ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, good morning! I begin the continuation of the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Ivan Kebrič, Janez Janša, Bojan Kontič from 3 p.m. on, Valentin Pohorec, Andrej Fabjan, Alojz Peterle, Flowers Zalokar Orazem, Jožef Špindler and Davorin Terčon from 1 p.m. We're moving to 17. Dot of the Daily Order - Third Commentary Proposal of the Law on Divinity and Hunting. For the third reading, the draft law was drafted by a group of Members with first-signed Anton Anderlic. I give the text first to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the bill. Any of the candidates want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to representatives of the government, whom I welcome very well on this occasion. Mr. Sterling, will you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Members and honourable Members! In the first reading, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considered that the law was suitable for further consideration in Parliament, and thus, in the second and third readings of the K Law, there are no amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u3	Thank you very much. On the proposal for a law in its entirety - I would like to stress this in particular, in its entirety - I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Once again, I would like to ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups, because today we have a debate on individual articles to save the debate on individual articles for articles. Now it is only a discussion of the whole text of the law. So, let's do it in a row. First of all, Mr Sok, Nova Slovenija has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u4	Honourable Presidents, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, fellow Members and fellow Members! As regards the opposition party of New Slovenia, of course, the fundamental dilemmas and reservations to this law remain the same as they were at first reading, and the substantive proposal of this law has not changed significantly until the third reading. The basic dilemma enshrined in this law is that the state has declared wild game to be state property. By doing so, it has taken the right to own, real game, food and pasture on private agricultural land and forests, of course, even in addition to its own, while in fact the owners of agricultural land and forests are completely alienated and have no real function in this bill or in the implementation of the bill itself. Even so far, even if they met all the conditions laid down in this law, hunting rights cannot be granted to them because the law provided for the granting of hunting rights only to legal persons. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that this is an ecclatic violation of Article 33 of the Constitution, the Slovenian Constitution, which protects private property. Unfortunately, this law does not follow. We are aware that the systems of hunting and farming for game in the European Union countries have been different in their resolution, that the solution is left to individual countries in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. Thus, the Member States of the European Union know the so-called dominant system, which is the ownership of the agricultural land and the forests, and sometimes the regional one, are said to be wild and hunting rights of the country, or combined. If we look at the countries in our neighbourhood and in Central Europe, where the Republic of Slovenia undoubtedly belongs, then we can see that in all these countries hunting rights are bound by the law on the right to property of agricultural land and forests. The State has taken the right to determine the boundaries of management areas, namely government will do so, and to determine and grant fishing concessions, all together on the basis of a proposal for a forest law. Under this law, the Institute of Forests has been given tremendous powers, and unfortunately we find that not enough financial resources are available. Certain workers who are currently employed in special breeding hunting grounds will also be transferred to the Forest Administration. Regrettably, even for those who will move into a working relationship with the forest office, the law itself does not provide for financial resources. Coalition parties, first of all LDS and, second of all, the combined list has been providing funding for the operation of the ECO-0 subsidy facility for two or three years now, but of course it will not go any further, especially if the new tax reform announced by Finance Minister Marble is to be implemented, which says that by 2007 ECO-0 subsidies in the Republic of Slovenia must be equal to the amount of subsidies in the Member States of the European Union. In general, the financial consequences of this law are unpredictable, and the financial consequences of this law are not defined anywhere in the law, although of course the law imposes in its Article 56 the duty of the State to take care of possible purchases of agricultural land in the areas of the custodian hunting grounds or hunting grounds with special purpose. The only thing that is consistently used in this law is a man and a woman. In other words, the chairman said that in this general debate, we should not touch individual articles, but I should be allowed to read paragraph 56 of this article as to what the use of male and female sex in this law would look like. He says: 'The Commission for the determination of the amount of damage in agricultural and forestry cultures shall be composed', please note, 'the President, the President or his deputy, his deputy and two members, two members or their deputies, their deputies, their deputies. One member, a member of the commission and his/her, his/her deputy, the deputy shall be qualified for the agricultural profession, the other, the other member, the member and his/her member, and his/her deputy for the forestry and hunting profession." Not to mention how many times in this law the words "minister, minister, hunter, hunter" appear in both directions and so on. So, through this law, even after a formal salary, it loses some credibility, of course, just as it was accepted with such haste, it is clear that something else, such as it is before us, could not have occurred. The applicants say and claim that they can be representatives of farmers, the real owners of agricultural land and forests and local communities can participate through the institution in the establishment of hunting areas and in hunting plans. Of course, it is necessary to distinguish between what it means to cooperate and to give some opinions or what it means to make a real decision. So, through an institution that has a kind of internal pluralized world of the institution, of course, in Nova Slovenija we are confident that it will not be possible to influence in any way the owners of agricultural land and forests in the implementation of this law and in the determination of hunting areas, nor hunting plans. The news in this law is that the State will grant concessions under this law and that beneficiaries will have to pay concessions to the State, ranging from 10 to 50% of the game sold. I hope to state today that the majority of hunting families will have nothing from this concession, because when they deduct management costs, when they deduct all those costs they have invested in the hunting ground, then, of course, there will be nothing left for the concession state. Otherwise, as I have understood by the President of the Hunting Union of Slovenia, this concession may also be dealt with by the work put forward, although the law itself does not provide for it. The compensation shall be in particular Article 53. Until compensation, an extremely complex procedure has been enacted. However, the law implies that those who might want to enforce compensation must first take care of their property by protecting it. Thus, this law literally imposes on the owners of agricultural land and forests, at least the smaller ones, to fence their parcels. And of course, in the area where I come from alone, at least in orchards and vineyards, it has been happening for many years. It is because the relationship between the damage and the compensation paid is significantly too low. In the debate, we pointed out where solutions could be. I don't want to repeat them in the third reading today. I would conclude by saying that this law is not only bad, I hope that this law will bring many conflicts, on the one hand between the owners of agricultural land and forests and, on the other hand, among the hunting organisations, hunting societies, which will only be one time later, I think that in the very near future, the law, as it is written, is bad because it has essentially excluded from the decision-making procedures of the owner of agricultural land and forests. This will be a conflict, for this law is a law that could be labeled as a law that bears a conflict of interest. However, in the end, I can only congratulate the proponents - they have passed, I hope, revolutionary law in the field of hunting and hunting rights, and they have passed a new law on what we already have today, only that they have renamed social property into state property. They have completely bypassed the Slovenian Constitution, which gives the right to private property, and perhaps when this law enters into force when it is adopted, the LDS will also be able to name itself as the hunting family of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u5	Thank you. Mr. Bogomir Vnučec, Party of Young Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u7	Can I please have some peace?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u8	In the Young Slovenia Party, we are of the view that all measures in the field of hunting regulation must be directed in the direction of humane treatment of animals, taking into account the pressures and damage to forest owners and the agricultural areas, local communities and people who are understandably savages, cause damage. Otherwise, it should be stressed that what people call damage to food animals, is a source of survival that is becoming less and less severe in their living environment. The positive economic effects of the exploitation of nature, collected by the country in the form of taxes and various contributions to farmers, to the forest economy, to tourism, to the economy in general, to housing and other areas where animals have been taken up recently, are enormous. It is therefore very banal that the country, as the only source of compensation for this damage, which is being caused by wild game in their living environment, is now looking for in their extermination. In our view, it is the responsibility of the State to manage nature in a responsible and sustainable manner, not to seek resources based on animal extermination through partial solutions. While the funds it raises well for each intervention in nature, by taxation of agricultural, tourism and all other activities in the field of animal life, it spends for other purposes. According to the Young Slovenia Party, hunting can be justified by regulating the natural balance between species, which, as in a number of other areas, has been disrupted by no one but man. In the Young Slovenia Party, we agree that the law specifies that the game is owned by the country, which must not mean that the country as the owner of the game can treat it as its farm and can by allowing the shells of a patch of financial deficit. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we are aware that hunting for the sky is only needed when society eliminates the negative effects on life and the existence of savagery, then nature, as in the past millions of years, will itself be an effective and prudent hunter. Until then, it will be necessary, above all, to provide systemic legal solutions to ensure that this ideal is also achieved. The bill is therefore a step in this direction, according to the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, and we will also support it. Legislators should, however, represent themselves in the adoption of the law as lawyers for wildlings who cannot defend themselves in the process of regulating its living environment and human intervention. Lawyers represent the interests of the client. How successful we have done this ourselves, we will be able to evaluate after the law has been enacted and hope that we will not regret it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u9	Mr. Franz Sušnik, Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u10	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen! The proposal for a law on savagery and hunting is undoubtedly a very important material that will regulate and regulate the way our country enjoys a good part of our country and therefore has our respective attention. We strongly oppose the way this marriage proposal has come about. We do not agree with the fact that the Secretariat, which should play a more active role in the preparation and handling of this bill, has in this case played a second, lateral role, showing, last but not least, the relationship of the parties to the ruling coalition to deal with this issue, to deal with a problem that concerns a large part of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support the basic principles of the Wildlife and Hunting Act. I would like to say once again loudly and clearly that we agree with the efforts to preserve, protect and sustain the free use of wild animals and support such regulation of this, undoubtedly important area, which will ensure the smooth implementation of the eco-social and economic function of the game in relation to its wider living space. We also support the principle stated by the proposaler that the game is state property and that hunting rights belong to the Republic of Slovenia. We also agree and support with the law a prescribed way of transferring hunting rights to qualified hunting families under the conditions and in the manner set out in this proposal. However, we strongly oppose the conservation of so-called hunting grounds with a special purpose, state hunting grounds, which the applicant further excuses with the aim of maintaining and maintaining important habitats of wild game species and endangered species. I think that this is contradictory to the actual situation in the so-called state-of-the-art hunts and in total contravention of what is actually happening in these fisheries. We are even more resolutely opposed to the establishment of new hunting grounds, which the law also foresees and allows for new hunting grounds of particular importance in Article 7. At least the practice and the complications and the handling of game in such national fisheries all the more than justify the stated good purpose of the applicants by setting up such hunting grounds. It is precisely because of the incomprehensible insistence on the reenactment of specific hunting sites by coalition parties in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we will not support the law on savagery and hunting, because we are convinced that by reenacting specific hunting sites, the basic concept of the law that we support is conceived or broken to such an extent that we cannot support the law as a whole and is totally unacceptable to our parliamentary group. Persistence on fishing grounds of particular importance is also incomprehensible in the face of the public financial crisis that we are facing in the Republic of Slovenia, as it will be necessary to provide substantial budgetary resources for the purchase of social property in various forms and types of national hunting grounds, hunting grounds and, last but not least, wages for employed people there. At the same time, insisting on special fishing means limiting the hunting activities of our citizens of hunters in areas where special hunting grounds lie. This insistence on specific fisheries also limits the priority right of the land owner and the forest to enforce its ownership right in the form of priority rights and priority participation within this hunting family through the provisions of this law in the context of the hunting family. Look at the 270,000, close to 300,000 hectares of these state hunting grounds, which are completely controversial and which are the biggest obstacle and the biggest obstacle to bringing this law to life and being a good basis for sustainable wildlife management. Nevertheless, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we support and agree with the management of game within large and closed hunting areas and only exclusively in fisheries less than 2,000 hectares. However, we are in no way satisfied with the participation of landowners and, above all, local communities in the design of hunting areas, in the design of hunting grounds and in the planning of wildlife management. In accordance with Article 13 of this legislative proposal, it is stated that the participation of the Slovenian Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, in which the owners of agricultural land and forests are united, and of the local communities in the preparation of long-term and annual plans for hunting areas and annual hunting plans, is considered that this, in such a manner, is not sufficient guarantee for the owners of agricultural land and forests, and for the owners of hunting grounds and local communities to correct the situation, so that the law is appropriate and that this law gives sufficient emphasis and sufficient role to owners of agricultural land and forests. This is justified by the fact that it is necessary, in such a way, to implement the role of both landowners and local communities, in particular in areas where we are already facing problems related to the excessive stock of game, namely deer, wild pigs and large animals. We are of the opinion that, as I have already said, we should have a greater role and importance in the design of hunting areas as well as in the design of hunting grounds, especially in the award of concessions, in the planning and production of hunting plans for local communities, municipalities and land owners. This is another matter which is why we will not support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are also opposed to the proposed method of awarding concessions as defined in Article 26 of the proposal for a law on game and hunting. We strongly advocate and believe that it must have priority in obtaining the concession of a hunting family, a hunting organisation whose majority members are owners of land and forests in the hunting zone or have permanent residence in the hunting zone. If this is not the case, we stress that the principle that you have tried to include in this proposal will be once again violated, the principle that the owners of agricultural land and forests have the right to participate within the hunting family and thus to have the right to engage in hunting activities as a priority. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not understand the insistence of the applicants and the authors of this hunting legislation on a proposal that does not take into account such an exercise of priority or the right to grant concessions and, together with the continued existence and even the spread of so-called state fishing grounds, such a way of awarding concessions is in any way exercised by some other method of fishing as a privilege from the past. We are also strongly opposed to the formulation and distribution of the concession fee thus collected. For our party, it is totally unacceptable for the Slovenian Democratic Party to provide for the fifth indent of Article 29, which is too loose, allows for too much confusion and willfulness in the formulation of the concession fee. In addition to the annual revenue from the sale of game, the levy does not include confiscated and sold trophies. I think that this issue is crucial and that the fact that the trophies are not included in the concession fee has essentially affected the fact that these concession fees will be collected so little that they will not cover the basic costs that the State will have during the production of the hunting plans through the public forestry service. However, especially for the Slovenian Democratic Party, the way in which these concession fees are distributed is controversial. I mentioned earlier that we are afraid that this concession fee will not be enough. On the other hand, the way we pay the burden of agricultural land and forests through the wild is completely controversial, which we believe should come into the hands of the owners of agricultural land and forests. In view of the practice that we have been present in the drafting of the legislative proposal, we cannot in any way believe that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, in cooperation with the Institute for Forests and the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia, will be allowed to prepare such a way of dividing the concession fee that would satisfy the owners of agricultural land and forests, which would, lastly, allow for some normal management of the game in the long term, in particular, eliminate the increasingly obvious conflicts between owners of agricultural land and forests and hunters, conflicts which, in our opinion, will only be deepened and extended to the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia and, in the long term, prevent the hunting activities of our citizens. The Slovenian Democratic Party is also subject to these restrictions on environmental interventions of game. In our belief, they unduly and excessively restrict the use of agricultural land and forests. Completely inappropriate and left to operators is also the way to determine and pay the amount of compensation for the damage caused by the game. In our opinion, however, the fact that the state has taken on excessive damage has also been the result of wildlings on border hunting grounds. I think that this should be the matter, in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, of the manager of the hunting grounds and should not burden the state budget. I would like to point out once again that, in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we could satisfactorily resolve the problem of agricultural land owners and their desire to engage in hunting with the priority membership of agricultural land owners who have more than 15 hectares of forest or agricultural land in hunting families, so that these members should not be charged with any accession. However, this principle is completely undermined by the new application and the possibility of a new spread of state-owned fisheries that are most controversial for us. It is already happening that entire hunting families are unable to hunt, that members of these hunting families cannot engage in hunting because of the fact that in their areas they have legal hunting for a particular purpose, state hunting grounds. Well, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also expect that you will also eliminate such inconsistencies as in the 77th Article, which sanctions the owner of a cat that moves freely in nature. But it's not the only issue in this marriage, but it's very strange, to say the least. In view of the amendments tabled, it is not possible to expect the basic concept of the law to change to the extent that it is supported by the articles still open during the third reading. I therefore stress once again that, in particular, due to the application of the possibility of establishing new hunting grounds with a particular meaning or state hunting grounds and due to the insufficient role of the owners of agricultural land and forests and of the local communities in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will oppose the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potč has the word, the United List.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The first fundamental issue that we started in the drafting of this law, and which was also strongly present in the public, was whether or not the game remained state property or, as some wanted it to become, because it had not so far been owned by anyone or that it belonged to the owner of the forest during life and if it had been removed even when it was found on its land. And another such fundamental question was whether wild game as a national property should be managed by hunting organisations that are qualified to carry out these tasks, because hunters must have a hunting test, and they are and will have to take care of game and all the incomes of the hunting family in the future, or, like other requirements, start with hunting management of landowners. I would like to point out that these fundamental issues have been clarified in many ways in time since the law was submitted in the public domain. I would like to say that the vast majority of the public have confirmed that it is right that the game remains state property and is managed through hunting organisations; that it is understood that it is also a matter of majority interest for minority forest and land owners, and therefore that they have different owners, only a smaller circle of large owners, who would like to obtain the right to hunt, in order to realize it primarily through their economic interests, but not through the social and natural security function of the property, which must be fully respected in any case. Indeed, there has been a lot of demagogies about this, but we are still convinced that it is right that the game must remain state property, that the State must have the right to grant concessions, that the first priority beneficiaries of the concession must be the hunting organisation, which is organised in a way that is prepared and trained to care for game. As a result, we also expect that some of the lonely requirements that remain so that, in addition to hunting families, operators can also be natural persons, cannot be accepted. Another such important issue that was present was the role of local communities. We would like to point out that we are aware of the need for the local community to participate in, say, the programming of hunting and hunting planning. However, it is not possible and not in any other area where we have it, to demand that it has and gives its consent. There are too many different and conflicting interests here, many of which would involve many local communities, so I think that the requirement for the full cooperation of local communities is justified and guaranteed by law, but it would probably be unacceptable. As a third question, we are asked the question of the possibility that we still have hunting grounds with special purpose and the questions raised in this regard. To say that we want to spread them is probably not true. Claiming that they remain due to a particular type and privileges of catch, it's probably not true. It is true that they exist due to the care and protection of specific animal species. And it is true that it will be possible and absolutely necessary for a State, a government on behalf of a State to re-evaluate whether all is necessary or necessary to the extent to which the territory is now defined, and whether it is precisely these territories to narrow down so that the organisation of a hunting organisation can also be possible in each area, and at least that is what marks this issue of specific hunting grounds. It is also right for our opinion to maintain the priority order for the award of concessions, as it is now established, because it means that owners have the possibility of joining hunting families that have already been successful in a particular area and in accordance with the tasks they have had to perform their functions, but not that there are artificial, violent reorganisations that will certainly not be beneficial. Finally, we believe that it is right to re-examine one of the issues that is not the most important, but which has aroused considerable attention in the public, this is a question of falconing as a species and as a form of hunting. We believe it is right that, in view of the feedback that this issue has had at the time of the second to third reading, it is useful to review this possibility again, so we have tabled an amendment in this direction, not with the desire that any activity of non-hunting falconers would be banned, stopped, but that it would really be advisable to consider whether the type of hunting as a falcon with the law would be reinstated, whether it would be more beneficial, as advocates argue, whether it would have had negative consequences, as the Ministry of Environment and Space, many agencies and many civil society organisations that have warned us about this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word is given by Franci Rokavec, Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Government representatives! Messengers and Members! In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposed laws will impose a very large responsibility for the life of the new law on savagery and hunting. In fact, it is wise policy to know and be able to resolve conflicts, not vice versa, to even contribute to the emergence of new conflicts in society with its solutions. And the law in question is going in an unwelcome direction. Instead of finding solutions between the two key entities, the Hunting Union of Slovenia and the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia, only one of the already mentioned entities is trying to be accommodated by a majority vote in Parliament. Let me reiterate that in the Slovenian People's Party there was never a dilemma as to whether the game was state property. However, we have always stressed the need to find appropriate solutions that will help to ensure that both farmers and hunters in co-existence with the country can find the best solutions to ensure the optimum balance of the wild stock in nature. As a result, in the SLS Group, we stress that, in order to ensure this objective, it is not a good solution to the ultimatum, but rather to find appropriate solutions, as well as for the cost of a time-consuming agreement. In most of the legal elements, the content of the law in the third reading is already laid down and cannot be changed in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. However, we have tabled several amendments in the Group of Members, which mainly address issues relating to ownership, planning hunting plans, and compensation issues. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the spirit of this law is non-European in the definition of property, in particular in the design of specific hunting grounds. We find it constitutionally controversial, with Article 33 of the Constitution. It is unacceptable that the State will not ask me anything or you of the land owner concerned in the fisheries with the status of special hunting grounds, whether it can expose the specific status of the fishing area on its land. I also stress that the current arrangements for planning, hunting plans and hunting plans are too lax, since the word for participation in the agri-agricultural chamber in these processes can be understood as informal notices. That is why we have also prepared an additional solution for the third reading within the Group of Members. In view of the need to identify and establish a method of coordination between key planning and fisheries management entities in this area. The chapter of compensation is very poorly regulated because it leaves arrangements with the law, which is unacceptable, since it has already been the most conflicted area in relation to landowners - hunters or hunting organisations. Therefore, it is totally unacceptable from the legislator that he does not explicitly regulate this area in the law itself, which he has laid down and laid down in the existing law. The law should lay down, on a basic basis, that the operator is obliged to protect agricultural land rather than vice versa. In fact, since the simple logic of life says that the owner of an animal must protect his land from damage on neighbouring lands or simply, the breeder of an animal must ensure that the animal grazes on its lawns, not its neighbors. No, the Wildlife and Hunting Act is different. The country is the owner of the game and the owner of the private land is obliged to do everything to protect the land. Let me just quote what the second paragraph of Article 53 says about the prevention of harm. "The holders of the agricultural and forestry land on which the fishing is situated are obliged to use the appropriate protective equipment provided to them by the operator of the fishing vessel and to implement other prescribed measures to prevent damage to the wild." I would say wrong to the world, but this is only possible in one of the 25 future countries of the European Union, on an island that could even be called the Socialist Republic of Slovenia. This provision is unacceptable for the Slovenian People's Party as it brings a new conflict situation to life. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are outraged that the authors of this law have prepared a concept whereby the government will adopt the regulations, but its implementation will be imposed on the Ministry of Agriculture. We had a nice opportunity to see at the beginning of the birth of this law in Parliament, how it is served, the Ministry of the Environment will be the one that will also, in the government, establish all the mechanisms and means of deciding that this will be according to its concept, and the Ministry of Agriculture will, of course, implement the law. On the other hand, the budget money should also be distributed for damage after the game, and Minister Marble should, of course, also tax this income with income, which will, of course, only be income to compensate for the damage actually done without need. End if I finish. However, this is not the worst; the worst is that the method of ruling is increasingly being applied for the price of unilateral decisions, which means that one group is better placed at the expense of the other. Colleagues of LDS, the United List and DeSUS, I can honestly tell you, you have done a bad job in this project and we will not support such a law in the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The text is by the representative of DeSUS. Mr. Cheligoy? He won't. Good. The position of liberal democracy will be presented by Mrs Lidija Majnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u16	Dear Mr President, representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! The Wildlife and Hunting Act will, of course, be supported by the Liberal Democracy Club. The basic solutions are those we support and have also been written as proponents in Article 1 of the Act. We support wildlife management, which includes planning, conservation, sustainable management and monitoring of wildlife conditions and ways of implementing them. We are committed to both wildlife management, which ensures the ecological, social and economic functions of the game and its living space, and in particular, as we have written down, the conservation and protection of wildlife as a natural resource, the conservation and enhancement of biological and landscape diversity and the stability of living societies, the prevention and recovery of damage from and to wildlife and the sustainable management of wildlife. Since the introduction, apart from the fundamental principles, the law has undergone many amendments. In the view of the Club, it is now better, since we have coordinated it with the various representatives of the public concerned and have also taken into account the many comments we have been able to adopt in the second reading with the amendments. For the third reading, we have only a few details left to discuss in today's debate. In view of the many responses, it is likely that there will be quite a few debates between sections 43 and 44 of the law and the amendments that have been tabled. These are the articles on hunting and falconing, and the article on fishing bans. If I can point out that we have different opinions in the Liberal Democracy Club and that we will vote in this way, we can vote in the prohibition of hunting, i.e. at the point where the hunting area is not allowed, I say that we will support the amendment in the parliamentary club, because although the basic activity of the law would be almost impossible, it is hunting. The safety of people and property is preserved in other articles, even in the 43rd, which says that hunting should not be carried out in such a way as to endanger human life or health. In the media, it has been claimed in recent days that the law is made according to the size of the hunters, not by the size of the owners. We answer this in the House of Liberal Democracy with the following: the law is made according to the measure of mountaineers, environmentalists, tourists, even hunters, made according to the measure of citizens and citizens, by the measure of people who want free forests without barriers and unnecessary restrictions. We will support the law in the House of Members of the Liberal Democracy Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Many were said, many were expressed, many objections, doubts, different opinions on individual articles and on the whole law. In the Slovenian National Party, we examined the law and found the essence of this law on the economic management of wildlife and its living space, which is essential. In the Slovenian National Party, we have found that this law allows for the equal integration of all citizens in the implementation of natural and hunting activities. This is the essence, according to the Slovenian National Party. If we continue with the problem that is and will most likely be discussed, we are not in favour of this in the Slovenian National Party, we are not in favour of crushing the fisheries. After all, what does an animal know about the land or whose land it is on or whose area it is. Nature is the one that guides animals, and nature is the one that requires a balanced ecological system, and that is the essence of our lives. If I were to caricose, how would I read, if a private owner wrote a "prohibited passage through private land," I don't know, "grains, deer and people"? [[Back-up advertising.]] I'm sorry, I listened to you, gentlemen, it's not lame. It doesn't suck. The law discusses whether state property or whether it will be private property in the private area. And if I'm talking about it, so I'm talking about the law and I'm not talking nonsense, I'm not talking about cars. That's just how we feel. This is how we think in the Slovenian National Party, and this is how we evaluate. Because, last but not least, it's not lame! - I, as the owner of an animal's land, attract them in one way or another and then shoot them nicely until they're gone. That's just how it is. We estimate, in the Slovenian National Party, that despite all the debates and debates and many additions, the law actually provides the legal basis for the management of wildlife and its living space. I will also respect the will and recommendation, the guidance of the Vice-President, and I will not appoint an exact article, but I will talk about another content that is important to the Slovenian National Party and is an integral part of the law if it is now a general debate. This is our view that there has been a major error in the declaration of the use of firearms, which prohibits the hunter from using semi-automatic weapons because the charger can be charged with more than two rounds, but more than two bullets should not be charged. On this mistake, we find that many of the weaknesses of the law - making wise men are not just those of the bench. But, as I said, we will support the law in the Slovenian National Party. We expect that a proposal for amendments to the law on at least the question raised will be prepared in a short time. And even when these changes come, of course, we will support the marriage. Once again, because of the basic position of the Slovenian National Party that it is a matter of sonar management, it is a matter of maintaining the ecological system and ensuring equal integration of all [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and hunting activities and caring and responsible for our common life development. [[...]] Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. A full discussion is under way on the proposal for a law. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to discuss this, let me remind you once again about the law in its entirety. Because then we have 13 articles that we will specifically discuss so that we do not waste time. Good. So the whole law will be discussed first by Mr Aloise Sok. He won't. Mr. Anderlich? Not at all. Mr. Petty Officer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. On my part, may I have a word with you about this marriage? So, to this general debate. I'm sure it's necessary for the law to be adopted. But in a way of balance. We have made this clear several times in the New Slovenia Group, but of course also taking into account the constitutional rights that are guaranteed. There's property among them. The possibility of using property can also be limited, and all, including the amendments, our debate went in this direction. Why not also consider property as a starting point in the regulation of hunting grounds, that owners have the right to have the right, regardless of how large they are, to form hunting grounds also by means of their association or their authentic interest to transfer to the local community, and thus, in some way, to subsidiaryally form hunting grounds and contribute to balance. If the owners are completely eliminated, there will be a serious conflict. The conflict of ownership and, on the other hand, wild animals which are defined as state property. Why not improve this balance and coherence? As soon as we define property as state property, a compensation mechanism will be established. He'll have to, despite maybe opposition. This is going to give birth to a lot of conflicts. I would also like to define what kind of city the local communities have in designing a strategy for hunting, for feeding grounds and the like. Now we have a forest facility that manages it. We have some problems with this industrial feeding of animals. This has become truly industrial. Why do I call it industrial? Because there are settlements nearby, which is poorly designed and leads to unnatural feeding. Another mechanism is established that these are indeed true breeding sites, not a natural biotope for wild animals, where natural selection would also take place. Then there is the behavior of individuals in these areas when they feed wild animals. For example, in the Loške brook bear and then, of course, we have problems with compliance and also with changing the nature of animal behavior, that they are not real anymore, but they are changing. Animals should create a biological balance. The first founder of hunting societies or hunting society was Mr Lovrenčič, this is Sodražan, from there he is home like me. Of course he doesn't live anymore because it's been 100, 150 years. He said then, hunting is an important thing, but we don't take it the way it's gonna be fun and some looting. So in these ways, we have to avoid these plans or these principles. That's what hunting law is supposed to do. It is intended to take account of the owners, to take into account the State interest in maintaining animal balance, to maintain their natural characteristics without changing, including by way of feeding or hunting, in order to make it a real biotope. If there was also consistency in the design of hunting sites by owners, it would also be much easier to formulate a policy of compensation for animal damage. However, as this is not the case, the conflicts will increase. And God protect us from such laws that cause conflict. Laws must be such that conflicts are reduced if they are not eliminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Now I have to go after that list. Some of my colleagues aren't here, so I have to go straight. Mr. Jože Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! I am confident that today we will adopt a new law on savagery and hunting, which will replace the current law on protection, cultivation and hunting for game, which is already quite old, as it comes out of 1976 or with an amendment from 1986. The truth of the matter is that this old marriage was not so bad in its original purpose or was not at all bad. This is also demonstrated by the situation in Slovenian forests, the stock of animals, the farming measures that have been implemented throughout this period, as well as the co-naturality of forest management. However, the new constitution and some of the facts that we have recorded in Slovenia alone also through laws governing hunting in its specific way, such as the Forest Act, the Nature Protection Act and some other regulations issued by ministries, have caused enough reasons to produce a completely new law, but also, of course, on the basis of established traditions and ways in force in Slovenia over the last 50 to 60 years. I estimate that the objectives of the law, which were defined by compliance with constitutional regulation, with new professional views or knowledge, by regulating the confusion in legislation, by complying with other rules, are large enough for this law to be adopted. The principles on the basis of which the law is prepared and which focus on nature conservation, sustainable use and ecological, social and economic use of game, and, of course, on the principle that the present social wealth that we still have in hunting in Slovenia, despite the fact that we have been strong for decades in the new constitutional regime, speak of the need for this law to be adopted. I am convinced that the principle of turning social property into state property by this law, as regards game and, of course, the property of present hunting grounds with special purposes, speaks of us being on the right track. Every time in this House, even years ago, we changed the social property that is intended for all citizens and citizens, we generally decided that this social property would become state property. Finally, agricultural land owned by social enterprises has become state-owned. With them, the masters, on behalf of the State of the Republic of Slovenia, of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests. This also applies to forests. In such a state it is natural, of course, to become savages of state ownership, that the issue of hunting rights is on the side of the state. However, management will be entrusted under this law, both on the one side of the forest office and on the other, of course, to hunting organisations and the relations of hunting families. In fact, it's very similar to the arrangement now. As regards the law in the third reading, I believe that particular concern must be given to the facts that occurred in the second reading, namely that the principle has been adopted or requires that the prohibition of fishing be closer than 250 metres from housing, settlements or rail and other transport communications. This principle, of course, is kind of cute. At the same time, it can significantly undermine the concept of a law that says that hunting is not supposed to be less than 2,000 hectares. The fact that Slovenia is relatively sparsely populated or has large areas, in particular hunting areas with scattered habitats, suggests that if this principle were to be enforced in the law at the end of the year, it would be very difficult to form fisheries and take this 2,000 hectares into account. More. The existing fisheries will have a problem because they do not have 2,000 hectares today. That is why I think it would be right for us to accept, or at least for a magnetogram, the interpretation that it will be possible, in accordance with Article 8(2), to recognise, when defining the catch on the basis of the new law, those fisheries which are now large, say 1960 hectares, which we have at this moment in Slovenia. The lawmakers have stated that this can also be done in accordance with this 2nd point. Another feature that we have adopted in the second reading would be worth talking about. The amendment has also been tabled on this subject. This is a falcon for which there have actually been a lot of debates in Slovenia. On the one hand, those who support this type of hunting, and on the other, especially those who oppose it. I personally assess that this is not such an important part of the law that this part is crucial to its adoption. I also believe that if this is adopted, as was the case with the second reading amendment, this will be adopted with scrutiny, by means of sub-legislative rules, also this type of hunting, which is in some ways marginal to the comprehensive law, that it will also be acceptable. Whatever the case, my fellow Member, Mr Beumann, has spoken to the bench. It will probably be his turn to clarify his views, but I estimate that with these corrections we will be able to adopt the law and provide a good basis for the further development of hunting in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrey Bajuk. No, no, no. Yes, Mr. Beumann, now it's your turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. It's true, I'm the very opposite of falcons, and I'm going to talk about falconing. However, since I wish to respect your recommendation that we speak only of the law in its entirety, I will save the debate on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I'd like to say a few more words about the marriage. In fact, what I said is on behalf of the Group of Members. And part of, of course, my point of view. I don't think this law, which is now in the third reading, will bring any good. Nothing good about it, especially because it's not balanced. Since it is not balanced because not all entities, all the factors involved in this game and hunting process, are treated in an equal manner. In particular, I have in mind 350,000 here and several other owners of agricultural land and forests who, according to the proposer, do not deserve or deserve proper treatment in this proposal. For this reason, I am deeply convinced that there will be serious conflicts in the implementation of this law, which will seriously endanger the efforts of the country, the efforts of our community to preserve this wealth, which the savages undoubtedly represent. It has to be said that, I will say, this privileged approach to hunting, which is enshrined in the old 1976 hunting law, is practically continuing without taking into account any changes in the social system, without taking into account the property it has received, I am sure of that, so we have not last written into the constitution, any other application and weight. What's going on? The owners of agricultural land and forests have begun to think that it is not necessary for everything to remain the way it was. They started to think about the rights that, as owners of agricultural land and forests, last but not least, hunting grounds, go to them. As long as we haven't opened this thing up, because of, I'm going to say, some self-assuredness that was inherent to our people in the past system, it's the way it went. Now it will begin, and I am deeply convinced, that the hunters who carry out hunting activities in the framework of hunting families will be disturbed or disabled by the conflict resulting from the irregular situation. Look, this is very irresponsible, I'll say, an adventurous approach to solving this problem, which further deepens, such an amendment as an amendment that prohibited hunting within a 250-metre radius around a residential facility or a public area. It's kind of, I'll say, stupidity, which I've supported myself to point out all the ways of this marriage. If you have carefully read this amendment and have thought about what it means to hunt in Central Slovenia, then you can clearly see that the practical hunting ground is no longer due to scattered settlement, because of the cunning of hunting grounds with all public roads and communications. And what's going to happen? As a result, there will be an even greater discrepancy between the wild stock and the resulting damage to areas with limited farming conditions, where both the country and the local community have serious difficulties in ensuring orderliness, I will say that we will ensure the communal function that agriculture would have in these areas. See, one of the articles of the law even states that it is forbidden to embellish baskets and lawns in forest areas. On the one hand, it is prohibited, on the other hand, to plan a shooting, such a way of preparing hunting and breeding plans that tolerate an abnormally high stock of wild boar, an abnormally high stock of turds, which has been happening to us since 1993 since the planned establishment, since the hunting families have no impact on the shooting, on the plan. It will happen that those meadows, these baskets will certainly heal because, even in last spring, this spring and this fall, they will be artificially fed, artificially maintained by wild pigs - this is primarily the responsibility of the forest plant - to an abnormal extent, resulting in lack of space causing damage to the agricultural areas in the areas themselves, in the populated areas, the valleys along the highway, that I am not saying that they have destroyed and destroyed all the baskets that are in more lying areas. All of this went together in connection with drought and these things. You know, this conflict that I am looking forward to with the implementation of this law will be such that the management entrusted to the hunting family will be virtually impossible. What will you do, then, by the Ministry or the proposers, with respect? What are you going to do with such hunting families that are already working in such a way that they are law-abiding, which does not allow for any active involvement of local communities and landowners in the preparation of hunting and breeding plans? What will happen or what will you do already this year, in 2003, with those hunting families that have bankrupted, who are no longer able to pay for the damage caused by the wild? Look, this is such an obvious breakthrough that will ultimately affect both the people who live there, but above all I think that this is a big blow for hunting organisations, for hunting families, because it will result in a limited and increasingly difficult hunting engagement of 22 000 and several other hunters who are united in the Hunting Union of Slovenia. In two, three articles, you wrote down what I think is good because we welcome that the owners of agricultural land and forests exercise their ownership right through the priority right to participate in a hunting family that receives a concession in an area where this owner has his property. That's all right and nice. This is also a way that we and I support. On the other hand, you have denied all of this by re-imposing, by re-imposing, even more, even with the possibility of spreading state-owned fisheries. Have you asked yourself, this is 300 thousand and a few hectares of state hunting grounds, how the constitutional right to participate, to engage in hunting or to have equality before the law for these hunters is violated, for these people from these areas, where the law makes it impossible to grant concessions to a hunting family in which people who want to take care of the nature they want to hunt, who, after all, would like to join. This social and social activity of hunting families is also important. We already have cases where this is the case and by the enforcement of state-owned hunting grounds we are in a situation where we continue to restrict this hunting right. That's another factor that's completely unacceptable to me, I'll say. I am confident that the owners of agricultural land, even announced, have done their utmost to use all legal means to ensure that this law is not enforced. I am also convinced that it is possible to find an agreement that a compromise can be found and that, in the essential elements of this law, our views on the essential elements of this law do not differ to the extent that we fail to reconcile the law in a later period to such an extent that it is balanced and, above all, acceptable to all those involved in this process of wildlife and hunting. Here you have neglected, to say the least, to put in a subordinate position 350 thousand owners of agricultural land and forests. No one can make it through that fact. I'm sure, given that these articles are closed too, there's nothing more to be done here. That's why I'm going to say I have such a negative attitude towards this marriage. I'm sure this marriage will bring no good. Especially because of the discrepancies I've said. However, in my opinion, this law has brought what is very good, and this is that people have begun to think about how to carry out the hunt. They started thinking. At the final stage, this reflection will also lead to solutions that will have to satisfy everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. This last debate was quite right for me. It makes sense to draw attention to some things, while some of the stories we hear about this law are so demagogic that I find it strange that such things can be produced. What do I mean? In the beginning, we did have two different concepts. The role of landowners, and on the other hand, for example, the owners of the hunting grounds in which the weight is now tilted. However, it is also likely that the advocates of the first option have found that the concession, which is supposed to be huge, is a lot of money to be shared by all 350 000 landowners, we are already finding that there will be nothing out of it. These concessions are nothing today. And there won't be many in the future. With this we promised what was not and never will be. Or at least it won't be for a while. The other part of the story refers to consents that try to apply everywhere. Of course, it is also an area where, with the consent of all 350 thousand owners, the formation of one, the other and the third fisheries would never have happened. It means that the story is crystallized in this direction, that probably at the time the supporters of another system had in mind 150 owners, large owners in that country. As this matter has completely faded, it is necessary to find a new area and create conflicts through the debate and presentation of this law, which contains deception, demagogism and lies at the end - that is the area of damage. I've dealt with the damage myself as much as you've all done in this room. [[Not today when it's full]] . When we try to solve these matters and incorporate them into marriage, people follow me and interpret the law in the way we heard it here today. To read a colleague, even from a coalition party, only one paragraph, which speaks of the duty of landowners, and to release all other paragraphs of this Article which speak of the obligations of others, and to release an article that speaks of the liability of operators of hunting grounds to the detriment of, and even of, the State. And, of course, that's how he follows me around Goriček, so is mine - I mean from a residential point of view - an agricultural chamber that reads the law in the same way - that landowners have to do everything, and no one in this country does anything. And it seems very fair to me when Comrade Sušnik points out that in some cases the country may be overprotecting or mediating damage. This is how we should present the matter. Those who are severely affected in the area of damage are also reacting in an emotional way and then accepting demagogies, deceptions, and lies; therefore, of course, they are not to blame for being harmed. In this way we give birth to new conflicts, which will take as long as the law does not test itself in reality. Some things may not be settled properly, but it seems to me better than the other alternative we have been born since 1993 than the law of Oman. Of course, consensus can be treated differently. We brought into law a chamber, a local community, or representatives of landowners. When we talk, say, about the hunting-growing area, which is quite a lot - what I know, 12 municipalities are in my case - and get a consensus on the establishment of this area and a plan for the management of a 12-community game and, I don't know, 5,000 owners, let me explain how this would work. We may not understand each other well or may not have understood each other well in these procedures. I don't think it's possible. However, I am of the opinion that landowners and local communities play an important role in planning and controlling the shooting and also in covering the damage. Today we are listening to how the damage is not sufficiently specified, but those who have demanded that more detailed definitions go out of the law. And we did it, now it's the opposite that it's not sufficiently specified. This means what I said at the outset, that this law obviously serves someone to produce conflicts and, of course, in politics, we know what the ultimate goal is. Perhaps even with the amendments, if they were accepted, it is foreseen, but we will not talk about the amendments in principle. Overriding the country's liability for damage was then the proposal of one of our group members that it was only border areas and damage to wild pigs and game. It's on the edge of the sword, that's what we have. And of course, this story is now shown in different ways, usually everything different than it is. If the law works, it seems to me that this matter is fairly resolved if it remains within these frameworks and that in this case the country will not be affected. At this point, however, we are dealing with hunting, which here is all the damage up to the recent cover until an extraordinary situation has arisen in Croatia and Italy. But that first concept of law, which disagrees with the present one, wanted to end this particular hunting ground and also this hunting ground, which has so far paid the country 25% of all damage in the country and in the highest proportion it pays damage in the part of Slovenia where the most damage is. It means that some things are unusually presented. The falconry may be a special article or amendment and does not show much talk about it at this time. As far as I'm concerned, hunting and wildlings are concerned because of the falconism that has been solved in one way or another, nothing will change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The debates are general. That'll work. Let's go in one order. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I know that virtually every word about the purpose and purpose of this law, as the authors of this law have imagined, is doomed to failure. Here, at the time of adoption of this law, it is ensured or a full mobilization has been made for its adoption in a specific direction, so that the bulldozer method prevails. In fact, it is futile to prevent, especially after the last debate, the authors of this law. They are not moved by the tears in the eyes of a farmer who tells us from television screens his distress and his horror over such solutions to this law, for it has so far been impossible to look to the future with some hope. She made it clear that she has already been a deprived member of this society, and yet here Mr Juban believes that it is shown differently than it really is about these damages. You claim that this farmer and many other cases that we have heard and seen have lied about lying when he speaks of being completely unjust personally, that he is a completely unjust entity in this machine that you imagined the authors of this law. I'm not surprised that it's written and that such a law will be passed. The law is crafty, crafty and perfidious. Consistency follows only the realization and fulfilment of the interests of the narrow groups within the hunting family and those behind them. It denies, however, I am firmly convinced, and makes the rights and possibilities of 20,000 Slovenian hunters worse. It's written for a narrow group and I'm not surprised. When I saw on the Committee on Agriculture that the President of the Hunting Association had called himself Chief Adviser to Judge Šubic, who had not written a judgment in the Elan case and then found out that he had been very actively involved in the drafting of this law, I was not surprised. I think the Slovenian public is aware of the interests of the law here and in fact it is. The law was written by the Barons of the Hunting Family of Slovenia, as defined by colleague Sok. For this reason, it could be said that, in fact, in Article 1, if they were transparent, they would write that this law governs the management of wild game and the management and management of land where wild game lives and survives. That would be appropriate to the truth. And it should also be written in the second paragraph of this Article instead of the third indent, where it says, "prevention and recovery of damage from and on the wild", where a link should be released to match the truth. This law regulates, as it is now written, the prevention of reparation. However, it regulates the prevention of damages. If these farmers, these landowners, knew, based on practice so far and based on what is in this law, that their right, which is protected, would not then see these tears in the eyes of this farmer and others. They are aware that they are so weak in this system that their interests, their rights are not viewed, their authorities do not respect them, so that this law does not in fact guarantee permanent management of game, but ensures permanent management of game by the hunting baron, and provides them with a permanent management of the financial effects of hunting, and allows them to have a permanent management of the privileges, such as the right to hunt, without any practical, practical obligations towards landowners and also to the state. This law is robbing the country, destroying property rights. I firmly believe that, on the basis of such a written law as I have already said, it places the vast majority of hunters in a significantly worse position. In my opinion, 20,000 hunters, as I said before, will essentially have the status of pursuers. This law does not provide that the privileged caste of hunters within the hunting union of Slovenia should contribute anything to its privileges from its own pocket. Since the trophies are not included in the concession fee, it is clear that the privileged hunting barons will still be financially rich to have great material benefits. That's what this law gives them. As already mentioned, I firmly believe that farmers will have to move out in many areas of Slovenia. As they did in Kočevsko due to the threat of wildlings, because the game had priority over man, because the farmer was not equal, so they will move out of parts of Gorička and Prekmurje, as we have seen, so they will have to move out of other parts of Slovenia, because economic existence will no longer be possible. For the law stipulates that the owner of the land is obliged to fence or protect its fields, its vineyards, I do not know what, the orchards, from the wild, means that agriculture, the survival of the population with agricultural activity is not primary. For you, the primary interests of this small group of privileged hunting barons are. I am also sure that these deprived citizens of Slovenia, who have been violated by basic constitutional rights, will try, as my colleague Sušnik said, to prevent the implementation of this law by all legal means. It is important to clearly warn the Slovenian public that this law is again forcing a referendum. You're blackmailing the referendum again. And this is one of the many cases this year. I know that there are other political objectives behind such tactics, which also makes you so unforgivable, so unresponsive to any argument that you could write a law that is balanced. The law on hunting is necessary, but it should be written by people who have otherwise demonstrated their commitment to the interests of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Chairman. I am closely following the discussions and I am aware that there are many colleagues here who are better acquainted with hunting than I know myself, and you are much better acquainted with agriculture than I know myself. However, allow me to say that the law before us, i.e. the proposal for a law on savagery and hunting, is a completely better law for me than it was before, because this law takes into account all the good that is before the law and adds systemic solutions to the management, planning and preservation of wildlife in our forests. Of course, some articles may not be well - written. One of these is for me the one about the proximity of the hunt, that is, hunting near residential settlements and houses. Whether the tolerance limit of 250 meters is the right one is, of course, a question. However, I think that, or that those who proposed this solution, we wanted to point out that hunting in the immediate vicinity of housing and settlements is dangerous, as well as that for many people who do not accept such violence, even unacceptable, it might also be necessary to consider and write down just that the use of firearms is close to the houses where people live, so it is necessary to arrange it properly and, of course, to write it down. However, what the colleague said earlier, the damage caused by the game will be reimbursed to the victims, regardless of the fact that it will be caused on the non-fishing surfaces. This is recorded in Articles 51, 57, 58 and 59. I think the drafters of this law have been attentive and have also taken into account such anomalies as may occur. That's why, of course, I'm going to support the marriage. In an article that talks about the tolerance limit, I'll be in touch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majnikov, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we are a list of debaters who want to discuss Mr Sok. [[...]] And then the proposer, if there's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, I didn't mean to come forward, but my colleague Juban challenged me, because in fact those who see this matter in a different way compare us to the demogogues and those who deceive the Slovenian public. I'd say we didn't file this marriage. And thus accusing the opposition and those in a position of different thinking, with demagogism, is inappropriate to the extreme. I need to confirm what he said. No, we don't understand each other. We're talking in this house, but we don't understand each other. No one has so far proposed that all owners of agricultural land should give any consent. It is known who represents the owners of agricultural land, where the owners of agricultural land are members. It is known what local communities are doing and the proposals were that representatives of agricultural land owners and local communities are more actively involved in this allocation of hunting rights. Nor does anyone oppose or deny the economic, social, ecological function of hunting. We also did not object to the state declaring wild game to be state property. Of course, the solution could also be different. We cannot agree, however, that you have absolutely bypassed the owners of agricultural land and forests. We can't agree with that. Here, this debate from the opposition, unlike the positions of Members, is fundamentally different. And the correct conclusion is from Comrade Juban. But it's not just his conclusion, it's what we've said since this concession this country will have nothing. She won't get anything. Experience teaches us. Nor is it true that only Mr Juban met with him, more than all of you together, I myself have done such a profession that I have faced damage in the field of hunting. [[...]] Not with the damage caused by the game itself, but through the damage caused, I don't know, due to the outbreak of infectious diseases in animals, then with the damage caused by protected species, wild animals. To tell you the truth, I was also shaken by the picture I saw, and from the very area where Mr Juban was very much elected, it was probably also his voter when I saw the tears of a woman's eyes, who realized that the savage caused her so much damage that in the end there was nothing left for her, which could help her to survive her family. With us, I'm going to say this, in Prlecia there's a saying, they say, so I'm going to say, "it's easier to get out of a dead motherfucker fart than out of the country's money." People know that, they know that. Mr Juban promised people how the country would deal with all these damage. And people know that he's lying to them about not getting anything, so these criticisms are emerging, and people are getting more organized. I wouldn't be surprised if they asked for another referendum. It is the opposition, however, who will require this to help them to exercise this right, if you, honourable gentlemen ruling, are right or wrong in the coalition. You force some principles, some new principles that don't contain real honest judgment, that's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u35	It's complicated. I'll make another exception, Mr. Kacin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for the opportunity, for the exception and the re-examination exam. With regard to this law, I think it is important to draw attention to three things. I'll talk about my personal experience. We have recently hosted gentlemen from abroad here, and I think the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture was also present at this discussion. Then we talked about hunting and tourism. In time, we discovered that we were talking about completely different concepts. When they talked about hunting and hunting, they had horsemen and tourism in front of their eyes and jumping obstacles to fox hunting. When they had to be specifically alerted that we had different forms and ways of hunting, they tried to answer questions as to whether they were allowed to shoot from the horse’s back or not. For this reason, it seems to me that it is important in this debate in particular to realise that the forms of hunting are traditional in certain cultural environments and that hunting has always been an integral part of the management of the animal fund and the maintenance of the balance in nature. It therefore seems to me that, on this occasion, some recognition and respect for hunters, hunting organisations, families who have been constantly concerned that the Wildlife Fund has been preserved, that some non-existent species have repopulated to appear again due to different environmental management and, in particular, different agricultural production. So it seems to me that there is a positive approach to hunting first. The other thing that seems important to me is, on the one hand, the development of our European civilisational view of the attitude towards nature, which in itself requires greater concern for the wild. In this regard, we have an immediate conflict of interest, on the one hand, the economic damage caused by the game because it is preserved and we want it, and on the other hand, the expectation and demands that these savages be sufficient and that we see it as many times as possible. I just want to add two things to which I want to define myself. One is this story about falconry, which now appears on the front and is made of flies, I think, by the elephant. Animals were always used in hunting. It does not occur to anyone to question the use of an elf in hunting for an elf, a fox or anything like that, but it is the exact same way of first training animals and then using animals. That is why it seems to me that we must, however rationally, define ourselves to this challenge and not just in advance from some principled ecological approaches to reject such traditional options that are in Europe - and Slovenia is part of Europe - have always existed. The second is the question of the distance between fire and fire in the residential environment. No one wants us to shoot a bear in Ljubljana, as it has already done, but if so, many would like it to be put to sleep, not put to death. But the question of distance, how far away from residential facilities is allowed to shoot, is a serious question. But we have to be radical here. Indeed, someone mentioned the referendum, but if we do not know how to organize ourselves and say that, in the immediate vicinity of the settlements and individual housing houses, we are not allowed to shoot under any circumstances, we will face the consequences. That's why I think we need to be rational enough here when we discuss the amendments. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u37	Thank you. I now conclude the debate on the draft law in its entirety, and we are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 17.12.2003 [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] You weren't in there when you were on your turn. It was your turn, but you weren't in the hall. Review of the amendments of 17.12.2003, where there are 13 amendments. We're moving on to Article 1. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy and the Group of Members of the United Nations and DeSUS and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Who wants a word? Nobody. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I would like to define myself and explain the amendment of New Slovenia. Before that, I would like to say that this amendment, which was tabled by three parties, is, in fact, a refined trick. They are not literally, but they have already copied the present third paragraph of Article 1 in a slightly different way. Not a single word has been put in this amendment. It is simply that if their amendment is adopted, it will not be necessary to make a declaration until the amendment tabled by Nova Slovenija. What have we invested in New Slovenia? We have tabled an amendment to the position that we have always advocated. We have always advocated that this law should not bypass the owners of agricultural land and forests. These efforts have so far been in vain. I am sure that this is also the last attempt in vain, but we are convinced that under the terms of this law, the possibility of running for concessions should also be given to legal persons who would, of course, fulfil what this law requires. However, in such a way that we do not give natural persons the opportunity to organise themselves or to run for hunting opportunities, we find it unacceptable and, of course, totally contrary to the constitutional provisions, to Article 33 of the Constitution which speaks of property rights. There was a lot of talk today. I won't say it again. It's just that this marriage literally goes away. Once again, we do not mind that the country is the owner of the game, that the state grants hunting rights. Of course, the hunting grounds are too large, because 2,000 hectares are politically defined. It could also be smaller because they are smaller in neighbouring countries. But we do not give the owners a chance to run, and this is short, honourable Members and Members, honourable speakers, unacceptable. The new Slovenia, of course, insists on this position, will remain in this position, perhaps I did not say before, we will not support such dictions of the law, which excludes owners.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u39	Someone else to Article 1. Yes, Mr. Rokavec and Mr. Komljanec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. It will be interesting to hear the explanation of the applicants why they will not support the amendment of New Slovenia. They'll probably say, "Because our amendment is much better written." That's right. But how can you also answer the question before the European public and the Slovenian public why you did not allow in this law under the conditions laid down by the law to transfer the hunting right of the State of the Republic of Slovenia to a natural person if it fulfils the conditions of this law. I would very much like to see what your answer will be. On the basis of this vote, it will then be clear what is the relationship to physical private property or to a person who meets the requirements of the law. I believe that if we are a legal, democratic state that respects, regardless of what kind of entity it is, whether it is a natural person, a legal person, under the conditions defined by the law, the same rights and the possibility that it may obtain a certain status. It will be very interesting to hear the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u41	Mr. Comedian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will, of course, support this amendment - our parliamentary groups, the United Letters and DeSUS, it is said, the first amendment to Article 1. That's what I'm trying to say. This property, which is today, is not even 200 years old as we know it today. It has to be said that before humans were urbanized, the wildlings lived differently. Today we've pushed all the wildlings into reservations, like the American Indians, if I can paraphras the matter a little bit, and I think we need to take to protect both the forest and the wild and also the favono, flora. It's a habitat that's no longer normal and that's why we need to worry about imbalances. I am sure that the game in the forest does not do much damage, but I am not talking about agricultural areas. There's a different matter. I would like to say that in the last ten years Slovenia has been growing with the forest, and on the other hand we have almost 9 million cubic metres of uncut floor. This is a several-year January in Slovenia. That means the forest is growing. And even if I know something, the annual scales are actually higher than we have now calculated. But that's just proof that there's no harm in the forest on average. And I think that forest owners should operate with a forest that doesn't have just commercial value anymore. The forest is being obtained from us, and it will also receive environmental value on a growing scale. So he'll take care of the balance in nature. In some countries, this percentage is much higher, and the economic value of the forest is likely to decrease. We don't need this, we don't need this, because Slovenia, I don't know, is almost 60% forested, with a good forest, with a good forest. Of course, the country should take care of wildlings and balance in this forest. I don't think anyone who buys or sells the forest is wild in this calculation and isn't growing up. It can't be. I have half a hectare of forest myself, but I don't know what part of the rabbit belongs to me: Either a whole or just one part - to make this matter a little bit bigger, and of course I also give up all the wildlings as well as other animals that are in this forest of mine. So, I'm going to support this amendment. And I think it's a different matter than I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. On the Constitutional Commission, we are considering a proposal by the Government or government parties to enable the State to transfer the implementation of state tasks to the local community, to legal persons or to natural persons. So, even in this area, the possibility of a government being able to handle this is opening up. The rights of these rights, which we are now talking about, will not be allowed to be passed on to natural persons. Gentlemen, this is once again a double game, a different approach, where there are apparently some lobby interests behind it. That's no way to write a good marriage, gentlemen, it doesn't say.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u45	Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u46	I would point out only to the debate of one of the predecessors who said that the forest is expanding, the agricultural land is growing. I agree, including unregulated and unfair solutions, including in this legislation, to contribute and contribute to the growth and expansion of this forest even more rapidly. The identification of the question of the number of game stocks, which is one of the reasons why farmers also leave farming. Yes, Mr. Anderlich, I know cases like this. Such cases are menacing, and I do not allow anyone to actually have to live in such cases. And secondly, the question of damage after the wild and the way in which these damages are paid. These are questions, but the essence of this article is, above all, why the State does not wish to recognize to the natural person the status of the granting of hunting rights if it fulfils the conditions laid down in this law. If he fulfils the conditions laid down in this Act. You will say, there is no natural person in the Republic of Slovenia who would meet these conditions - but what if tomorrow. What if there are tomorrow? How will you answer that question? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u48	With regard to the dilemma expressed in this amendment in order to enable the acquisition of concessions to natural persons, in accordance with the provisions of this law, this is not possible for a large number of reasons. One of these is also in the fifth chapter, which speaks of sustainable wildlife management, which says that game hunting is a sustainable management of the hunting family, not "hunting atheists" or "hunting moms". Thus, the role of active social organisations of hunting families is envisaged here, which are also organised in accordance with the social law. In short, it is some legal persons whose content is consistent with the vision of the proposers of this law on how to benefit from future time-consuming wildlife management, those positive gains developed by the practice in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, of course, at least it would be consistent if colleagues from Nova Slovenije felt the need to amend Article 1, then of course it would be necessary to amend several other articles, in particular Article 24, which explains the principles of sustainable wildlife management. In this case, of course, the matter would be in substantive conflict with the basic concept of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u49	Can we close the debate on Article 1? Good. I conclude the debate and move on to Article 6. Who wants a word? Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. This is also one of the basic principles that we have always advocated. We are confident, and if you allow me, because I have little time, I would explain the two amendments to Articles 6 and 13, both of which are written in this direction to the management areas of hunting grounds and to the hunting plans produced by the Forestry Institute in cooperation with certain institutions, including in cooperation with the Agricultural and Forestry Chamber, which represents owners of agricultural land and forests, the local community. This, of course, does not mean what Mr Juban said earlier, that all owners of agricultural land should give their consent, but those 193 municipalities. Why is that important? If this were done in such a way - and we have already defended this in the first phase of the law - then we are convinced that there would be no too many populations of certain species of game in certain areas. For the damage that is abnormally great always occurs when the population of some animal species is too large. Local communities, in cooperation with hunting families, which, of course, will receive, as the result of this law, hunting rights, could reach, in agreement, fairly quickly what kind of population is appropriate, and then, of course, give their consent. If things were so set up, then this story wouldn't be happening to us with damage around the wild pigs in Prekmurje, we wouldn't be doing what happens to us with bears in Kočev, which happens to us sometimes with deer and deer. We are convinced that this matter would, of course, be worth considering and supporting these amendments, and that this would in many ways contribute to making this law better than it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I would like to achieve this, especially what is the proposal of the amendments to Article 13, so that there is no harm - for once in people's lives we speak and then on agricultural surfaces. And of course, if there was no harm, most of the problems in the field of hunting would be solved. But how do you do that? In this case we are talking, colleague Sok, about hunting areas and maybe it is - I always have a specific area so large that there are several municipalities, more than ten, twelve. And how to harmonise that everyone will agree, because we are talking about an agreement that they will say, but this plan is now good and then there will be peace. From experience, when there were few, three, one insisted that the damage must be nothing and the damage must be covered up to nothing, and we all know that this is not feasible, there is no option. It's not in Europe. And that's the problem. For example, if we were to talk about hunting, it would be something else, as many as fewer municipalities cover one hunting ground or fewer hunting grounds in one congregation. The problem is to get these consents because today’s democracy has some legitimacy and cooperation or is often present. And of course I say, I'd be in favour if it weren't for that and to achieve that that really wouldn't be a shame, but about that later.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Azhitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u54	Thank you. That amendment amends the cooperation of local communities in such a way as to allow agreement to emerge at the end of this cooperation. I think that's completely unacceptable, for reasons my predecessor has already spoken of. For these reasons, too, because in fact local communities do not have on an expert basis people who could so professionally evaluate hunting plans in order to finally issue a consensus or disagreement; however, disagreement would mean that such an economic hunting plan could not be adopted. Consent is a very hard definition and cooperation is soft and good, and I think it is also necessary in this law Comparing the problem, if it remains as it is written, or adopting an amendment, so that there will be no more problems with pigs in Prekmurje, is pure nonsense, for two reasons. From one, because consent should then be sought from the Hungarians, because it is known that most of these pigs flow across the Mura and across the border, clearly, or with bears in Kočevska, who do not really have anything to look for with the consent of the local community. How, though, will the local community agree with a bear who has decided to take a little trip to neighboring areas? Indeed, this is foolishness that only those who do not know it well enough or who want to do a little bit of exaggeration in the adoption of this law can claim. That's why I don't think we can support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u55	Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u56	Thank you very much. See, with this amendment, the proposer is trying to put into law an agreement on the creation of a hunting area, which is, I think, a necessary condition, if you want to, or if you want to, in Article 13, in the preparation of long-term hunting plans for hunting areas and for breeding plants, to legislate the consent of the local community. I am sure that this is not the kind of entertainment that you are trying to show here, and it is quite unclear why in this house you have such an organic fear of any involvement of the local community in any matter that is proposed. Listen, then you rightly wonder who and what you were doing at the time or how the hell you were holding figs in your pocket when you passed the law on local self-government and established local self-government if on the other hand you are not prepared to give her any role in any matter. This is a matter that is drawn from marriage to marriage, and especially is the expression of this law on hunting. Consent - What does consent mean? Look at the current practice. At present, the practice is that the hunting family, which manages some hunting grounds in the area of a local community, has no influence in the planning of the game stock, in the planning of the annual shooting, has no bearing on the sad. Hunters face the fact that they are forced to violate the annual shooting plan and some other matter that they can somehow mitigate and compensate for the damage that occurs in the hunt. Look around, ask around, you'll see. I have already said, in the immediate vicinity of the environment where I live, we have a hunting family that has bankrupted, which is no longer in a position to pay damages, because it has no influence that they themselves know that it is actually a wild pig, that it is too much for wild pigs to necessarily reduce the stock. Don't ask the agency when it's planning, don't ask the hunting family, not even the local community. The local community, which is trying to preserve the rural population, which is taking additional measures to ensure that people in areas where fishing is usually located - in areas with limited farming conditions - are given a chance to survive and, on the other hand, it is facing a marked imbalance in the game stock that is causing damage on agricultural areas that should have no impact on this matter and, last but not least, in the planning of these matters. This is what I think is greedy local affairs, greedy local affairs, and of which you are withdrawing the right of local communities to decide on these local issues. Yeah, listen to the thing is, I'll say, totally incomprehensible. There is also something you need to know that hunting areas such as today do not cover 50, 60, and I do not know how many municipalities yet, and that this agreement can also be obtained because I think that the key consensus of the local community will be mainly in the preparation of hunting plans, not annual and similar. But it is completely incomprehensible to me that this relationship, or this insistence, is that in no case are you prepared to allow local communities to do anything in this area. This is not a good basis for one sustainable game management that we continue to listen to. As mayor, I have a bunch of complaints from the owners of agricultural land about how to assess the damage, above all the damage that wild pigs have done on grass in recent years. On meadows that are crucial for the survival of these farmers in hilly areas where they depend on the volume of feed. When pigs, I believe that most of you haven't seen what it looks like when a pig bursts a hectare and a half of a lawn that you can't eat for the next three years, and that's why the hunting family comes to help him grab it together and that's 15 kilos of weed. Nobody's willing to pay for a three-year drop of grass in this area. And in deciding on such matters you're not willing to give up even enough to allow a local community to, I'll say, name worthy of cooperation that would result in agreement, then it's half-incomprehensible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u57	We have debaters now: Mr Sok, Mr Anderlich, Mrs Majnikova. Please, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u58	Just for a little while. Of course, pigs are not only the problem of Prekmurje and they do not swim through Mura from Hungary because Mura is going somewhere else, parts of Prekmurje from other Slovenia. Well, they come from Hungary on land. However, I would like to say to Mr Ašić that it would be very good even if we only had a one-way map so that only Hungary could come to us, because then our hunters could "clean" so much more if I put it that way, but you must know that they are also coming back. So here's the problem. An excessive number is emerging here and here the number has to be regulated and I therefore argue that the local community that knows these problems best should give consent to these management and hunting plans.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u59	Mr. Anderlich. Are you talking as a proponent or as a member of the LDS?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u60	As a member of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u61	Because you have a minute there and here.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u62	I'm gonna do that "screw" thing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u63	Now as a member of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u64	I must point out that the whole law is built on the concept of cooperation between different factors in space. And when we talk about the fact that someone will have a consensus, it means that they will condition a certain arrangement, regardless of whether everyone else is united: a profession that is special in the institution, an interested public, who is specialised in hunting organisations, owners who are specialised in the agri-agricultural chamber and who are often, indeed, duplicating it when they are singles and others, but however, if someone is given a role in the design of these plans by a conditioner, this is, of course, confused by the basic concept. Responsibility is at the office, and that's important, because if there was any responsibility in agreement, then I'd understand. But this is actually a negative participation in the process. I give or I don't give my consent, it's a subjective thing, and I evaluate it as it suits me. Mr Sušnik, I do not believe that you want what is in relation to the damage to be paid by the hunter, the owner of the game and the owner of the hunting rights, and that the congregation will take over all these things when people come to the congregation and want these things to be arranged for them. Of course, the choice can also be to say in the planning, there will be no pig in our field, because it has destroyed so much and so much, and only if the pigs are not, will we give our consent. I don't think that's right. And so we wanted the proposers to see that this consensus of all these entities involved in the planning take place so far that, or a reduced number of damage to the minimum, it would not be necessary to do more than what can be done and what is real, to pay, or, of course, if such major damage would occur, even through the country, through the fund established for this purpose, the State could or from concessions, or from the budget, which it is now - the gentlemen of the Ministry will be able to confirm it, only because they will not be able to do so at this stage, but then at a break individually, etc., that certain funds are already being allocated to remedy, pay, or whatever the damage is, and is possible in this way, even in the future even at the annual budgets, of course at the end programmes proposed by the Ministry. This year, for example, we have given something more for the forest office, for the jobs that all these things are planning, and there will be something more to compensate for through this way. However, I would point out once again that the amendment is unacceptable, because we have followed comments that the local community must have a decisive word, that it must have an association of owners, that it must have operators of hunting grounds, and that the profession that is special in the forest office must be responsible for making these things so that everyone interested in some balance manages these things. Because - of course, I will talk about this at the end of a few words - it really wasn't the basic purpose of adopting this law to regulate hunting as a hunt for such or more favoured hunters or less favoured, but to regulate a whole range of issues. That's why I don't think this amendment can be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u65	Thank you. One procedural explanation is necessary. Since you mentioned that you would end up saying something, you could only say it in connection with Article 79. [[...]] [[The voice from the hall.]] It's a long way from there. [[...]] Good. Mrs. Majnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u66	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. In the article, when we talk about the difference between the words "cooperation" and "consent," we all talk about damage. Last week we talked about budgets, where we spent a lot of words on making more and more commitments to local communities, but the country is not giving them money for this purpose. If all that has been said in the past week is true, then it is absolutely necessary to reject this amendment. For then there would be local communities, for some are not considered to be an integral part of this country, obviously, but they are something out of the country that I have never understood and will never understand. Thus, such local communities would never agree to plans, for the plan would condition that animals should not be, for they do not have the money to pay for the damage. Simply calculated. My friend Anderlič has already said that we have funds in our budgets to pay for the damage. Most of the damage that has been paid and will be paid for by hunting families in the future is not covered by the budgets, as the damage caused by hunting families in the fields has been paid outside the budget. That this is a problem in Slovenia, we have also detected the drafters of the law and resolved it in articles that are more relevant to the end of the Damage Recovery Act. That this is a problem in the country, the country - which for some is not all of them, but only some - also notes when it envisages the establishment of a system of mutual insurance for plant production in the coming year with the envisaged extension in the livestock sector. When it foresees the establishment of a risk-based agricultural fund, it provides for the provision of budget resources to repress the insurance premium of 50%. In short, the country envisages the establishment of different systems, which will be co-financed and regressed by all. And the damage is then paid between the one who is bound to pay the damages and those who have suffered the damage. And in no case do I see that the local community here could have any other role than to participate in the plans. But it's not like he's giving consent. That's why I'm not going to confirm these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u67	Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. I hope we are still talking about Article 6. This is mainly about setting the limits of hunting areas rather than planning with wildlife management. But let me say the following after all. By 1994, all the congregations in that country had approved plans for wildlife management. And there was no problem. According to the new forest law, of course, this authority came to the forest institute. But tell me, what kind of circus were they until 1994, that was such a problem confirming plans for wildlife management? I didn't track them, even the other way around. From the experience I have from that period, I know that the damage has been less than it has been in modern times. Because the instrument of integration of the local factor has become a factor of cooperation. I am not in favour of consent and cooperation, because consensus may be a very harsh word, because it is possible that what colleague Juban said and other discussers may not be willing to give consent for personal reasons as well. On the other hand, I think it's a very common diction of cooperation, and I think it's very much too loose. This means that you can notify someone by email to their e-mail and if they call you in time or not, then the matter is resolved, or if they do not reply, the cooperation will not be completed. Even so, the word "cooperation" can be understood. I will therefore say more later in Article 13, where I expect that the applicants will only be able to listen to the arguments. If they do not, the same song will go on as it has done in the story of the adoption of this law many times. Let me just say one more thing. It is very sad to refer to the adoption of this law, because if hunting organisations cannot recover the damage, they will be reimbursed by the State, the budget, the risk fund, the mutual insurance company. The causes and solutions need to be found in the essence of the problems: ensuring an adequate optimal stock. If this is established - but this can only be established if there is actually an equal relationship in this planning phase - then we will avoid this issue of damage, damage, and, on the other hand, excessive burden on the state budget, excessive funds in the risk fund, mutual insurance and so on. I think it is necessary to look for the reasons here - the optimal stock is the one that will be able to solve most of the problems. However, everyone must be equal in this process, and this is not yet in these solutions, but it is no longer in Article 13.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u69	Mr. Auschwitz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u70	Thank you. First of all, I just wanted to tell Mr Sok as a replica that I fixed it myself, that Mura is not a border river with Hungary, so there is no problem here. Secondly, I would like once again to say what this consensus really is. I think we know, but we're not aware enough that consent is an administrative act. And if we impose this on the local community, it will issue this agreement on the basis of a law on administrative procedure, which is logically, a different agreement, a different act of the municipality does not issue; it also issues others; but in the form of a consensus it is then a paper which must be issued on the basis of an administrative procedure. This paper also has some responsibility. In fact, if the congregation gives its consent to join the municipal water, which is, for example, the primary jurisdiction of the congregation, it must also guarantee that the one who has paid for this consent will receive this water. If we commit the local communities to giving their consent, we should radically change the whole law in those parts when it comes to compensation. I think you've understood little about this work, Mrs. Lydia. As soon as there is agreement, the local community should also be included among the taxpayers for compensation. For if consent is given for a hunting plan and then it is found that that stock is guilty of damage, you speak of it, then he who gave consent is also bound to this payment. Of course it won't, and I don't think it will. About why the congregations confirmed the hunting plans by 1994. Of course, I used to do something like this in my congregation in the 1980 ’ s, but by 1994, the congregations had been amphibians, the congregations were carrying out local functions and tasks of national authority, and after 1994 there was knowledge of the powers of the local community and some of the nationals. So back here watching how it was before 1994, it makes no sense. Because local communities no longer have much in common with the former municipalities in the old system, which was in force in Slovenia until 1994. For this reason, I think there would be almost enough debate on this agreement. They would simply do great damage to the law itself and to the entire local communities, which should work and hire some specialists to get to know each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Can we get this over with? Not yet. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u72	Thank you very much. In fact, I am grateful to Mr Ašić that he also mentioned the ZUP, which, of course, debarred Mrs Lidija Majnik's debate, because there is a definition of what happens if there is no consensus within a certain time limit. So it can't come to what your fellow Member has said so that a congregation can set up and give no consent. Conditioning this matter with compensation is completely pointless. We have written down in the law how to form a fund from which compensation will be paid, of course I say that this fund will not be, but if it is, very small, but not expected that, for example, hunting families, hunting organisations will be hunting the country or the municipalities, and they would be paying damages, which unfortunately will not happen in any case.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u73	Thank you. Can we conclude a debate on this article? Good. I conclude the debate on Article 6. We are moving on to Article 13, I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party Group. Who wants a word? Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. I have already mentioned something about this amendment in the previous debate. Indeed, in this regard, cooperation is essentially a overly loose definition in the law, in order to actually ensure an optimal form of planning for the management of game. That is why, in the Group of Members, we have turned this word into the words 'and first coordinate them', of course, both with hunting organisations, both with the regional units of the Department of Nature Protection and with the regional units of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber. It is only in such a partnership that appropriate planning of the game stock could actually be achieved. On the other hand, they avoided different interpretations of what cooperation means and the operator’s commitment that it should also be aligned with all those entities. That doesn't mean consent. But that means he needs to talk to them. The second question is: the fact is that the plans for hunting areas in this country are being prepared, produced, but lack a general definition. These plans must define that they cannot endanger people's lives. We had cases in Ribniski, we still have them, and we still have them elsewhere, with a brown bear. More importantly, the question is that it cannot endanger agricultural production in the surrounding area. Indeed, this is the greatest danger that what has already been mentioned will lead to the possibility that agricultural land will grow even faster so that the forests will grow even more. Some of you will say, because this is all nice and right, that the forest is even more, but we already know that we are one of the most forested countries in Europe and that if the growth trend goes in this direction, we will soon land in the first place. Absolutely in the first place. I believe that this on the other hand is worrying about our cultural landscape, where the population of this province is one of the very important components of our country, which we should be very proud of. However, it is also a group of landowners, which are said to be purely direct, farms living in peripheral areas, along with forests, and which are significantly too exposed to wildlife damage in the larger stock that the actual area is transferring. Therefore, the planner should also have this in view of his planning, have this principled definition in the law.In fact, it is unacceptable that something - that damage occurs where it does not occur years ago. And then the occurrence of this damage, the magnitude of this damage has remained constant in recent years. There are other areas where wild pigs have usually appeared on the field, on the meadow, and so on, occasionally. Other issues are the fundamental large damage caused by the overstocking. I said before, the biggest problem is too much wildlife, causing too much damage. This is the biggest problem in our country in the field of hunting. And here we need to start solving, looking for reasons, giving a general definition that planners will also have a clear definition in law, that this is also the position of the state. I expect the bill's proponents to support these two amendments if they want to, above all, their intention to make the law they have proposed even more operational and less conflict. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u76	In recent times, some of us have been willing to listen to the problems of the people they have with regard to the damage and the savagery. And some local instigator said, "Let's close the MPs for as long as they don't make sure we don't get any more damage from the wild." And let's take this as a funny story today, from some politician who wants to be liked by people, but here's the thing. When we form a law, like my colleague Rokavec said, we get a definition of damage and danger and here's the problem of how to design it. I've said before that I like this amendment only when our ministry has to write a definition and instructions, [[Ministry, Secretariat, Institute for Forests]] how to ensure that the stock does not endanger agricultural production in the surrounding area. How do you do that? And if this could be written in some way, just like that, with some amendment, let's say, if this would guarantee it, then I would support it. It's the only thing I see out of this is that I quickly skip the content back to the story I've experienced. And the areas of Kolega Sušnik obviously have problems like I have in the past, when you see a 2-hectare plot where the deer breaks the corn and the next day a wild pig comes and eats what's left of it, and the problems of the people who have to endure it also financially are, of course, the reason to think about ways to solve it. [[...]] Just let someone tell me how this amendment will ensure that this will not happen. Now let's leave the Hungarian border. There's a specification and there's no way this amendment would work. Where else? And that is why we are trying to be rational and propose solutions that will be feasible in life. You can have a local community here a hundred times and anyone. I do not think that this could be achieved so that there would be no threat to agricultural production. How can someone explain to me how? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u77	Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u78	Thank you very much. See, the practice until the implementation of the forest law by 1993 has shown this in some way. At that time, undisputed hunting families, I will say, which generally coincide with their borders with the borders of local communities, have a greater and more important impact on animal stock planning, and what is happening now, as they point out, once again, what they point out, especially hunters, would not be happening in relation to the stock in connection with the enormous damage. How do you do that? One of the ways we support is the consent of the local community. The administrator in Article 13 does not have a significant possibility of influencing the annual plan for the shooting of other matters, as experience is such, now such experience, regardless of the fact that it is recalled. Look, I've been present at at least eight annual general gatherings of the hunting family that run the area that I come from. All these eight years, as a red thread, there is some disagreement between the establishment and the hunting family regarding the stock of animals. And for eight years now, I've been listening to how many hunters they pay for the damage, and they have no influence to regulate the wild pig stock, in particular in this case, to some reasonable level, on some level that they had before 1993. And if it's not some nonsense that we're continuing to make law now, then someone should convince me otherwise. Until 1993, until the entry into force of the forest law of this species of game was not threatened and in no case problematic. It is a question of whether we want to have wild pigs or people in certain areas in Slovenia, that is a question. I'm only talking about a wild pig as a case, because there can be a problem with deer and comrades in other areas. That's the only question. And when we decide on this issue here today, we come into some disharmony with so many announced efforts to preserve rural settlements and, last but not least, with the efforts made by the Ministry of Agriculture in the form of direct payments and other programmes in these areas. Then it is questionable that this is a conflict of interest. Our attempt to reconcile these interests obviously did not fall to fertile ground or, for reasons that I do not understand, you do not want to listen to; I cannot say otherwise. I don't expect anything to change, either, because I'm real, just like nothing has changed in the entire story of the hunting law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u79	Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u80	Thank you. Last Saturday, I spoke to a farmer in Vach, in the center of Vach. It has land in the immediate vicinity of the Vache elementary school, and probably a lot of people here have been present at Vacha, as well as at the geometric center. In fact, they are not surrounded by forests, but he told me this year that he had to fence his wheat field, which was in the immediate vicinity of the Vache primary school, because otherwise the wild pigs would have destroyed his crops. This is not in the immediate vicinity of the forests, it is in a clean settlement, in the market, in a famous cod settlement in our country, which has a long history, but in the immediate vicinity of this or the Vaches themselves are dealing with these problems and then true colleague Juban, yes, I would have already supported this general definition, but how we will be able to implement it. If we write this down in the law, the state will express its interest in the law and its willingness to take into account this moment in the planning of the wild stock, in order not to endanger the lives of people, but also not to endanger agricultural products. I am convinced that this is the most important - the definition, and above all the message of this national assembly, that it is also the interest of the State. If, of course, the interest of the State is different that this stock is increasing, then we will say, of course, we will have another message: be calm, we will pay all the damage from the budget, from various funds, etc. We'll make sure of that. But let's ask ourselves whether it's rational or economic. This is not an effective way of managing this area, it is not effective. The State should first make sure that budget money does not go away unnecessarily from its budget to ensure that these issues are resolved elsewhere. Here's the problem, the problem in stock, in principle. It is also a problem when, if the state is not prepared to make such a definition, it also informs the State that it wants certain groups of citizens and citizens of that country to reduce their basic human rights in order to be able to grow in normal circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Spindler.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I'd answer Mr. Rokavec. I say, this is all right and it is certainly true, which he claims should be arranged in some way, on the other hand, also by individual farmers, even individual farmers destroy so many and so many kinds of young animals from blackberries, from claws of pheasants to young rabbits, to young deer and the like. We're not aware of that. In the final stage, nature means a lot to me, because I'm also agronomist by profession. And I think if there are no savages at least in this nature, then nature will virtually be dead. I agree, however, that these damage must certainly be settled and I think they are also being settled, as I have also often been a appreciater of the damage done by the savages. And usually these hunting families settled more or less, including each company, say with Fazan in Beltinci, we also had certain problems on agricultural surfaces and they always found a dialogue and compensated, of course, if it was caused in too much value. This has always been the case, and this is still happening, so that the hunting family is certainly aware of this problem mentioned by my predecessor, that it is indeed true. And I think it will be like this in the future, because otherwise it can't be because we have to live here in this Slovenia from hand to hand, because otherwise it will be difficult to survive. I also agree with the opinion of the Democratic Party, which has just said that a little more should be done, particularly in the disposal of those animals which are certainly too many in certain areas. And when that mass of pigs or deer arrives, it certainly does such damage that virtually no one can easily forget but less survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u83	Thank you. We can conclude the debate now, at Article 13, Mr Rokavec, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u84	Just one brief supplement, in that sense everything is fine and well, but if the hunting family doesn't have money to pay, then here is the responsibility of the state that established such a system. You'll say yes, because the law solves the issue of damages. But let's ask ourselves whether it makes sense that the country here is wise to open up its small to artificially sustain a larger stock of game. That's the question. And for what it's worth, I already said we're spending money here. Secondly, once again, I claim that such an approach reduces the human rights of certain citizens and citizens of this country to the right to farming under conditions which can naturally be given in that area because they are artificially prevented from having normal farming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u85	Thank you. So I can now conclude the debate on Article 13. Good. I'm closing the debate. And we move on to Article 19. Who wants a word at Article 19? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. And we're moving on to Article 21. Anyone who wants a word with the 21st Article and Amendments always doesn't, of course. You've all got material in front of you. [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. Article 24 I am opening the debate at Article 24 and here is the amendment of the SMS Group of Members. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. Article 26, here I am putting to the debate the article and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and the amendment of the SLS Group of Members. Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Chairman. Perhaps the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture or the proposers present here would like to ask why they object to the proposed priority order for the award of concessions. Perhaps we are unknown in the Slovenian Democratic Party to the opinion or in our Group of Members if we could have a cross-section or dispute in the case of order, as provided for in Article 26 of the draft law on third reading, or in the case of the implementation of our amendment, where we give priority to obtaining concessions to a hunting organisation, whose majority of the members are owners of land and forests in the area of fishing, or which majority of the members have permanent residence in the area of fishing. Look at this again, one of the things that seems very important to us. This is very important because of this introduction, while you oppose the greater role of the local community in the creation of hunting areas, in the production of long-term, short-term, annual hunting plans.By the exercise of this priority right or by the fact that the hunting grounds are owned by a hunting family, where the majority of the owners of the agricultural land or residents of the area of the fishing area are, I will probably say, the contradiction or inconsistencies that we have witnessed to them and which we also expect to eliminate to a great extent. Therefore, I would like to answer whether the implementation of this amendment would result in a marked non-compliance in the event of the re-enactment of concessions to the hunting families, because otherwise I do not understand the opposition to the order of the award of the concession. I can explain to myself that there is only one, I'll say, discrepancy or likelihood that some hunting family, whose members are not exactly immigrants, would lose their hunting rights. However, I am not aware of this, so I ask if anyone can explain this to me: whether it's a proposaler or representatives of the ministry. It is not necessarily right now, it can be later in the closing, concluding word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u87	The Government has not expressed any interest in the debate and has not notified the time except three minutes at the opening. Now, why isn't it, and I don't know that. But the proposer can answer that, but he has time for that. I just don't know if he's willing right now. Good. Article 26 Anyone else? There are no debaters. So I'm closing the debate. 43rd Article - this is the date of the amendment of the United Nations Group of Members. So paragraph 43 and the amendment is in the debate. First, Mr Beumann, Mrs Črnugljeva, Mr Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. As has already been said, I do not support the introduction of falconism into the hunting law in Slovenia. I certainly don't agree with the argument that this hunt is allowed in many ways to be a tradition and so on. Because I don't think that can be an argument. In the UK, too, there is a long tradition of fox hunting, and there is an organized activity of a whole bunch of civil organisations and a variety of associations fighting this way of hunting. In Spain, we know bullfighting, and I hope that no one in this country would think of trying to bring this bullfight to Slovenia, because it is something that is allowed somewhere. In fact, it must be clear to us that in the case of a falcon hunt, it is a falcon for an eccentric violation of animal rights. It's animal maiming. All you have to do is look at some literature, some hawk literature, which clearly says what falconers do when they train falcons, how they set up live baits, what live baits do, how young people or beginners are advised not to use small bites to make them prefer larger bites, so that they do not get killed in training; and so on. Not to mention that there is also crime, the theft of eggs from nests, the exception of young people to the problem of uncontrolled introduction of foreign genetic material. And so on. At the same time, it is an unselective hunt, for it bites when you release it, which on top of everything is still exasperated, it will be very unselective to choose its victims. The costs will also increase, as there will be a need for supervision in the case of the adoption of the second reading amendment. Control will increase and costs will increase if control increases. This is how I predict that I will certainly support the amendment of the United Nations to delete paragraph 4 of Article 43 of the hunting law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. The amendment to delete the fourth paragraph of Article 43, which allows, as a form of hunting, also the possibility of hunting with a bird bite, that is to say, falconing, we have tabled because we believe that the lawfulness of such hunting in terms of nature protection is worthy of re-judgment. We know that opinions on this issue are quite shared, and you are probably familiar with the arguments of those who demand the prohibition of such fishing in all the parliamentary groups, as well as the opinions of the falconers. In the UK Group, however, we join the knowledge, warning and argument of many institutions' offices from the Ministry of the Environment, the Slovenian Environmental Agency, the Slovenian Institute for Nature Protection, the University of Ljubljana and the Faculty of Biotechnical Sciences, the Slovenian Museum of Natural History, the Internal Regional Park and many societies and civil society organisations, such as bird-watching and study societies, the Slovenian Society for Natural Heritage, the Society for the Conservation of Birds and Nature Protection, the association of societies against animal torture, who are convinced that the law of co-location would become a natural problem, would pose an additional threat mainly to the protection of bites and the preservation of wildlife in Slovenia, as it is not possible to avoid infringements of protected species, and other problems and potential abuses, where some of these birds' populations are affected by such abuses. Last but not least, there is no true falcon tradition in Slovenia, and the time has gone very far. If once such a hunt has been normal and even from an ethical point of view, we can no longer claim it. At the same time, I would like to point out in particular that our aim is not to prevent any functioning of the falcon societies in accordance with the provisions of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. We are confident that this will be a kind of activity, which is not hawking as a form of hunting, even when paragraph 43 of Article 43 is deleted; that is to say, we oppose falsification as a form of hunting. It is clear and also very questionable how and in what way a person can actually have one animal, one beautiful animal in such a direction, and what the effects of guidance are, we can never know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. It is likely that this debate will recur in the evening when the vote is taken. In fact, I have to say that from a professional point of view, I can actually reject, or some of the others who think that way, the references that you have given to colleagues and colleagues in terms of anti-collecting. In fact, here we can talk about 4,000-year-old history of falconing, about 800-year-old history of falconing in Slovenia, until 1960 falconing was allowed in Slovenia. Again, as has been said, since 2002 it has been through a decision of the Ministry of Agriculture. We're talking about two things here: one is falconing, the other is falconing. So, falconry is a form where we can sort out, if I say so, birds bite. And that's exactly what a bird-bite society does to us. And now, if what you suggest happens is that we reject or accept this amendment of yours, then the breed or breeding of birds will be allowed to bite and the sky will be allowed to hunt. It is said that those who deal with this, which is about 50 in Slovenia, will have to go abroad to hunt with these birds of prey. Thirteen European countries are allowed to do so. This is a very regulated matter. And by allowing us to do so in Article 43, as we adopted in the second reading, we would open up the possibility of a sub-law in which everything could be clearly recorded, what form and how to hunt a bird. Of course, we do not need anything new to "understand" here, because this is very clearly defined in the framework of the European directives. During this time, we received quite a few materials that you mentioned earlier. I don't know if it's a matter of not knowing if it's a scam. When we say that falconry is the main reason for robbing cubs bites from nests in nature - tell me how I mean, it is misleading the public! [[...]] We need to know that it is the falcon societies and organisations in Europe and the world that have helped to ensure that even the birds survived the bites. We know what happened when they used very aggressive chemicals that actually led to birds almost extinct. And it was these societies that kept them. It's in Germany, for example, let the gentleman get [['cause it's written somewhere.]] even state recognition for this, for preservation. And you say the opposite: that these societies and this form of hunting are against these birds. And you're saying hungry birds hunt. Yeah, that's not possible! Who knows little biology, organisms, knows that a hungry bird or a man who is hungry, who is dehydrated, cannot work - and even a bird cannot hunt. I would suggest that you and the experts who learn about this might have a little discussion to enlighten you that this is not the case. I hope you don't approach it ideologically, because it was once the domain of some layers of people, and that's why it's not appropriate for us. In Europe, this form of hunting is involved in sonar farming. You should know that, too. I guess I could count a few more things here. For example, you wrote down how many protected birds will be seized with such a form of hunting. Our falconers caught 95 birds last year. Data that you have also probably noticed that we have 250,000 cats in Slovenia and you know how much damage the cats actually do in the Slovenian space in the field of birds. That's not what anybody's interested in. For hunting, for this form of hunting, which is in fact traditional, somewhere also sonar, and here there is such a big problem. I am taking part in the debate held by my colleague Kacin, who has been very well identified in the general debate on this issue. And I hope, colleagues and colleagues, that in the evening we will not support this amendment advocated by colleague Silva Črnuglev and that we will allow this form of fishing and the protection of birds to be caught in Slovenia and also in the wider European space and that we will be able to prepare a quality sub-legislative act based on this legal dictatorship, which will regulate this matter very clearly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u93	Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The technical museum expert Romana Erhatič-Shirnik, who systematically explores hunting and hunting tradition in Slovenia, also wrote in one of her writings: "Slovenia has relatively little record of falconing, and virtually everyone is over 200 years old. During this time, foreign nobles were hawked in Slovenia. Slovenians only took part in the hunt as assistants to their masters." This is published and historically verified, but it is good to know.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u95	Thank you. Anyone else at 43rd? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 44 as well as to the amendment of the LDS MPs and the Members' groups of the United Nations and DeSUS and the amendment of the SLS MPs. So, article 44 and the amendments. Who wants a word? Nobody. Mr. Rokavec?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. I believe that this amendment should correct the error we have made in the second reading and allow the actual use of hunting weapons in group hunting closer to 50 metres from settlements and settlements. Indeed, the fact is that if we had taken into account that amendment that was adopted, 250 meters would in fact be prohibited in a wide range of areas. And now, in the third reading, we have the opportunity to correct this mistake and perhaps even the wrong interpretation that was then by adopting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u97	Mr Kramberger and then Mr Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have already drawn attention to this problem at second reading. In fact, in the scattered settlement of the Slovenian space, such a dictatorship of law, which is now created in the second reading, is actually impossible to hunt. And I strongly appeal that you do not support this matter, because in fact you will prevent the hunt in this way. So hunters are people who probably know how to handle weapons, and they are also very well aware of what they wear on their shoulders when they walk on hunting grounds. And by writing down this length, this 250 meters -- we're not going to do anything. I think that we need to act or that we need to act differently, that it is necessary to raise the awareness of hunters, if necessary, only to say that this is not necessary. And I think that basic diction, which was 50 meters in the marriage, is quite enough. Otherwise, we'll actually disable the hunt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Hunting is an essential form of wildlife management. And this decline, or the one that has taken place with the adoption of this amendment, is a very dangerous matter and is in the interest of those who are already predominant in the production of hunting areas that are forcing an unacceptable stock of certain animal species to the detriment of the man who is fishing in this area. That is why I think you will also see the purpose of this amendment, because it was essentially the intention of this amendment to prevent fishing in most parts of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, sophisticated, and I will say, literally replace these areas with animals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u101	Bad Lukach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u102	The fact is that the safety of citizens would be significantly greater if we kept 250 metres from residential, industrial and other facilities. No one who has a bit of a healthy path can deny this factor. 250 metres from residential, industrial and other facilities and 50 metres from railways or public roads, with the exception of forest and Polish roads or roads. I don't understand as a man who likes to walk in nature and doesn't fear man or animal, why we should be here twice on both eyes, given the safety of people. Even more so, I study killing living creatures that cannot defend themselves. No one will speak to me, but let him be such a human heart, a hunter, that the essence of hunting is to seize an animal. Everyone from the first to the last one you've talked about here, from the left or the right, you're all talking about animals as if they weren't living beings. That it's like something dead that someone shoots and then gets a trophy or whatever, or eats that thing. But an animal is not treated like a living, but like a prey, like a corpse. And all you can do here is fight each other, who gets that body, one or the other. However, life is no one's property, and animals are, if you've forgotten from your faith, God's creatures. And it is not according to man's decree to kill helpless animals for himself, for this pleasure is a negative pleasure. And I'm surprised to see my colleagues out there swaggering, otherwise full of tongues of kindness and these matters. In short, it's not human law to kill helpless animals. In the old covenant - yes, man was the master of the earth, and in the new covenant there are also human beings with whom man lives in symbiosis. But one is symbiosis - and hunters are supposed to live in symbiosis - and the other is needless killing animals. We just haven't come to this mental level yet to view animals as equivalent beings in the universe. That's why I'm going to insist on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u103	Thank you. Well, part of the debate is in the general part, you know, we should take that into account. Because we are now talking about a specific article and that first part has been corrected. Good. Let's move on. Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Chairman. As I announced earlier in the general debate that I will come to this amendment, I will now do so. I'm a little surprised when my colleagues say that the hunt will be disabled. You probably know that hunting isn't just shooting, it's hunting, watching, stalking. And I'm sure if it turns out that 250 meters from where people live, we can't shoot, then we can't disable the hunt. The proposed amendment, which was adopted with the first signed Jaša Zlobec Lukič, was mainly intended to point out that hunting is dangerous in the immediate vicinity of residential houses and settlements. And not only is he dangerous, for many people and for children is an unacceptable form of violence. It is therefore appropriate to set a limit on such facilities, and this can be written down by law. I am sorry that the applicants have not given a little more attention to this amendment and to this warning and could propose a different amendment. Therefore, this 250-metre limit should be maintained and only firearms should be prohibited, except by the law of certain exceptions. And I am sure that this would be acceptable both to the hunters and, of course, to all of us who opposed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u105	Thank you. Anyone else at 44? Yes, Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u106	It doesn't matter which amendment is to be adopted. It is important that he is one of these two because accidents do not happen around the settlements. I just happen to come from an area where there was something. But in densely enlarged forests, cornfields, etc., where it shoots at more than 50 meters. There are less accidents at 50 meters than 250 meters. It is therefore important that we accept this matter as proposed by one of these two amendments. I've said before that falconing is not about law enforcement, it's about the fate of hunting and wildlings. This solution depends on hunting and the implementation of the law on hunting and game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate at Article 44? Yes, you can. So I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 45 and the amendment of the LDS Member Club and the United Nations and DeSUS Group. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. Article 54 I am putting the debate on Article 54 and on the amendment of the LDS Member Club and of the United Nations and DeSUS groups and the amendment of the SLS Group of Members. Please, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. This is one of the amendments to prevent misunderstandings that occur mainly in the payment of damage after the game, when the money runs out. It is therefore right that this article also clearly states who guarantees the payment of damages; of course, to the extent determined by the law, the operator of the catch is to be guaranteed by the appropriate hunting organisation. But where this limit is exceeded, if the law is so adopted, then the state. In fact, this would also make it clear that the State wants to deal with the damage caused by the game in such a way as to guarantee payment to the injured person, who was, of course, harmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u109	Thank you. Mrs. Majnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I would like to draw attention to point 1 of this Article, which says that the operator is responsible for damage to agricultural and forestry cultures, irrespective of guilt. Thus this amendment actually just confirms something that has already been written, and I do not see the particular need for us to accept it, although I agree with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u111	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u112	No, Mrs Majnikov, you probably did not read the text of this amendment well enough, it is not just a responsibility, it is also a guarantee, the guarantee is, of course, something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u113	Thank you. Anyone else? Then I conclude the debate on Article 54 and move on to Article 78. I am putting to the debate Article 78 and the amendment of the SMS Group, the amendment of the LDS Group of Members and the DeSUS Group of Members, the amendment of the SLS Group of Members and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members, as well as several amendments to Article 78. Now for the debate. Please, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I would like to explain the amendment we tabled in Novi Slovenije. In fact, this law on hunting is extremely well written down. In the second reading, a number of amendments were made to the Government’s recommendation or explanation that this law is too important in order to be left to the Ministry of Agriculture. And that's where the government took the right to set up management areas, to set up fishing grounds, to grant concessions, while the unpopular part called liability for damage was left to the Ministry of Agriculture. So, it's actually one big joke and not just that! The Ministry of Agriculture has also left workers who are currently employed in some of these special farms, which will have to be taken over by the forest institution, but which has permanent financial problems and this financial problem is, of course, the Liberal Democracy every year with the budget this year and for 2005 by proposing an amendment in Parliament and also adopting it, of course, you have provided the forest fund institution and you have taken the funds out of the EKO-0. So this is unacceptable, so we wrote in the New Slovenia Amendment that if all of this has now been transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture, if the institution will take on new workers to provide certain funds for these new employees, the Ministry of Agriculture will take them. In addition, I would like to say that you have imposed a series of new tasks, obligations - all this will cost a lot of money after this law. Article 20 provides for 15 new tasks, some are already under the current legislation, and some are added, which this institution will have to do in a new way. I ask you, and, of course, I would like to ask you from the applicants the answer if you do not accept our amendment, from which source the agricultural ministry would pay for this matter - from ECO-0's funds. If you have listened to Minister Marble, he says, 2007 our EKO will pay at European level and then these subsidies will also go as a taxable resource to the farmer. So take this matter seriously, not in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u115	Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. I would totally agree with the speaker. Indeed, the fact is that we are needlessly opening up a budget small in this law, after unnecessary. And the second question is the amendment, which we have also tabled in the Group. Indeed, at the previous meeting, we have already found and received a reply from the legislative and legal service that Article 9 78 is questionable and not adequately resolved. I reiterate that we cannot legally write something that the government can redeem, that the government can redeem, whether it is written in this law or not. How many things does the government decide to redeem and then buy it off on the basis of other legislation? But to write the text, the last time I pointed out this, is that the assets of Sneznik, which so far is the property of the Hunting Union of Slovenia, can be redeemed and, of course, with a very unusual dictatorship; at fair market value. Yeah, well, at least it would make sense to write it down, by what methodology it redeems itself, just like everything else. First, the sworn appreciater shall make the appropriate valuation and, based on that valuation, shall be the basis for a buy-back agreement rather than a simple "fair market value" exercise. It is clear from this definition that a privileged government relationship with another contractual partner is being established here. In fact, if the rules of the game are for Jozet, then they should also be for Tonet, but in this case they cannot be different for Tonet or Jožet - that no one will be able to feel with the name qualified. But, frankly, it doesn't work together, so we've tabled this amendment and it's more than obvious and appropriate just to delete it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u117	Thank you very much. There are no more reported debaters? It's not. Good. Then I conclude the debate on Article 78 and we move on to Article 79, which is the last article in this review. So I am putting to the debate Article 79 and the amendment of the SLS Group of Members. Who wants a word? Mr. Rokavec, Mr. Tsukjat. Please, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. I think this is one of the most important amendments. Indeed, in the second article of article 79, the applicants tried together almost to form a definition of such hunting grounds with an indivisible concept with a special purpose and other hunting grounds. But I'll tell you again. You cannot set a specific condition on the part of the State and the specific status of the fishing grounds because you do not even ask those owners. In this case, you don't even ask them if they agree. They can't do anything. They are in exactly the same status as other hunters and this is a problem of special hunting grounds and their enforcement. Indeed, it is a fact that an inappropriate attitude towards respect for the principle of property is established here. We are convinced that consensus is necessary in this case from landowners. Just once, just once in the process of establishing a special hunting ground status, and nothing will be necessary anymore. But at least give these owners this, at least allow them this right to be asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Well, this article is about national fishing. How's the state hunting going, we know. In the case of Vrhnika, the Ljubljana Summit, I must say that these experiences of the surrounding inhabitants are sad. In fact, it's a state hunting ground where wildlings rot, where not only the game feeds itself to survive the winter, but it feeds for a short time, feeds where the wildlings walk in the parks, each other, where it's actually gone, the tree disappears, where it doesn't grow up anymore. The surrounding farmers, of course, have ruined fields, meadows. In short, the balance is broken. The balance's broken. Why is the balance between man and beast broken between the field and the forest? Because it is only for the state to decide on this game, but not for the rest of them. That's why the balance is broken. And of course, I would simply say that if the gentlemen of Ljubljana want to feed themselves, feed some wildlings, buy a ranch and feed their wildlings there, on their land, at their own expense. But not on foreign land, at foreign costs - we know what compensations are. Surely, I do not agree with the logic that I will feed my herd on a foreign pasture. But that's not the main problem. The problem is that the wildlings belong to the landscape. Wildlings are part of the landscape, and we know who's keeping the landscape. This year, we adopted, in the National Assembly, a European Convention on Landscapes, where it is explicitly said that the country is taken care of and decided by the local community. That this is the primary right and responsibility of the local community. Here, of course, in these state hunting sites, neither the local community nor the owners of these forests has a word. This, of course, is a failure of this law, which will probably also find another epilogue, not just deciding here in the National Assembly if it is as it is predicted. National hunting grounds - this is where one asks: who is the country? In fact, the country owns the wild, we all agree. Who's the state? The government? It is, in a way, the guardian of state property rather than the owner. Then who's the country? Is this country a lobby? Is there a government party? Isn't the country a local community? And 350,000 owners of pastures and forests, where is this wildling? Aren't these countries too? And of course, if we recognize a democratic concept of the state and if the state is the owner of this wild, then we must certainly include those who are also affected in maintaining balance, those who, on the other hand, care for another interest, this is an interesting owner, an interest in forests and a representative of pastures and forests. It is certainly clear here on this particular case where this deficiency is made clear. In fact, where is the disadvantage of breaking our balance, not ensuring a coherent approach, not actually a respectable principle of ownership, this is what my flock is saying on a foreign pasture, and that it is urgent or urgent that we actually face a broader problem that is reflected in this law. In fact, a partial approach to solving a state problem. The landscape, not just the game, the landscape is some state problem, it's some national interest. Approaching this only from the point of view of a partial interest, one lobby which prevails in the drafting of the text itself and in the making of decisions in this law, is very bad. Such a law is, for the first time, unstated; secondly, it will cause many injustices, cause dissatisfactions, cause many more things that we would not want to do to this country. This amendment, proposed by the Slovenian People's Party, is certainly such that it would at least correct this discrimination in the case of national hunting grounds, I would say, the expulsion of other interested parties in deciding on these matters and, of course, we will support it. We believe, however, that if there are no minimum amendments to this law, then we will also reject the whole law. Not because we don't need a new marriage, but because the old marriage is flawed, it's bad. But if we are to change the old law and write a new law, it must, however, be in some way in accordance with the principles of the rule of law, according to the principles of democracy, where the state is more than some lobby; and the state is somewhat more than a government party. That's why we're going to think about whether or not we're going to support the marriage at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u122	It is understandable that we have given special attention to the issue of so-called hunting grounds for a particular purpose, due to legitimate perceptions, at least in some cases where these hunting grounds have also been extended with a view to developing, in particular, hunting tourism or the like. And when we thought about how and in what way only to bring together, to some fund of all interests, of all needs, we saw at least a few reasons to say; the first time that the government checks the existence of these hunting grounds at a certain time, under certain conditions, and that it does so primarily through an authorised professional, qualified carrier of this project. It is therefore clear that, for these fisheries, the institution will also have another responsibility to prepare the professional basis for the Ministry and the Ministry, then within the government, also the definition of these fisheries, particularly in terms of scope, purpose and by providing all the necessary functions it is intended to have. It would be unwise or foolish to act as an institution, if this government did not follow the process and in the manner prescribed for the creation of the hunting plans that we have already discussed, taking into account the opinions of both owners associated with the agri-agricultural chamber as well as the local communities. The country - it is we, Mr Knocky, it is the citizens of this country, it is those who are in these services, those who are in different services, those who live in Ljubljana, those who live in other municipalities, and so on. And I believe that it is true that the game which is state-owned under this law is so arranged that it will be accessible under the same conditions to all who want to watch it, who will want to rule with certain things, and finally, if hunting is indeed a privilege, even to hunt. When I first met this law myself more than ten years ago and then more times, I never had the first shot, the survival, if you want, the satisfaction of some passions, by confiscating a trophy, etc. No! No! On the contrary! But I've always understood this law in the function of regulating different interests, creating some kind of sound, some understanding of different entities, and ultimately just that it caused so much interest, so much opposition to one's views. It speaks of the fact that we have managed to bring the compromise closer to this point, that no one is satisfied, but no one can completely deny that at least they have not been tried to exercise their interest through this law. And from this point of view, however, it gives me some hope that if, without consensus, things will be resolved in agreement, that in the end, there will be nature conservation, the creation of a natural balance, the possibility of access to these, let's say, natural goods to all under equal conditions. I hope that by rejecting this amendment we will achieve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u124	The problem with all this debate is that we are constantly trying to encourage those who oppose solutions to one fundamental fact that we are against being a country owner of the game. That's not true. In the SLS, we have not said this many times that we agree with this definition. We do not agree, however, that this is the way property, private property, is treated in general. And they can't go into the same status as the common common hunting grounds owned by a personal hunting ground. This country has a special interest here. My colleague Tsukati told me what the interest is in special hunting grounds. Planned cultivation of a larger number of game, in order to make a certain profit from the game’s spoils. And the fact is, in this area, the enforcement or establishment of personal hunting sites can only be achieved by means of a negotiated solution, provided that the owners, those owners, also have the right status or the right to at least say whether they agree with such a solution or not. On the contrary, these owners will also be subject to the same interference as all the other owners in the common fisheries. This is a key problem and here a particular landowner in this country is treated differently than the other.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u125	Mr. Rokavec [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u126	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u127	Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. Well, the proponent says that he does not imagine that the government would dictate, regulate these things without the consent of the other party, the other affected. Well, I'm happy with his ideas, but then why don't we write it down. However, it is not possible to write down, perhaps, because someone is very afraid of such a procedure. I think, once again, if we want to deal well with the landscape, if we want to treat the wild truly in a balanced manner, then we should give the hunting, local hunting families more powers, otherwise treat them, including the local population, owners of these, more opportunities to participate in dealing with these issues, and then find a completely different, more appropriate, more human and society-friendly approach to the landscape, an approach to nature, an approach to the treatment of game. In general, all of our amendments throughout the process have been aimed at this and virtually all of our amendments have been rejected. In this sense, you will probably also be doing this, and I'm afraid that this is really the red thread of some policy, how to deal with our greatest wealth, that's nature.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Article 79 Anyone else? I'm closing the debate. The vote on the amendments and the draft law will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, within 15 minutes of the final debate on the 18th item of the agenda. I'm breaking this agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u130	Dear Members, honourable Members! Representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! Nicely greeted! We're moving on to Treatment 19. agenda items A - REVENUE OF AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE Statute OF THE PUBLIC INSTRUMENT OF SLOVENIA RADIO The Council of RTV Slovenia submitted amendments and amendments to the Statute for consideration. The amendments and additions to the Statute were considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudolf Mojet, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go, Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u131	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For the first time, the Committee considered amendments and amendments to the statutes of the public institution RTV at its 25th meeting. He placed the point on the agenda, but he withdrew it because there were too many comments by the legislative and legal services of our national assembly, and he proposed to the proposer, this is the RTV Council, to amend and supplement the statutes so that the legislative and legal system would be acceptable. This is what the Council did, and this is how we discussed the statutes at the 26th meeting. There was not much debate, as only Member Jože Tanko, who has set up two dilemmas, took part in the debate. For the first time, he asked the proposer of the Statute whether the Statute allowed the achievement of the objectives of RTV Slovenia and, secondly, the settlement of the status of regional units as enshrined in the Statute. The applicant simply explained that this statute was created only because of amendments to the RTV Act and also because of the media law, and in fact this statute is in line with these two laws. There were no other panellists at the meeting, so the Committee decided to propose to the National Assembly to give its consent to the Statute. This Decision was adopted by 15 votes to none. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u132	I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present the opinion. I call on the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Culture, Mr Vojko Stopar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Government has no comments on the proposal for a statute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u134	Thank you very much. We will now hear the views of the groups of Members. First of all, the position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented to us by Dr. Jožef Bernik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues! It's kind of a technical law that a person understands to some extent, but on the other hand, I would say this. It is a pity that the state or government has not used this opportunity to go to the whole RTV law and to change certain practices that are established in this institution and to allow television to be much more balanced and also more informative. There's not much to say about marriage itself. Some technical changes seem natural. One wonders why we have to deal with such trifling things because other things are essential that remain unresolved. In this sense, we will either support each other in our own conscience or we will not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Puksič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u137	Colleagues and colleagues! Madam Vice President! Government representatives! Good-bye. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group is as follows. In the parliamentary group, we have always drawn attention to the remarkable importance of freedom of the public word as the foundation of democracy. It is therefore essential to allow journalists the possibility to propose to the head of the editorial boards of people who, of course, trust them. This, according to our assessment, was an essential solution to the new RTV law, which is also summarised by the proposed amendments to the Statute. We have once explicitly supported such a solution and will therefore vote in favour of the proposed amendments to the Statute. On this occasion, however, we would also point out that the public institution of RTV Slovenia is again sinking deeper into the crisis, which is obviously a large part of responsibility in the world of RTV and its President. To make this more specific, we received a letter from Radio Television entitled "Problematics of Programs for Slovenian National Minorities". However, since the Statute, in Article 4, the original Article 7, states, following these amendments in Article 4, that radio or television programmes for Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries are in line with international treaties and protocols, which are also activities of RTV Slovenia, that RTV Slovenia must ensure the broadcasting of Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries, Slovenian expatriates and locals. From the letter we received, it is clear that some problems are so deep that some programmes for Slovenians in place and around the world will begin to be abolished. We are also reminded of this letter addressed to the Director of Alex Statkull, the Programme Director, the President of the Council, and also made known to those involved in this policy, of 17 December, where representatives of Slovenian organisations note in lieu of the abolition of the programmes, in fact, the only two broadcasts that open up to the Slovenian public a weekly view of the life of the coastal Slovenes. At the same time, they point to the law on visibility and soundness. In short, a statute will be adopted that will be in line with the law, but predictions, written forecasts, given that nothing has happened in the budgetary debate; I am afraid that certain tasks under the law and the statute will not be fulfilled. You take responsibility for this by those who have supported such a budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Samo Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we support the decision of the Home Committee on Culture, which agrees with the amendments and additions to the statutes of the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia. Amendments to the Statute were necessary to comply with the legislation currently in force, notably the RTV Act and the Media Act. There was virtually no discussion on the home committee; the statute was given unanimity against. Therefore, the second item of the agenda at the same meeting came across so much larger echoes. Indeed, the discussion on the problems of the public institution RTV Slovenia was heated by the report of the Supervisory Committee for the period August 2002 to August 2003. However, this is not the subject of today's debate on the amendment of the Statute. Let me just mention that Director Alex Štakul told us that they are preparing a long-term development strategy for RTV Slovenia, which envisages a thorough reorganisation and financial consolidation for more efficient implementation and management of the institution. This, of course, is what we expect from the management of RTV Slovenia. Let me do it again. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats agrees with the decision of the Home Committee and will vote in favour. Thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented to us by Mr Franci Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u141	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Government representatives and, of course, colleagues! The Council of Radio Television sent amendments to the Statute of Radio Television Slovenia into the procedure of the National Assembly. In the parliamentary group, we took note of the amendments and additions to the Statute and also of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. Of course, the Council of RTV Slovenia explained that it is necessary to bring Slovenia into line with the provisions of the amendments and to supplement the Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia. In fact, since 1995, two laws on amendments and additions to the law on RTV Slovenia have been adopted, and as a result, there has also been a large amendment to the statute. However, in the Group of Members, we believe that it would be appropriate to draw up an appropriate record which could be substantially more transparent in the functioning of the RTV Council itself. In view of all of this, the amendments and additions to the statutes of the public institution are, of course, due to the changes mentioned in the law and, of course, to the fact that the Council of RTV has taken account of the comments made by the legislative legal service, we will support the amendment and amendment of the statute in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Moreover, the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, which will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honorable representative of the government, colleagues, colleagues! Indeed, it opens with a view to amending the statutes of the public office, because, as one of the predecessors said, the actual technical issue is, however, some issues are being raised, which unfortunately, however, are related to the law itself. I also agree, of course, with the previous speaker, that it would be good to have a full review of the statutes of the public institution before considering this point. However, it has been coordinated at the level of funding, the implementation of changes to standard classifications, new activities and substantive changes in the field of human resources have been added. The statute of the public institution of RTV Slovenia must be in line with the law and therefore it is also likely that evil is necessary for each person to decide on his own election and judgment or to support it. Nevertheless, regardless of the fact that we are not talking about the law today, it is still questionable, since for the Slovenian National Party, the area of governance that is being adapted to the law, and the eternal problem that we have been talking about, whether it is right for the representatives of programme workers to agree that it has changed into a mere and mere opinion. But I think we can still talk about this because I am sure that not only this statute will be supported by the Slovenian National Party today, but it will soon be changed as it is by law itself. So, in the Slovenian National Party, we will probably decide for ourselves, but in principle I think it is also our duty to support the amendments to the Statute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u144	Thank you very much. This is followed by a general debate between Members and Members. First of all, Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic, who is not, Mr Jožef Jerovšek - not at all. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u145	Thank you very much. By the way, the LDS Club will support the changes, even though I am expressing the thought that we are only doing this now, given that we have adopted a law two years ago saying that RTV must prepare amendments to the statute within six months of the enactment of this law, but it is not guilty, of course, of this State Assembly. That's just it, by the way. However, it is in preparation, as far as I know, and it is right to prepare as soon as possible, the law on RTV, because all these comments that we can talk about and hear more than once, of course, should be there and the statutes, one way or another, do not essentially solve this. It is also very important and it is necessary to say that the National Assembly is not sitting and is not waiting for what is happening with RTV, but is monitoring these matters. It has already been mentioned that the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport, Youth had a very serious debate on the report of the Supervisory Committee, which is extremely critical and concludes - this is my assessment of what I will say - the catastrophic situation on RTV. The Committee discussed this very seriously and commissioned the RTV leadership to draw up a short-term and long-term programme, an RTV sonar programme, and a house-wide development programme within three months. This will be in a short time, I am sure, even in the procedure or in the National Assembly or in the Committee and, of course, this debate will be able to take place in this way, and I would be very pleased if, until then, we did not just throw flat-rate ratings or on the RTV world, we would be chairing anyone until we have a basis to speak very seriously and very argumentatively about these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Neither is Mr. Mamić, Mr. Petty Officer. I therefore conclude the general debate on the proposal for a decision. The agreement on amendments and amendments to the Statute will be decided today, in accordance with the meeting's timetable, within the framework of the 15-minute period following the conclusion of the debate on agenda item 18. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the government very much for its cooperation. At 14:00 and 35 minutes we will come to the 20th item of the agenda, this is for the consideration of the report on the state of the environment for 2002. Until then, I'm adjourning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u147	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, nice greeting! We continue to work, moving on to treatment 20. Agenda items - Report on the state of the environment for the year 2002 The report was submitted for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the report. I invite the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy, Mag. Janez the Digger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u148	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Knowledge of environmental conditions and changes is the basis for effective environmental policy and timely action. You therefore have before you a new report on the state of the environment, which includes the latest available data, the most available for 2001, and some indicators are also shown by taking into account the 2002 data. This report covers everything that requires us as a mandatory content of the Environmental Protection Act and also takes into account the European Union's reporting system. In most areas, waste water treatment, for example, water quality, sulphur dioxide emissions, greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency and renewable energy measures, agri-environment measures, environmental taxes and the like - in these areas, the measures taken show the effectiveness of environmental policy management and ensure the achievement of the objectives set. What if I walk through these areas for a while? Water quality has been steadily improving since 1992. In addition, quality will significantly increase cleaning facilities in larger cities, Ljubljana, Maribor, Celje, on the coast. All these cleaning plants are expected to be built no later than 2005. The collection, decommissioning, treatment of waste water will be fully completed throughout the Slovenian territory by 2015, when we are running out of a transitional period for the implementation of the relevant European Directive. The content of nitrates and pesticides in groundwater has been decreasing steadily for ten years on average. However, the value is still too high, which is why we have taken strict restrictive measures this year, which have also been widely presented to the public in five wider regions of Slovenia. In the field of air, we are most successful in reducing sulphur dioxide emissions, and at least in transport emissions, especially in nitrogen oxide emissions. By about 90%, the consumption of substances that cause the ozone layer to shrink has been reduced, and we have virtually abolished it. The greenhouse gas emissions have been stabilised and the operational programme adopted this year, with an optimistic rate towards the target year 2008 or the first target period 2008-2012, should be reduced by 8% according to the Kyoto Protocol by reference to the baseline year. We are counting on the fact that we will not have any significant difficulties in achieving this objective. The share of energy produced from renewable sources is steadily increasing. This year we began to strongly subsidise so-called 'green electricity', and this is already reflected in new interests after investments in renewable energy sources. Increasing the production of waste, both municipal and dangerous, is worrisome. At the same time, the proportion of residents included in the system of regular collection and disposal of municipal waste is also increasing. We manage and gradually solve the problem, but it is true that different areas of Slovenia, because it is primarily a municipal obligation, are very active and successful. We have a problem in two or three regions. The rich biodiversity, which is also threatened in Slovenia, will be preserved through the upgrading of the nature protection system by establishing Natura 2000 sites. This measure is foreseen for next year. Most other indicators also have a favourable trend. In areas with negative trends, however, we are already adopting appropriate operational programmes as additional measures to improve the situation. The three biggest Slovenian environmental problems are waste, agriculture and transport. In transport, all trends are quite negative, except for the emissions of lead from transport resulting from the first year of my mandate, the use of leaded petrol is prohibited. The share of cestic transport in comparison to rail continues to increase, as well as emissions of greenhouse gases or carbon dioxide from transport, as well as emissions of nitrogen oxides from the terrestrial ozone. In short, trends here are most negative due to the increase in road traffic volume. As part of the financing of environmental protection, economic instruments, such as fees and water reimbursements, have proved to be a basic resource, especially in the field of water loading, as an extremely effective source. In 1997 a tax was introduced for the treatment of waste water, which is collected in municipalities, but if the municipalities do not spend this money on waste water treatment projects or waste water collection, then municipalities must pay the tax in the state budget. Because, of course, mayors and councils are not happy if they have to make payments to the state budget, everyone has made an effort to prepare projects, invest in collecting and cleaning waste water. And so I can say that we have a real human investment movement in such projects. In view of the positive experience in this regard, last year I introduced a tax on waste disposal, which is thus collected at the level of the municipalities and if the municipality has prepared projects for the rehabilitation of existing municipal waste dumps or for the re-introduction of municipal waste, which are, of course, in accordance with the requirements of the acquis of the European Union, they can then use this in their territory, otherwise they have to pay for the state budget. This, of course, has also greatly encouraged the resolution of this problem. The share of all environmental duties due to environmental burdens is constantly increasing. Already in the mandate of this government, we have introduced a tax for the decommissioning of waste cars, a tax for waste oil, a tax for waste disposal, a concession fee for the use of water energy, a refund for the rehabilitation of mining areas or for the mining of degraded areas, a tax for carbon dioxide, and a few other duties. Thus, we are at the very top of Europe by the number of oil duties. The share of all these levies in state budget resources is 3.4%, which is also a very good percentage or result of the higher-a-vis remaining Europe. The report on the state of the environment before you also includes a review of the implementation of the national environmental protection programme, which was adopted in 1999. In the analysis of the implementation of the measures, it was found that some of these measures are no longer relevant, since the area is now otherwise regulated or the measures envisaged are not even in line with the requirements of the Directives of the European Union. That is why we are now preparing a new national environmental protection programme in 2004, which I hope will be able to reach Parliament by summer sometime, and I hope that it will be adopted before the elections. The report contains a specific annex called Environmental Indicators. This Annex gives the report an additional value. We have used methodological sheets for the indicators of the European Environment Agency which serve to prepare reports on the environment of the Member States of the European Union and of the recently associated members and are internationally comparable. The report prepared on the state of the environment has the control function of established policies and measures, responds to the success of policy management and the achievement of the objectives set, which in most areas demonstrate the success of policy management. The report does not contain a set of additional necessary measures, but provides a basis for the continuation of work [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I apologize, I will conclude very quickly, to prepare a national programme of environmental protection and other measures. [[...]] A report on the state of the environment and the evaluation of selected indicators as indicators of the state of the environment is the basis for the continuation of successful work and the achievement of the environmental protection objectives that we have set ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The report was treated by the Commission on Infrastructure and the Environment as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Branko Janc, to present the report of the Committee. Mr. Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u150	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. At its 41st meeting, on 4.6.2003, the Committee on Infrastructure and Environment considered the 2002 report on the state of the environment in Slovenia, which was sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Representatives of the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy, the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Union of Environmental Movements of Slovenia and the Association of Associations for the Protection of the Environment of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee. The representative of the rapporteur stressed in the introduction that the report submitted was the first to be prepared in a manner such as the reports prepared by the Member States of the European Union. This is reflected in two aspects: that the structure of the report follows the legal order of the European Union, as is evident from the link between the rules of the European Union and the international treaties adopted, and that the report summarises the indicators of the European Environment Agency in a way that is traceable in subsequent reports and that it will be able to monitor the state of the environment in Slovenia in a manner that is monitored in individual Member States of the European Union. These indicators are a special guarantee for the long-term state of the environment, although the final indicator on the state of the environment has not yet been identified by the European Union. The report prepared on the state of the environment shall have the control function of established policies and measures, as well as the effectiveness of policy management and the achievement of the objectives set. It provides the basis for the preparation of the environmental programmes that are still necessary for the achievement of the objectives and, as such, also provides for the 6th European Union action programme in this area. The report was addressed by the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia, which in its report drew attention to a number of dilemmas and also expresses concern in specific areas. Here we should mention some of the dilemmas expressed. The issue is the decline of the annual potential of available water resources, the issue of protection of local water resources, expresses concern about the situation in the Bay of Cyprus, points out the major problem of water pollution with atrazin, particularly in sensitive and more agriculturally intensive areas. It notes and draws attention to the high consumption of quality drinking water, points out the need for systemic regulation and the organisational issue of environmental protection and other important thematic areas. The report was also addressed by the Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia, which was presented at the meeting of the Committee by the presidents of Dr. Franz Lobnik. The Council considers that the report on the current state of the environment should clarify the changes since the previous 1996 report and the direction of development. It should explain not only the implementation of the national environmental protection programme but also the reasons why part of the programme has not been implemented. In addition, it is intended to explain the difference between the situation in Slovenia and European views or objectives and the reasons for the implementation deficit. The report should also draw attention to major global and social phenomena. In addition to the above-mentioned views of the Council of State and of the Council for the Environment, a number of warnings and opinions have been expressed which can be summed up in several sets. First of all, it is the transparency of the report itself, which has been put in place in the view that this should be somewhat shorter and more concise. Now for the individual sets. The issue of waste is one of the major environmental problems. The Committee is concerned that investment in 51 active municipal landfills still prevails among the modes of handling, 34 of which will no longer meet the minimum requirements for waste disposal in the poor six years, and only 17 landfills will be able to comply with the prescribed requirements during this period. The dilemma and question regarding incineration plants, the system of destruction of slaughterhouse waste was raised. It's been alerted to wild landfills. Warning [[End warning sign]] - I am just finishing - on major changes in the space also due to changes in the agricultural field, the problem of lowering river levels, the issue of electromagnetic radiation and the issue of existing pipelines, and on a number of other dilemmas mentioned in the report. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted a decision to adopt the report on the state of the environment in 2002 with the conclusions given above. We therefore propose to the National Assembly that it also adopt a report on the state of the environment for 2002. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Ivan Mamić will present to us the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u152	I welcome all present. The report on the state of the environment adopted by the government this February, and also by the Infrastructure Committee, and the environment that we have already heard at its meeting in June, and it has been confirmed, but not just so. On a committee of which I am a member myself, a number of decisions have been adopted as a reminder of the findings that there are certain derogations from the objectives and tasks of the procedural programme. The point was made that the report does not contain data on the necessary priorities and environmental protection measures as provided for in Article 76 of this Act. In addition to the above mentioned measures, certain measures are not in line with the requirements of the European Union's directives, and the Infrastructure and Environment Committee has therefore proposed to the Government that it prepare, as soon as possible, appropriate changes or additions to the national environmental protection programme. The report to be prepared for consideration by the National Assembly is yet to be concluded on the Committee. The report that we are considering today contains some parameters that are acceptable but not so important. But we, in New Slovenia, are most concerned and deeply concerned that there is a lot of covered and superficial in it, as the Minister of Environment and Space has recently acknowledged on television. We cannot understand why Members and Members of the National Assembly have not received a corrected report, we have heard that it has been corrected - now I have not seen it, I apologize - although the committee has requested it from the government, as has already been said. I think the other members think the same thing. In fact, the emissions of sulphur dioxide in air from the soybeans reported decreased over the last 12 years, but still too little to achieve the target. What about greenhouse gases that affect the thinning of the ozone layer? We know well that Europe is also reminding us of this problem. As regards the increase in landfills for waste of different types and categories, the situation is found to be worrying. Of course, it's worrying about all of us. On this occasion, I could ask the question on behalf of those voters who trusted their voice to those who are ruling today. Where are those promises that only repeat and spin in the electoral year? In the resolutions of all the parties, the segment dealing with ecological awareness is very stressed - even in our client it was, of course - and on this map candidates play. We see the results because promises remain only a dead letter on paper. And what's really done is too little. How nice it would be if the report said that the waste problem was already halved. I have a question here, by the way. Does closing the mine at the Žirovsko Summit make sense when it comes to radioactive vapours? Aren't you already in the atmosphere to a large extent? I have information that there are approximately 90% of them. I'd like to go back to those garbage dumps. What about separate gatherings? There is also such absurdity that crates with separate wastes, where they are held, are stressed to a common landfill. Sometimes the kids collected old paper to go on a trip with money. I don't know why it's not worth it today. Or were they subsidized at the time, I don't know. We imported scrap iron from Germany because it's not worth it again. What is more here than the fact that such a major problem as separate collection of waste is not being resolved systematically. If we do not know for ourselves, let us see how others work, which is worth it to us. Here we can talk about our country's complex problem. What about our agriculture, which is already paying taxes on our irresponsible attitudes toward nature and ourselves? Our groundwaters are contaminated with poison, which has only a current, apparent effect, commercial of course. We cannot even introduce irrigation systems because we no longer have clean water or are less and less from year to year. Does anyone who is serious deal with this problem? What about the use of biomass? Forests are spreading and covering the deserted countryside, and the drought in the forests is so severe that the movement is still difficult along the trails. That is to say that we have so much potential that we do not know where to use it, but we import expensive and environmentally harmful petroleum derivatives. As the last chapter, I'm exposing traffic. Data show that motorised traffic permanently increases carbon dioxide emissions. With such a strategy that we have in Slovenia, it is expected that this problem will increase so much that transport itself will contribute 50% of all emissions together in a short time. Of course, ministers and environmentalists tell us that we have completely ignored railway infrastructure in concession transport. They're right. We have talked about this subject many times, but not in terms of obviousness, but only about guarantees for loans that were used only to maintain railways and to pay employees, but not for new investments, which we have repeatedly pointed out in our New Slovenia party. It is said that the strategy for railway infrastructure is completely flawed, either it is not at all or it is ignorance. In this area, it will also be wise to start working in the interests of ecology or all of us. In this case, roads would also be more burdensome and even any traffic accident would be less because we know that rail traffic is much safer. I hope that the national programme, which we have heard from the Minister's mouth, will cover all our godly desires next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia will be presented to us by Mr Igor Štemberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In today's debate on the report on the state of the environment, it is only encouraging that this issue is finally given the opportunity to talk about it in this area, while the content of the document and the implementation of the government's environmental policy is worrying, weak and leading to the degeneration of the Slovenian environment, which is not a couple in history. The reasons for this situation are more, and I will start with control, which is completely ineffective in Slovenia, which is due to the fact that people do not trust solutions that are environmentally acceptable and provide appropriate environmental protection measures. I have learned that their implementation requires quality control, which is not available in Slovenia. The main reason for the inefficiencies of environmental inspection is the modest recruitment which the government is aware of, but does not do anything and thus continues to enable all violators of the current legislation to violate the rules with care. Even years after the adoption of the National Environmental Protection Programme, which has identified a large, large-scale systemisation of inspection posts, the government remains inactive in this area, so the Slovenian Environmental Inspectorate can only adequately control a few of the largest pollutants, while all others are left to their own consciences or brides to protect the environment. The quality of surface water has stagnated over the past few years, on improving the quality of water from 1990 as a result of the decline in production, the situation is now deteriorating from year to year. More concrete shifts can only be expected after the construction of cleaning facilities, which is not planned until 2015. Inefficiency is also being implemented by reducing emissions of waste water from industry. The problems of accumulation of pollution in lakes, seas and groundwater are also increasing, as they are already so polluted that it will be very difficult if not impossible to clean. It is known that intensive agriculture is among the main causes of groundwater pollution, mainly due to the use of plant protection products and nitrates. This is also evident from the results of the monotherapy of pesticides in groundwaters, which have shown that certain groundwater coverages are also seriously threatened by atrazin. In Slovenia, soil pollution with pesticides is still not systematically monitored, with data from 13% of the territory in Slovenia, although the national environmental protection programme should have adopted the State soil monotoring regulation in 2001. The establishment of national parks, instead of a planned increase from the current 7% to the planned 27%, is an effective example of a bill on the Triglav National Park, which congests the area of the National Park and resembles the National Park Construction Act, rather than a law that rewards environmental protection in this area in accordance with modern European standards. Inadequate agricultural policy causes negative trends in the development of organic farming. The Mačehov policy of the State to promote this activity, in combination with the authorised use of genetically modified organisms, after seven years of persistent legal void and the incomplete implementation of the law on the treatment of genetically modified organisms, has an additional disstimulating effect on ecologically informed farmers. Air protection in Slovenia is regulated in specific areas, while emissions of greenhouse gases are increasing in Slovenia instead of reducing them in line with the objectives of the ratified Kyoto Protocol. In spite of what the Prime Minister claims to be uncontainable, the Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia also points out. The reasons for the increase in emissions are known: increased energy consumption, dual use of fuel oil, petroleum gas, inefficient recovery of wood biomass combustion systems and could also be listed. While the government does not guarantee and mislead the public that the data referred to by the European Environment Agency are not up-to-date and incorrect. The green tax reform already in place in Slovenia appears in bad light, with fossil fuels still not being properly taxed and, on the other hand, the state does not provide incentives to increase the use of renewable sources and thus reduce greenhouse gases. The government has been delaying the preparation of the national energy programme for almost three years, while after a great delay it has already prepared an operational programme for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which does not mean that this programme will also be implemented, and the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions will be achieved The cancer of environmental problems in Slovenia is certainly the area of municipal waste. The burdens of the past, countless landfills of municipal waste, whose toxic water spills are dangerously hazardous to groundwater, the failure to reduce the amount of waste disposed of, the lack of systemic solutions to remedy the burdens of the past, and the delays in the construction of waste management centres, are fuelled by a chaotic state that the government obviously does not know or does not want to manage. Thus, the project of construction of incinerators was burned at the top of the line because of the non-professional and wrong approach of the Ministry. This is also expected to be the case with the municipal waste incineration project in Italy, unless it is ensured that the remains of the incineration plant remain where they will be burned, but not that their return and deposit are planned in a sensitive karst area. Experts also point to the seriousness of this issue, which is that there is a high likelihood that a part that is not the product of Slovenian waste will be incinerated among the remains, but that dangerous wastes of the Italian source may be incinerated. The government's Cagava environmental policy has led to an absurd situation where citizens don't trust anyone anymore, neither experts nor inspectors - in short, anyone. Therefore, we are indignant to accept most of the interventions in local environments, which are absolutely necessary, but, in practice, because of the opposition of the local peoples, are impractical. Obviously, the government has also succumbed to human opposition, which does not hope for a more concrete and decisive solution to the problem, and all it does is, in principle, support individual projects that are completely contradictory among themselves. The fruit of this is plans that remain only on paper, arouse the feelings of citizens and disappointed experts who, despite clear and evidenceable environmentally acceptable solutions, cannot realize them. The government policy has led to the possibility that professionally supported and environmentally acceptable projects, due to inadequate government legislation and lack of support policy, will bring down a single "quasi" bird-lover who can easily convince the Slovenian public of the environmental inadmissibility of using wind power plants, as people have simply gotten used to being safer against them. It is his belief that birds are much more at risk than windmills, than from miles of Slovenian highways, curves and finally the effects of mobile telephony, whose largest operator is probably not by chance, a grateful donor of the Society for the Protection of Birds. The same operator is shamelessly advertised to share the sky with birds. Research to prove what this slogan means in practice, that due to the negative effects of mobile telephony, flocks of birds avoid large areas and have problems with orientation, the said protectors do not mention. The government is also late in drafting a new law on environmental protection, under which Slovenia should bring the environmental acquis into line with the European Union in 2002. The proposal has finally been tabled by the government and has thus ruled out another area for which it will boast in Brussels that it is harmonised. What's that gonna mean? By all odds, nothing more than what the current Environmental Protection Act has meant, which has dealt substantively with the issue of environmental protection, but what if, to a large extent, all of this and in the operational work has not been largely realized, nor have the statutory provisions of the regulations provided for by law, while those who have been have largely been disregarded. A government that does not provide citizens with free access to environmental information and thus exposes them to ignorance of the dangers they face in their living environment is a government that citizens must fear. This is unacceptable, as is the inadmissibility of the ratification of the Aarhus Convention, which obliges the signatory countries to ensure access to environmental information and has been signed by Slovenia for five years. However, the Government does not send it to the National Assembly and thereby postpones the implementation of the commitments set out in the Convention. In recent years, the extremely preserved environment that our generation has received from ancestors has allowed the government to hide itself from solving a wide range of environmental problems. However, the fact remains that, just as a clear bucket of water is once emptied, the preserved nature of such an environmental policy is simply not going to hold up. With such prepared documents as the report on the state of the environment, the Slovenian environment is not well reported. Sadly, however, future generations will be fully aware of this, but they will not be able to punish you for your mistakes. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we do not take responsibility for the prepared report, but we expect the government to take into account our proposals and warnings and at least some of the problems raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented to us by Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! The report on the state of the environment that we have just before us is certainly a document worth the attention of, not only the work of our professional and political elite, but it should also be made more systematically known to the general public. The situation, problems and measures in the environment and in order to improve the environment concern each of us, directly and indirectly. On the back of the report is an annex "Environmental Indicators", which is not very impressive. For only 11 monitored items of 29, i.e. only one third, a positive shift has been achieved, with 9 lagging behind expectations and 10 no changes. This certificate is not particularly beneficial, especially given that very bad, negative results are achieved in water, soil use, use of harmful and dangerous chemicals in agriculture. However, we also have a negative result in the area of hazardous and municipal waste generation, transport, especially freight transport. For key indicators of the state of the safe and healthy environment, the results are the worst. And we can conclude that we do not pay enough attention to environmental protection, enough effort, insufficient motivation and encouragement, and that, above all, less public and other resources are invested in improving the environment. It is also clear that we do not have a structured systemic approach and that there is insufficient coordination between individual key resources in this area. I have a feeling that environmental, agricultural, transport, economic and perhaps other ministries are not working together, as approaches, solutions and measures are often inconsistent. The good results of environmental protection and protection cannot be achieved only through individual measures or with occasional debates, round tables, special days, media posers and so on, but only through the systematic, consistent and consistent conduct of all planners, managers and users of the space. However, if we want all the users of the space to make their contribution by their actions, they must not only be informed periodically, but they must be constantly encouraged and nurtured and developed a sense of environmental protection. The results of the state of the environment are not only the sum of individual impacts of users, but the effects are mostly aggregated, multiplied and therefore the effects of the environmental burden are much higher, affect a larger area and are longer-term than expected. However, the recovery of such problems is long - term and costly, certainly much longer and more costly, than if these problems were solved and resolved at source. The report shows that our common environmental policy has many gaps, that it is poorly coordinated and managed, that the measures are individual and incomplete and are not sustainable everywhere. Of course, I don't just mean the Ministry of Environment and Space here. It is noted that the government does not find consensus and the right answers at possible points of contact and that each ministry, each department, has its own carefully protected policy. There are many examples of such practices. One such is certainly agriculture, where neither the department of agriculture, nor the government has taken care of a suitable and soft approach to transform small farms with fragmented areas into larger, rounded but safe and unladen production units. The whole process of restructuring takes place fairly, and we face two problems. In areas favourable to production, strong targeted and specialised and industrialised farms of plantation or farm type are created on the basis of economic interests. These agricultural areas are burdened with artificial fertilisers, poisons and other substances that are loaded in soils and groundwaters in order to produce as much as possible. In these farms, the use of specific resources is paid for, as income is significantly increased, costs are also significantly reduced and, therefore, such units are one of the most important sources of pollution under inadequate and inconsistent control. Pesticides and nitrites especially burden soils and consequently groundwaters, thus directly water resources and endanger human health. Very large units are also highly acceptable for the introduction or introduction of highly beneficial genetically modified organisms, which may cause a number of unpredictable consequences later in a series of years. In other less favourable areas, the harsher climate and other conditions make such larger and rounded units much less rare, so small farmers fail unreservedly. Each year, they leave activity for about 3,000. Indeed, the decline of small farmers involved in agriculture is extensive or can be said ecologically, and is mainly due to the decline of cultural landscapes. The agricultural areas are growing and the forest is expanding with all the additional advantages and disadvantages. This means that systemic measures to preserve rural settlement and to preserve agricultural areas and agricultural holdings are not selective enough, are too general and are not effective for these areas. In just four years from 1993 to 1997, about 800 square kilometres of agricultural areas were lost, representing 4% of the area of Slovenia or several times the percentage of agricultural areas. The trend is extremely unfavourable, as a permanent change takes place at about a percentage of Slovenia's surface. These are data that we should seriously not only think about, but should, on this basis, take action primarily, both professional and policy. We should urgently prepare measures to address these negative trends, make sure that agricultural production is more even or more dispersed and safe. Environmental, economic and transport policies are also not harmonised, as there has been considerable pressure for a long time on new construction interventions in the area of the motorway cross and the major cities. The industry and trade are increasingly moving to the city centres and the location at the motorway cross. New centres and larger urban environments are being created and the countryside is being emptied. This creates great imbalances and burdens in space, as rural areas are literally being sucked out. This has a profound impact on transport flows, on population migration, and migration is changing. And with increased migration, personal passenger traffic is also greatly increasing, pressure on the construction of new housing and industrial capacities is increasing, satellite settlements on the outskirts of existing and new economic and administrative centres are increasing. As we passed the law on the regulation of space, as well as the law on the construction of buildings, we drew attention to solutions that do not ensure rational use and exploitation of existing walled and already degraded surfaces, to solutions that do not ensure the recycling of surfaces, and to solutions that do not sufficiently protect both natural and cultural heritage. About the decaying countryside, when the building surfaces remain uninhabited and industrial and building buildings are empty, even unique biotopes, such as wetlands, are destroyed at other development sites. Solutions and objectives set almost exclusively capital and spatial liberalisation is complete. The same is true of traffic. All the attention of the government and the government is focused on the highway network building programme, for which we have not had an adequate basis for several years. At the time of adoption, the national programme was outdated and almost unusable, as large derogations were already present immediately. However, in the short term, the political objectives of the ruling political elites dictated a strong asymmetric orientation of transport policy; this has completely prevented the modernisation of the rail network, although the Ministry of Transport is aware of the importance of railways and the railway network. However, it is much underinvestment, as far as sufficient resources are available for lack of maintenance. If such a situation continues for a while, we will be completely bypassed by European rail traffic and all rail freight transport, and thus will be taken over by competitive networks. Many initiatives by the port of Koper have already made it clear that even the biggest supplier of work and income to Slovenian railways has given up and is looking for alternative exits and connections. With delays in updating railways, Slovenia will only take on much more road freight transit transport, which will unnecessarily burden roads, increase the consumption of oil derivatives and contribute significantly to unnecessary greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere. This will also significantly reduce the potential for achieving target environmental parameters. We also do not know how to deal with the relationship between line and passenger traffic, since the latter is on the rise, while liners face problems and abandoning routes. The government and the ministry are unable to do neither the will nor the means to perform and prepare more comprehensive programmes and solutions for a more fundamental shift in this area. Nor can the resources already allocated from the budget for certain forms of support and assistance to liners and users of these transports be linked to the implementation of environmental policy measures. The fact is that policy and expertise know that transport consumes about a third of primary energy and is one of the largest and most dispersed consumers of non-renewable energy sources. Therefore, it is not entirely logical that we are developing the most environmentally burdensome part of transport, namely passenger and road freight. A major problem is becoming large cities, which are a major producer of each type of coating and waste. Some important urban centres do not have satisfactory water collection and treatment and leave large amounts of waste almost unginned into watercourses. Especially prominent is the spiritual, cultural, sports, political and other metropolis of Slovenia, Ljubljana, which, despite the enormous budget and a variety of capable local or urban politicians, is unable to manage themselves and clean up their burdens. Many smaller places and municipalities with very modest budgets have managed to build the most basic sewer networks, build cleaning facilities, and even upgrade them with thickeners or compactors. Also, somehow, we have not yet taken the waste problem seriously. There are still a lot of shortcomings in the collection process, and there are even bigger problems with the disposal, since most of the time we still do not have a secure deposit. Public companies of all kinds and largely unsorted waste are dumping on inadequate landfills, thus increasing risks due to the concentration of waste. In practice, however, we do not yet have an orderly treatment of waste into secondary raw materials. The use of domestic biomass, which we have in abundance, is under-stimulating, with the growth of cultural landscapes coming right in front of our homes. On this very segment, we have an important development opportunity and the possibility of activating a range of industrial and individual boilers across Slovenia, which could make an important contribution to changing the energy balance and slightly reducing greenhouse gases and to implementing the Kyoto Agreement or Protocol, but the steps are rather timid. Energy is completely irrelevant whether wood oxidizes in the forest or in the field of fire, products are more or less identical, but the use of their own resources could compensate imported oil resources to a certain extent and would not unnecessarily import foreign energy and environmental burdens. In order to achieve a more fundamental shift, the relationship between the prices of individual energy prices should be regulated and energy policy adjusted accordingly. It is here that the government and its energy-environmental and economic work are exclusively involved. However, it appears that this government cannot systematically impose such policies, so it is not expected to produce results, and everything remains only at the time of the forecasts. The report of the European Environment Agency also shows that something in the system of environmental protection and the fulfilment of the Kyoto criteria does not work. We are the only candidate for the European Union that has not achieved, even worse, environmental objectives, this is a planned reduction. Instead of reducing the share of greenhouse gases by a few percent in relation to the selected 1986 reference year, which was the worst or worst after environmental burdens, the opposite happened. Our share increased by 1.4%. It is clear from the report of this agency that our actions are weak, slow, very slowly addressing the most important causes of pollution and pollution. This data is particularly alarming given that our economic growth is lower than in the other nine candidates. If I finish. The report prepares us for no major improvements in the coming years. Although we have been successful in translating European standards, most important regulations are already covered by our European laws, we obviously have major implementation problems. We therefore have great difficulties in practical application, which shows that we cannot prepare comprehensive, consistent and effective measures that would at least indicate that the trend will change in the direction of reducing and mitigating environmental problems. The most important indicators of the environment remain poor and there is nothing to show that we are looking forward to making more tangible improvements. That is why I can also say that the government is leading, ruling as an institution, a very poor environmental policy. The report of the European Environment Agency, which is a neutral institution, only confirms this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Samo Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we support the conclusions adopted by the parental committee on infrastructure and the environment at the time of the consideration of the report on the state of the environment for 2002. The State Secretary, Master Radovan Tauzes, pointed out on the Committee that the report under consideration was the first to follow the legal order of the European Union following the example of the European Environment Agency. This is precisely why we expect this type of issue to be on the agenda several times of the meetings of the National Assembly. The last report on the state of the environment in our country was discussed by this high assembly in 1996, that is, seven years ago. In the European Union, however, such reports are usually dealt with every three years. European Member States, EU Member States, have become aware of the importance of ecology and environmental protection years ago. This has been particularly true since the 2001 European Leaders' meeting in Gothenburg, when they found that the problem of the environment is not an isolated problem that separates national borders from others, but a global problem that is still affected by decisions taken in many other areas: transport, energy, agriculture and the like. Thus, environmental policy is one of the most important common policies of the European Union, the objective of which is sustainable development. So, find a balance between protecting the environment and ensuring economic progress and social development. The role of such reports is to determine whether our country and, of course, all other members of the European Union hold to the agreed arrangements for achieving the objectives set, both globally and regionally, and to compare the periodic reports with the national environmental programme adopted in 1999 in our country. We believe in the United List of Social Democrats in the importance of sustainable development. Living in a healthy environment is one of our civil rights. Ecology and environmental protection are not incompatible with economic objectives and employment. That is why we must advocate clean energy-saving technologies and create as many new jobs as possible in the various areas related to environmental protection. The report addresses several key areas: pollution of water, air, soil, conservation of natural and biodiversity, waste management, noise, radiation and natural and other accidents. Of the other chapters, it would particularly highlight the integration of environmental policy requirements, environmental education, information and public participation, and, of course, environmental financing. My colleagues will continue to talk about specific areas of environmental protection. I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the problem of light pollution for a long time. Since my parliamentary initiative on 8 May 1997, it has been six and a half years, and despite many promises, the government has not yet adopted a regulation on environmental light pollution. Please, Minister, make sure that the problem of light pollution and the relevant regulation is finally on the government's agenda. Not only has the government regulation not yet been adopted, I also miss that the problem of light pollution has not found its place in the report under consideration. The Slovenian Environmental Protection Act between emissions from individual sources into the environment in addition to noise, radiation, vibrations and heat also mentions light. Light pollution can completely disable the operation of astronomical observatories and the regulation can provide adequate public lighting from the streets, highways to cultural monuments, as adequate lighting can save up to 40% of the resources. Too much light is lethal to night insects, has a negative impact on birds and poorer biodiversity, not least and above all is disturbing to humans. For we all realize that there is only one environment and that it is our predominant duty to protect it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Bozič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, co-worker, colleagues and colleagues. An important report is before us, namely the report on the state of the environment for 2002. In the parliamentary group, we took note of the report on the state of the environment for 2002. Since the adoption of the Environmental Protection Act in 1993, this is the third report. We will support it in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, as well as the report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment. The report is addressed in a European way, as already stressed by the rapporteurs of the report at the meeting of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. The report shall be written in a manner comparable to those of the other members of the European Union. It shall adopt those provisions in order to harmonise them with the rules adopted by the European Union in a particular area. The report also includes indicators from the European Environment Agency, on the basis of which the European report is comparable and will allow monitoring of the state of the environment in a way that is comparable or traceable in subsequent reports. All of this seems positive to us. We also feel positive about the increasing awareness of the people of Slovenia in this area, as this is also due to the situation in which part of the environment is set. In doing so, we would also like to mention the so-called Green Week, which the European Commission announced between 2 and 6 July this year, under the slogan Change habits. This year, the whole green week coincided with the World Environment Day on June 5. Activities were organised and were carried out throughout Slovenia. As I have already mentioned, the report is European-oriented, but elsewhere in Europe it is a practice to prepare similar reports every three years, and in Slovenia it has been six years since. With regard to the report, we have already participated in the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, but we will also point out certain things today. This year we had some opportunity to learn about how environmental issues are being solved elsewhere in Europe. TAIEX seminars are organized for this purpose. We have learned the positive fact that Slovenia is doing well compared to others. First, we would like to point out the location of the waste incinerator, which is a major problem for us. When I learned how they were arranged elsewhere in Europe, I found out and saw that they had a fire extinguisher in the Netherlands almost in the city, but there was no smell. It should also be mentioned that residents living around incinerators receive no compensation. If there is no incinerator in Slovenia, our Slovenian local envy of ourselves and our demeanored depravity are to blame. I'd like to say a few words about protecting water and using water. There have been problems in this area due to less favourable climate conditions in the last period, the disposal of various materials, waste and so on, particularly in underground caves. In Slovenia, there are significant differences between areas as to the amount of precipitation. Although 41% of the water flows into Slovenia with those rivers flowing through our country, the average is 16,000 cubic metres of water per capita, much more than the rest of the countries that join the European Union. Despite the facts I have listed in our country, there are many areas where health inspection reports that water should be cooked or chlorated before use. In the Group of Members, we find this very worrying. Even in mountain areas where water is supposed to be particularly impeccable, we know cases where water has been poor for several years, due to regulations, and is no longer potable. But it's been like this for centuries. Plant waste in the graves of our hills and mountains has always gone down there. We drank such liquid water and were healthy. Also, 100,000 dead soldiers on the Soviet front in World War I did not poison Soča. We're just gonna figure out what else we're gonna figure out about running cold water. He's lucky to be running on his own. It will also be necessary to address the waste disposal issue of groundwater pollution so that we can talk about improving the quality of water, not to mention a large water shortage mainly in the dry months. I can say that about the wastewater treatment. At the seminar in Vienna, I saw the largest cleaning plant we have and it has not yet been launched, but the surrounding population will not have any compensation for pollution by this cleaning plant. We further believe that the environment is linked to other areas in which the report should be highlighted. We close factories that worked on biomass, such as the Iverka in Nova Gorica and the cellulose factory in Krk, which should be preserved due to inputs, but not replaced by fuel oil, imported paper and imported Iver plates. The environment and the problems related to it are very large and I would like to highlight another segment in the end, namely waste management. The number of municipal wastes is increasing and needs to be given full attention, as there are many problems at the local level with the organisation and resolution of the problem. We organized the first waste collection in Tolmin, and separately, 30 years ago. We're proud of that. In the Netherlands, however, I have seen recycling of existing waste landfills, when we are fighting in Slovenia where the waste dump will be, they are already recycling and burning waste landfills in developed countries in Europe. And here we are in Slovenia mentally and physically in great delay. We have pointed out some of the problems that still seem to us to be pressing, and we hope that we will be familiar with the next report in three years, and that it will be as internationally comparable and as beneficial as it is this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Franz Lenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honourable Minister with co-worker, colleagues and fellow Members! In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, when studying the report on the state of the environment for 2002, we focused mainly on the part reporting on the state of water resources in Slovenia, emissions from greenhouse gases. However, we have also taken note of the impact assessments of the use of chemical resources in agriculture and the consequences of the irregularities in waste disposals. In the DeSUS Group, we are concerned about the decline trend annually, potentially available water resources. Unreasonable interventions into space often lead to bacteriological and chemical pollution of water. The most common causes are industrialisation, urbanisation, agricultural activities and uncontrolled waste disposal. Such behaviour poses a major environmental problem for future generations. In addition, we believe that services that at local level care for the maintenance of water and the whole protection of the environment in general are too fragmented and, therefore, are often not functional or less effective than they could be. We will therefore appreciate any organisational effort aimed at greater efficiency, particularly in waste management and wastewater treatment. One of the measures to protect water resources is also the rehabilitation of wild waste landfills. Such landfills are a major problem because of the fact that often illegality has not led to an environmental impact assessment. Wild landfills burden the environment and have a negative impact on groundwater conditions. Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners' Group will support any effort to support organised waste landfills and the most efficient waste recovery. It is also worrisome that large quantities of use of chemical resources in agriculture are highly polluted by soil and, as a result, groundwater. We believe that it would be good to set the best example as far as possible, but it is appropriate for our environment, in neighbouring countries, where organic production is being promoted by some countries by such or other measures. We are also concerned about the amount of greenhouse gas emissions. As has been the case with the DeSUS Group many times before, it is again recalled that the high use of fossil fuels is also responsible for the situation. We therefore believe that transport policy should be well-planned, among other things. In our view, the road network is overburdened mainly by freight traffic, which heavily burdens the environment. On the other hand, the construction of the railway infrastructure is also put into a second plan due to the financial overload of the country with the construction of road infrastructure. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe that a shift in transport to rail would reduce the pressure on the environment. Of course, we are aware that there are many other factors that increase greenhouse gas emissions, so we are committed to respect the provisions of the Kyoto Protocol, which is strongly supported by the European Commission, even though we are a little skeptical until the achievement of the European Union's target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 8% by 2008 and 2012 compared to 1990. However, we support every effort that approaches this goal. It is also encouraging to note that energy has begun to be treated more prudently and efficiently, which certainly indicates a reduction in energy costs while reducing these emissions. The Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioner considers the report on the state of the environment to be satisfactory and also agrees with all the conclusions adopted by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Also the position of the Slovenian National Party, presented by Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The situation in the field of the environment is improving according to previous years. While the measures taken in most areas demonstrate the success of managing the relevant environmental policies and achieving the objectives set, in Slovenia, according to its natural beauty, it is still insufficient. The report on the state of the environment for 2002 contains national reports from some Member States of the European Union, but we miss taking into account the actual situation prepared by the Slovenian competent authorities. Slovenia, which is rich in water, had the most critical pesticide water pollution between 1997 and 2000. Soil pollution originates from the past, when the state devoted too little time and money to protect these people. In the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group we drew attention to the problem of ensuring quality drinking water in Slovenia. According to the report, it still contains pesticides as well as heavy metals. In certain areas, the pesticide content is even higher than the limit values allowed. The situation is gradually improving, but we must be aware that water is one of the most important natural assets and is a condition for life on earth. Already today, there are many lands in the world where there is a great shortage of water, especially drinking water. The greatest impact on poor air quality in Slovenia is the density of motor vehicles. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, in August this year we addressed the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with the initiative to introduce ecological taxes for transit transport, as Slovenia applies mainly to the transit country. The government has rejected our initiative as inappropriate and contrary to the directives of the European Union, which demonstrates the Government's ignorant attitude towards this issue. Our next proposal on improving air quality due to the impact of motor vehicle traffic is that freight traffic across Slovenia would take place on railways and not on trucks that already destroy our roads, while reducing congestion on our roads with such a measure. In both Slovenia and other European countries, the amount of waste is increasing, thereby increasing the problem of waste disposal and landfills. The situation has a bearing on the environment and has a negative impact on our soil condition. In most cases, however, local residents strongly oppose the construction of deposits in their home environment. On the basis of the report on the state of the environment for 2002, it can be found that the 1999 national environmental programme has already become obsolete. At the same time, it turns out that certain measures do not comply with and do not follow the directives of the European Union. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we express concern about the environmental findings and propose that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare a new national programme for environmental protection. In our view, however, the programme itself should also contain methods that include the active participation of all parties involved. After all, the protection of the environment and its wealth is a matter of citizens and citizens, and it is right that, above all, the legislative and executive authorities know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u165	Thank you very much. We have therefore heard the views of the groups of Members. We will now turn to the debate of MEPs and Members. My word to Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members! I would like to draw attention to three issues in this debate on the report on environmental protection, which I think are not adequately addressed in the Republic of Slovenia at this time. In this context, I would like to hear the answers of the competent minister. I am aware that the Ministry of Environment and Space does not have a magic stick in its hands to solve all the problems that arise at different levels of our economy and then, as such, they are all concentrated within the Ministry of Environment and Space. First of all, what has been said many times today is greenhouse gas emissions. Slovenia does not have a significant share in the global scale, but, of course, it must be said here that we are a very small country and that in all of these releases we contribute only 0.1%. Nevertheless, we have committed ourselves to reducing these emissions in accordance with the Kyoto Agreement. According to the European Environment Agency, these emissions have not decreased, given 1986, but even slightly, I think by 1.5%, they have increased. The reason, of course, is the great use of fossil fuels. Here I would like to draw attention to a fact that has already been mentioned here today, which is the greater use of renewable energy sources. In the first place, of course, I'm thinking about using biomass here. Look, the ministry has already adopted a resolution on the national energy programme, but I must say that the National Assembly has not addressed this resolution so far. This resolution is extremely optimistic. In the framework of the resolution itself, it is envisaged that in order to increase the use of renewable resources during the period 2004-2010 it should invest in around 1500 biomass boilers in individual households, then 50 larger boilers and between 3 and 5 remote systems in wood biomass. This resolution also states in the strategy that in 2004-2010 it would be necessary to install 10,000 square metres of solar collectors, 500 heat pumps. Furthermore, this energy programme resolution sets out what should be done in the areas of buying-in, collecting, organising wood biomass. Just as the situation is now set in motion, there is little resolution implemented within this framework, which has not yet been adopted. I can even find that we are under the 2004 budget, and for 2005 the funds that were intended to subsidise the construction of biomass systems instead of increasing them, we have even reduced them. However, we have reduced our smog because we are counting on the funds of the European Cohesion and Structural Funds. However, the fact is that if we do not guarantee these funds at home, we cannot count on a greater inflow of funds from the European Union. Personally, however, I am convinced that it would be much better to invest in the use of biomass than to invest in the production of biodiesel at this time. In fact, Slovenia is too small for agricultural areas, which is my personal opinion, to pursue projects such as oilseed cultivation and to allocate large subsidies for this agricultural culture. Of course, since the quantities produced are relatively small, they produce extremely expensive biodiesel. We do not have enough agricultural areas to produce sufficient quantities of other agricultural cultures and I think that the strategy in this area with this investment in biodiesel is wrong and the government should consider whether the minister will give me another position and convince me that I am wrong. Another matter that I would like to point out and which has now completely sunk into oblivion is the disposal of slaughterhouse waste in the Republic of Slovenia. Every day our concessionaire Koto covers between 150 and 200 tons of slaughterhouse waste. This then produces flesh-bone flour, which is burned in a thermal power plant. Of course, this whole process is extremely expensive. I once again call on the government to consider this solution to make two lines for collecting slaughterhouse waste, one for hazardous waste and one for other wastes, and then other wastes, as in some other countries, can be used as a normal organic mass for food, not ruminants, but other types of domestic animals, of course here thinking about poultry farming and also the processing of these slaughterhouse wastes into food for other domestic animals. Here annually Slovenia spends about 4 billion Slovenian tolars. According to my assessment, it is completely unnecessary and this is an extremely expensive and non-economic way to dispose of slaughterhouse waste. In the final phase, of course, these 4 billion burdens on one side of agriculture and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the consumer. It is necessary to know that the product is then so much held, as the cost must be calculated at the final price of the product. And another one. It was said here that one of the great environmental burdeners is also traffic. This year, I don't know exactly which month, but in the Official Journal, no. 18, this year a regulation on the removal of old used cars was published. According to some data, we have about 1.2 million cars in Slovenia, if we're counting on a longer life span, I don't know, maybe I'm making it up, but I say 15 years, that means that around 80,000 used cars come into recycling there every year. I know that this invitation to tender has been submitted, according to the data, if correct, to eight interested companies willing to carry out this decommissioning. Of these, only two have been eligible for all the tendering conditions. Commission has been appointed [[I will not read here the names of who led this committee and who was on this committee could]] However, until this point, no company has yet been selected to deal with this decommissioning. After the invitation to tender and after everything that has been going on, this should have been done four months ago. Perhaps, Mr Minister, you might be asked by your fellow Member, Mr Juban, to tell you more precisely, with names and surnames, who are in play and possible reasons. And I would be very grateful if I could learn from you why concessions have not yet been granted and why they are involved in this invitation to tender. Used cars in nature represent a certain burden, and this issue should be resolved as soon as possible in accordance with the European directives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Brejc to the floor, who has replaced the order with Mr Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! I thank you for answering my question, which was "how the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy will solve the increasingly pressing problem of landfills". In fact, when I read your report on the state of the environment, I traced this paragraph among other things. [[Quote]] : "The way in which waste is handled still predominates disposal at 51 active municipal landfills. The cessation of the operation of landfills is announced in accordance with the waste disposal rules for 21 landfills by 2004 and 13 by 2009, and only 17 landfills are expected to be in operation after 2008. [[End of quote.]] That's what it says. In the coming years, we'll be moving from 51 landfills to 17. Of course, the report does not show how. The path towards this goal is not clear how we will solve this problem of landfills in the future. It is stated that the Ministry should draw up a plan of measures for those landfills which will not stop and will not provide a programme within the prescribed time limit, without any clarity as to what these measures would be or what they would be. The reduction of the amounts of biodegradable waste put aside will, as we see, be regulated by a specific operational disposal programme which is reportedly in preparation. It would be good to know - at least I didn't track this data and I didn't hear it today - what this programme will actually contain. I would also point out that the data I received was not consistent with those in the report. You state that we have 61 landfills of municipal waste, 13 have already stopped disposal, and 12 operators have announced that they will cease operation by the end of the year. So, from 61 landfills, according to your response, by the end of the year, they will have stopped postponing 25. This is your letter, Mr. Secretary. In the report that we are discussing today, we have landfills of municipal waste 51 and will cease to operate until 2004, 21 and 13 by 2009. I don't know if I missed anything, but there's obviously a difference in these materials, and I'm wondering what's right now. If I follow the report now, I will, of course, use the information in the report, not the one you gave in your reply. Of all the landfills, it is said, out of the 51 who operate, only 8 meet the required requirements, 10 approach approaches meeting the requirements, which is, of course, one concept which is something I have heard these days in these halls to speak, an instruction period, although it is slippery, is or is not What does this mean to approach? Can an individual citizen also say that he is approaching legal status through his construction work? A citizen can't do this, the country can obviously afford it. The current legislation still allows, quote,'return and expansion of landfills also at so-called risk locations by the end of 2008, which is not appropriate due to the accumulation of waste at such locations'. What does this mean for the environment? The report therefore does not show what you will do in the future in order to meet the prescribed conditions, irrespective of the fact that some are closing. It also raises the issue of the rehabilitation of landfills which do not meet the required requirements because such landfills pose an exceptional threat to the environment. This is a particular emphasis which cannot be explained in the report. If waste is accumulated in hazardous locations, which is certainly inappropriate, why not close these landfills first, or why does this risk not decrease? If you find that some locations are risky and, I don't know, you're pushing them in 2008, then it seems to me that this is not the right policy, that we should actually do the opposite, pay the most attention to these risky locations. How many of these dumps are I don't know if I got a good look at, but I think there's 27. Third thing. The report states that, I quote, "the data of the study produced, the inventory of municipal or non-hazardous waste landfills and the operational programme for environmental protection in waste management are expected to be under-inhabited at 24 locations by 2005 unless the amount of waste disposed of substantially by then is changed". There are so many of these conditioners and Cheyennes that somehow I don't know what that means. I therefore ask whether the Ministry has any programme to address this issue in cooperation with the local community. Fourth thing. She published a very interesting study entitled "Visor to the Government 2000-2002". A very good document seems to me to be very instructive, even for those who are not specialists in this field. It's been a big help to us. Well, we read in this brochure "The Government Mirror" that, I quote, "the government's work in waste management and, above all, the strategic guidance document of the Republic of Slovenia for waste management is conceptually flawed, as it focuses primarily on reducing the amount of waste set aside and proposes the construction of two incineration plants that are among the largest sources of carbon dioxide emissions into the environment to achieve this goal". In this document, i.e. strategic orientations, little or no measures are taken to establish an effective system of separate collection and recycling of waste. There are no measures envisaged to prevent waste generation and reduce the hazardous potential, control and monitoring of its implementation. I don't see the results. Is it supposed to complement these strategic orientations, correct them, I don't know, do anything about them in short? I see that the government adopts the national programmes it offers to Parliament, and then it adopts them, and they are the papers that remain in the drawer. Let me remind you. For example, the second track is such an example. The second route of Divača-Koper should already be built under the national programme in 1998-2000 and the papers are not yet ready today. So it would be appropriate if you already have some strategic guidance to at least correct them if they are no longer appropriate. Well, finally. I also looked at the provisions of the Oalic Treaty, where it is stated that the basic principles in waste management are to reduce the volume of generated waste at source, to increase waste recycling and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to establish an effective waste management system, to phase out environmental problems from the past. Nice words. I believe that the report on the state of the environment for 2002, your report, shows exactly the opposite of what you have committed to with the coalition treaty in this mandate. It is clear that this coalition will not be able to achieve what it has set out in the coalition agreement in this mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs. Montenegro has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u170	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Surely the report on the state of the environment is actually an ideal opportunity to somehow recall some of the facts that are forgotten and not realized in everyday haste, especially now in the pre-festive rush. Colleagues and colleagues, the predecessors, have said quite a lot about the state of the environment and critical views. It is good to know some facts and then to reflect on our daily conduct. If we find that the land was created exactly four and a half billion years ago, nature took 180 million years to convert CO2 from the atmosphere into underground reserves of fossil fuels of oil and coal. And the Homo sapien man appeared 150 thousand years ago. What is happening today is that we are destroying this creative billion-dollar energy, and this is systematic. What's bugging us, and what's threatening us? One must be a major industrial disaster. Remember, France in 1966, when the fire destroyed the refinery in the Ronal region, 18 dead, 84 wounded, Saviesso Italy in 1967, the cloud of dioxin escaped among the people, unfortunately there were no casualties, but unfortunately 3,300 animals died and it was necessary to kill 7,000 head of livestock, in India a cloud of pesticides and pesticides escaped from the Unior Cabbit factory, an estimate that between 3,000 and 6,000 victims were already quite shaken and sad that we will never know exactly how much, Chernobyl, Ukraine 1986, an accident in the nuclear power plant, 50 dead, destroyed landscape, 2,000 people suffering from thyroid cancer and more than 100 born crippled children, the question is what is yet to come. Toulouse France, 2001, explosion in chemical factory, 30 dead, 2000 wounded and numerous oil stains, tanker Erita, Exam Valdes, now Prestige and so on, natural disasters 1997, 1998, 1999, climate change in South America, Africa, South Asia, months of flooding in the area of two-thirds of Bangladesh and so on and so on. About the fires, not to talk. In Malaysia, Brazil and last but not least here near Croatia. Since 1960, 6.32 million tons of oil has been spilled into nature. In 40 years, the number of natural disasters has increased fourfold, and unfortunately the number of earthquakes. We need to know that just over a century ago, the development of industry in the richest countries began to enter the atmosphere of CO2, much faster than the land and nature can absorb. Scientists point out that unless action is taken to be taken by 2010, and that is not so far as we are today in 2003, tomorrow in 2004, the average temperature has risen by 6 degrees, which will require humanity to face the greatest catastrophe ever. The consequences of climate change will be economic, social, social and so on. We probably can't all predict because we're not that kind of cultured. We live every day and every day we need and we are a consumer society and we will become more and more. Unfortunately, today the atmosphere can absorb a little of this. Oil consumption increased sevenfold over the last 50 years. The average CO2 emissions increased by 3.2 tonnes per capita in 1993, to 4 tonnes in 1996. But we can see that the electricity produced by the wind has increased between 1990 and 2000 by 10 times, but this represents 1% of the total energy we acquire. Efforts to reduce CO2 in rich countries under the international Kyoto Protocol reached this number in 1997 compared to the emissions in 1999 by 5.4. This number means an agreed target, although it is by no means sufficient. A large number of countries are still lagging behind in ratifying the said Protocol. We know and remember that the United States, China and Russia have not yet signed this Protocol. But I was thrilled that Canada had done this as one of the most developed countries. It is also important to know that we have celebrated the anniversary as well as Europe and that our efforts, particularly those of the most developed European countries in this area, in particular Germany, are very large. The last conference in Milan also showed that something had been done in this area. How are things with us? These are things that happen elsewhere. What's going on in our Slovenian territory, in our home yard? Urbanization has spread to rural areas, to processing areas. In the last 25 years, the agricultural area has decreased by 78.723 hectares, with as many as a third of the countries and gardens per capita in Slovenia as well as, say, a complete Western Europe. Forests are increasing 50.6% of Slovenia, 43% of the area being threatened by erosion, chandeliers and reptiles. A particular issue is forest degradation due to the air pollution of greenhouse gas emissions. According to some data, 8% of plants are at risk. Underground investigations from the Kranjsko-Sorska Polje, the largest water reservoir for Slovenia, have found that 90% of the samples are intact, two-fifths of the territory of Slovenia is of karst origin and have problems with water supply. The Minister said that the National Environmental Protection Programme would resolve certain issues. We have very good legislation and in this mandate we have adopted quite a few laws on environmental protection. When we look at the Ogleda Valadij report in Umanoter, we can see that in all the segments that Umanoter addressed from the environment, the groundwater, and not least, they also identify the representation of women in codecision on the environment, that we have brilliant legislation, but very few sub-legislative acts, implementing acts that we should adopt as soon as possible. That is why I am asking and today I expect the Minister to start adopting sub-legislative acts, not least the housing law that cries out and calls out that we are not talking about the law on environmental regulation and the construction of buildings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Auschwitz to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to you all. The report on the state of the environment in Slovenia is, of course, correct enough as any report to indicate in various areas where progress has been made and also in areas where successes are not yet in line with expectations. I am personally joining those warnings, including the Infrastructure Committee, which is not only satisfied with the assessment that we have the report, but that we would like to have at least a review of the envisaged measures in areas where the planned parameters are not achieved, at the same time as the report, tell us what we will do. And I will not repeat what has already been said today. I will decide, first of all, to talk a little more about an area about which today was a little talk, but this was not covered in its entirety. This is the whole area of management, water management, water protection, water quantity protection, water damage, measures against drought, floods and the like. At the same time, I was thinking that, in fact, the national environmental programme for this area is not enough. We should get to the national leadership programme in Slovenia for once. This is an area which, I would say, in recent years or during the entire period of Slovenian autonomy in some way is neglected. It is neglected to look at the share of GDP in the past for leadership and what it is today. I agree with the estimates that in the 1980s this area was extremely rich and that this area has actually caused a number of problems. However, we must agree with the assessment that we have, for example, in the area mentioned only in the report, an additional 300,000 hectares of land in Slovenia, which are flood-prone, that we have 2,500 hectares of urban areas in flood-prone areas, that larger and larger floods can be expected on 94,000 hectares of land in flood-prone areas of about a quarter of the population of the Republic of Slovenia. This comes from the report. Such data have been known and unchanged for the past ten years. As far as I know, even the rehabilitations after the last major floods, which have now been over ten years or less behind us, are not completely resolved. Even less or virtually nothing has been done to eliminate the flood threat. My debate is not about being particularly critical, because we do not really have flood risk programmes in Slovenia. And if we don't have it, we don't do it. The great ambition that the Water Fund of the Republic of Slovenia will regulate the entire area of leadership, including the maintenance of watercourses, I think that the discussions on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia are clear that the Fund itself will not have sufficient resources to make this happen in the short term and also in the longer term. I think that leadership has a full impact on different economic areas so strongly that we should focus on this. This year's drought has caused hydroelectric plants to operate at the lowest possible level, especially on wind currents such as Sava. As a result, there was significant economic damage, so much less produced megawatts of electricity. At the same time, we do not have in Slovenia any water reservoirs with which to balance the level of watercourses and also improve the exploitation of these hydroelectric power plants. Moreover, the Krško nuclear power plant, one of the most important or important energy facilities, operated at a significantly lower level than it could have been if the water were available. During periods like this year - and this may continue due to changes in the atmosphere - it would be worth considering whether we are able to resolve these problems in Slovenia with restraints. Maintenance of the watercourses and nuclear again. If we had Savoy well enough, we wouldn't have had the first little bit more water after one year to stop the nuclear, because the water was mechanically polluted to the point of stopping in the cooling towers. I am only talking about the water economy as a segment of this joint report and the urgent need for us to focus much more on this problem in the future. Since I have been to the nuclear power plant for a while, I think that the field of nuclear waste is one we have not yet said about today, but we talked a lot about when we ratified the agreement on property law relations with the Republic of Croatia. However, the ongoing activities do not show that it will be possible to reach the deadlines for which we have committed ourselves to providing a location for a permanent landfill of all types of radioactive waste in Slovenia. If I kept going. The type of such issues that are in this report can be opened, but I would like to stress once again that if the report does not have the measures envisaged to address negative phenomena, then, of course, we ourselves cannot take substantially different decisions, as already proposed by the Infrastructure Committee, which will only confirm that we agree that this is the situation and that the situation in all areas needs to be significantly improved. However, I also agree with the assessment that we can still be satisfied with the environment in Slovenia, but we must do everything we can to ensure that this environment is maintained at least at this level as we have it. If the debate were still possible and if the Minister had the possibility of answers, I would certainly ask him what the fate of the Kyoto Agreement would be. After we know that Russia does not show any interest in the Kyoto Agreement anymore, nor does China, and because we know what percentage it has to be for the Kyoto Agreement to become even valid, this is, of course, one of the issues that we cannot solve in Slovenia. We can approach Kyoto standards, but if these giants do not do so, then our contribution to this will not be a great achievement in a global sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, of course, has the opportunity to get a word and will also be within the time the government has notified at the end, when, of course, you Members and Members will exhaust the order. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u174	Thank you very much for your word. The former mentioned were China, America, which did not sign the Kyoto Protocol and Slovenia, which it signed. What exactly do we differ from? We're no different. They didn't sign it, but they don't stick to it, and we signed it, and we don't stick to it. Well, there's no difference. I would like to warn our country, the government, and myself and this national assembly that only actions count. The national environmental protection programme clearly records everything from heaven to earth, how we will do everything to preserve the environment, in whatever sense of the word. In a mechanical sense, in a biological sense, in a genetic sense, and a lot of other things. Well, in all areas things are creaking. Some areas, indeed, are progressing, not because they would put in some major activities and efforts, but simply when we look at these gases, greenhouse gas emissions, we see that in some sectors it has decreased because one part of our industry has just burned down. He's gone. On the other hand, emissions from transport are increasing because Slovenia has decided to ensure the construction of motorways instead of a good railway network. So she took all the traffic on highways or on road transport, which, of course, caused these emissions to rise. In the area of surface running water, I have already mentioned something. Some rivers and streams, when we look at them when we measure them with these scales, we see that the situation has improved. Mainly because some key sources of pollution have died, industry. Those contaminants who were before have now even increased emissions. That review says that practically more than half of these emissions have been found to be increasing. In addition to complying with the requirements set out in the laws or in the national programmes we have adopted, it is necessary to have institutional structure and staff employment in order to comply with the rules. That's where things get squirming. This personnel occupation is worse than it is prescribed. This also affects the enforcement of obligations. The next thing I'd touch is agriculture. One desire is to preserve natural, bio-farming, that is, farms that deal with healthy food processing. In recent times, the number of these farms has increased, which is positive, but the trend has stopped. This growth is no longer because it is not economically stimulated. Why does transport, if I go back, not turn back on rail or other sources of energy, because tax policy or burden on these resources is inadequate, especially on fossil resources? The world will, of course, have to get together with this. As long as this price of oil does not come close to the limit, where it could be caused to start producing other energy sources, by then, of course, we will be fueling oil and other fossil fuels. Coal and others were paculusd, given that they were not economically worthwhile. It can also happen with oil and substitution, with substitutes. Only this has the least impact on Slovenia, but at any of these sessions it can report it. The sale of pesticides in agriculture shows an increase. As the working surface does not practically increase, but even decreases, the use of pesticides on a surface unit increases. This is for the sake of an intensive economy, but inappropriate. Although some pesticide products do not grow, they may even decline, but some others are growing. In Slovenia, in fact, we do not have a clear and clear picture of what pollution is like in all these segments, because we do not have well-painted maps or monitoring established throughout the territory in order to get a complete and complete picture. It is the task of the Government to ensure adequate supervision and appropriate behaviour as soon as possible, as well as the establishment of a strategy and a policy, including tax in this area. Genetically modified organisms - then I will stop my contribution - and the law is adopted and implementation is weak, especially control. Slovenia is a small country and it will be difficult to prevent it if we go into this dangerous area. This process of genetically modified organisms is considered irreversible and, as once we have this way in place, it is actually difficult to get back to the original devices, to the natural forms. Maintaining biodiversity has been a success in forest areas, not because we would have worked hard, but because we have left intensive foresting, perhaps because of the terrain’s configuration. However, we have succeeded in some things in Slovenia, as we say, in reducing emissions to water and also to air due to the collapse of industrial giants or simply abandoning some intensive activity in forestry and agriculture. However, this is certainly not enough to establish good standards and good conditions in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! The report on the state of the environment for 2002 could, in my opinion, be better. Of course, it touches most areas and many also notes progress in the state of the environment, but I say, also on the basis of the report, that this progress has been made in the right way. Stymies with conditions when large industrial giants dried up during this period, and thus, of course, in the field of environmental emissions, things have changed for the better during this period. The ruling coalition is also apparently counting on this when it has set great goals in the coalition contract and in some ways committed itself to great goals that are not being achieved. Clearly, gentlemen felt that things in the field of environmental protection were going hand in hand. It is clear, however, that there must be political will, technological knowledge, investment resources and more. I would say that the situation in the field of Slovenian engineering could have been good and that it could have been significantly better ten years ago. The technological situation in the field of technology improvement, nature conservation has declined over the last ten years. This leads to the negative attitude of the Slovenian government during this period towards engineering professions. In this country, professions dealing with economics, legal matters, social sciences, those professions that are still needed for the future, are said to be something of an incentive for technological professions, but were not present during this period. There was a marked destimulation of this. And today, with such unstimulation of engineering professions, the situation could be catastrophic if the industrial crisis had not occurred in the meantime, to the end of production in many ways, but this has lost tremendous potential in Slovenia. If Slovenia develops normally, there will be problems in the future because the level of technological knowledge has decreased. I think colleagues who have been in industrial industries before are aware of this and can confirm it. Due to a strong disfavor with these engineering professions. See, in this report, according to these chapters, the situation, for example, water, you say that the success of policy management and the achievement of the objectives set is demonstrated. As I said, this has happened in some areas quite frankly. However, policy management is not sufficient and is not successful. If I just look at how flat-rate you satisfy yourself when you find that 70% of water is used as cooling water in Slovenia, 16% as drinking water and 14% as technological water. Then, as a result, there are problems with technological water and so on. No, cooling water is technological water. The difference between different cooling waters may be extremely large in relation to the environment. Where cooling water is located only in energy cooling thermal plants, there is no risk of contamination and no penetration into the environment into liquid water. However, many of these waters are found in metallurgical plants, and then after some chemical plants, when steaming plants are cooled, there are leaps on the other side. These technologies must be in a closed circle, in a recycling process. There are very few industrial industries in Slovenia, which have almost 100% recycling of technological water, because it is even cheaper to draw from a river or groundwater, to use it for cooling and to release it into a sewage system. I think it was very little done or not done, and I would like to see what the consequences of the 20-year use of non-phosphate water softeners in washing powders are. It's not mentioned anywhere. We know that phosphates from two sources are made from artificial fertilisers and once huge amounts coming from detergents, washing powders, the main source of eutrophication water. This expression, what is eutrophication, I haven't noticed at all, and I don't have any data on how it reflected, and no one has touched that in the last 20 years there has been a change in the area of laundry powder, that instead of polyphosphates, they've started using zeolites. By the way, they are produced in Kidrič, I am the author of the patent and the procedure for the production of these zeolites. They don't touch at all. How many artificial fertilisers can be applied harmlessly to this account when phosphates are removed from laundry powders and detergents? I therefore conclude that, in preparing this report, no professional approaches have been taken, but that these reports are more or less repeated in a template to meet some of the guidelines of the European Union and also the expectations of the public. Of course, the same applies to emissions reductions to the atmosphere. Many things have been accomplished by the collapse of entire industries. Of course, it is also important to commend the Geneva expertise, which, after some modest means, has only made the elimination of the various gases from the emission gases possible, so that progress has been made, and also in the case of the thermocentrals, in the period in question, has been reduced in many ways. Our policy does not guarantee that these trends will continue because it is already deteriorating due to recovery in some industrial sectors. This can have very bad consequences for the international environment to realize that in Slovenia it is not systematically ensured that this is at such a level and that many investors will also turn away from Slovenia. See, in these days we have heard that Slovenia should be the only acceding country that will not comply with the Kyoto protocols. I don't know, Mr. Minister, you've given me one, I don't know if we've got it right, the view that we haven't registered our reports in the European Union or anything like that. Either way, whether we have done nothing or the competent services of the European Commission have not received these reports is a disgrace to Slovenia. And here the government is directly responsible. This is the result of the ministers dealing with all other matters, but not with material matters. I think that there is enough work in the field of the environment for the minister and that he has to deal with it, not with finances and the establishment of various funds, supervisory councils and so on. The report submitted by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment also touched on the rejection of incinerators in Slovenia, the wrong approach to the implementation of incinerators. In fact, I think the Ministry and the government are extremely responsible here. I must admit that I was the first instigator, or first in Kidrièev, to think about the incinerator myself because I observed in some literature that it was possible to incinerate the waste even in the rotary furnaces that we had then six stopped in Kidriè. And I saw an opportunity to activate part of the old technological debates. At the moment, of course, it has proved to be a more modern way of burning at different resorts and that waste incinerators are not fun, fun. In fact, however, the Ministry's approach and also some important pressures to the site were completely incorrect. As earners, this project was launched by some people who have very modest credibility in the local environment, but with the support of the government, because they perceived and also said that it was a state project where money would flow through and can be earned and put in pockets of fat millions of euros. It's probably true. As far as I know the technology, that's true, and government people are very good at it. You don't go to local people with your cards open, you don't walk. I am convinced that the local population would also receive some ecological rents, that this can be arranged and that incineration plants are an environmentally sustainable matter. However, there has been a huge loss here because a lot of this has been done wrong, and people will find it very difficult to convince, given what I said, who participates in these matters, in fact, as ravens on prey. There are still a lot of things here that need to be debated. My opinion is that in Slovenia there are sometimes even, I will say, some people that I consider to be ecological fundamentalists, who sometimes cause damage, because they are as simple as Fiakar horses, who do not see left or right. Such people are as harmful as those surfaces that do not comply with ecological standards and ecological standards at all. In raising public awareness, the government could do much more, much more, if it were to deal with what certain authorities require. We have also adopted or will adopt a law that will make the environment worse, a hunting law that is so unilaterally written, for the interests of a specific segment of important people that will have extremely negative consequences in the environment. I guarantee you that. Here, however, the government elite is not susceptible to any argument and will strongly support all these unacceptable solutions. In fact, this would end, although all areas are extremely interesting and should be further debated, also because the Slovenian public is better acquainted with real and real data and better informed. In the end, once again, I think it's done a little bit. Look at the coalition contract, what you promised, now it's before the end, before the end, of which almost nothing has been done. Why do you promise if you know in advance that you are unable to do so? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u178	Thank you, Vice President. First, praise for the personal report, transparent, detailed, of course, which shows that something has been done. But, Mr. Secretary, you must have expected criticism of the air condition. And I join these criticisms myself. The European Environment Agency tells us that we are and tells us that we are orderly, that we were not the best, that we are the last of the accessions and that we are the last of all 25. Only Spain is worse. But don't let that be a comfort to us. The true report of the European Agency speaks of 2001 that our report speaks of the 2002 anniversary, but I doubt that we have corrected it in one year. If that is not the case and if we have actually made a significant improvement in the air situation, I will be extremely pleased. We know the causes of this situation. You yourself initially admitted: due to increased traffic. Sorry, it's just the way it is. Something's gonna have to be done more decisively, even if it's not popular. We enter the electoral year, where we usually favor the electorate and the electorate, but with regard to our obligations to the Kyoto Protocol, we must do something more decisive, even though we will interfere with some customs of people, of course with measures that will not enjoy excessive sympathy. You know, I am one of those who have been alerted to the fact that we are going through Europe officially, and there are more and more of us within the European Parliamentary Habitat Forum, where I have been working and participating for several years to point out that climate change is a problem, that is, climate change, the problem number 1 of global policy. Worse than the problem of terrorism itself. If we look at the consequences, even in perspective. Terrorism, what causes it, has no way of coping with climate change. Last season, let's see how many people died because of the fever in France, Spain, Italy. Thousands and thousands of dead. Of course, it is not a direct consequence, but it is the deaths associated with overheating the atmosphere. And the projections say we have worse times ahead. It is frightening to know that the world's largest pollutants and greenhouse gas producers, the US and Russia, do not intend to remove their Kyoto Protocol obligations. If this is the case, we will not make a significant contribution to climate treatment in our small Slovenia, even if we shut down all fossil fuel fires, even if we stop all traffic. Maybe we'll make one million of our contributions. It is true that we are not important in the global, but it is a matter of principle that we are able to face the Kyoto Protocol in a responsible manner. So, Mr. Secretary, let me finish. When we consider and accept the report on the state of the environment in 2002, a warning, a warning to all of us, Minister, the whole government, because it is not only your work, it is a number of other ministries, which, of course, must be involved in this and also a warning to all of us that, as I told you before, we are going to enter the year where everyone likes us, we are aware of these responsibilities to the environment that we must gather the strength to gather courage and do what we need to do so that the future report of the European Environment Agency is more favourable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. There has already been a lot of talk about the environmental report today. Perhaps, in the beginning, only in general, what some speakers have already said. Nothing helps if Slovenia deals best with the issue of environmental protection, adheres to the provisions of the Kyoto Agreement, unless, in addition to Europe, which is the most advanced in this area, key others from the United States, Russia, China and so on join the project. Here, however, the key question is, first of all, to settle everything that is necessary, alone, while at the same time it takes a much more active role for our representatives, when we are members of the European Union and also now to convince the rest of the world that the protection of the environment is one of the priorities for which humanity must now and also work in the future, otherwise this humanity and itself will be punished too badly if we have these warnings, which we have more than enough in recent years, we will not take all together seriously. This I think is one of the key tasks of all our representatives representing our country at international quorums and in the future, as I have said, as a member of the European Union, that Europe will also take a significantly more active approach to resolving this issue at global level. When we discussed the report, I was also struck by one issue that may concern a more local environment, but it is related to the issue of waste. The fact is that one of the 21 deposits to be in the waste disposal programme in 2003 is also the storage facility of Shervava-Litti, and in this regard the related other landfills of the municipalities of Zasavina. However, one of the first cases is that this probably will not happen. The deposit of the regional project Unično-Krastnik is not yet ready and will be prepared after all the information now known by 1 June next year. Here, however, I would like to draw attention to one other issue that arises in the resolution of this interim period. The municipalities of Lithuania, Zagorje, have already received a proposal from the departmental ministry to resolve waste disposal at the landfill of Trbovlje. Our municipality, the municipal council and the mayor strongly protested. Why? The fact is that all of these deposits have sufficient capacity for the remaining five months, and it would be unacceptable that some dominant local factor within the Ministry may be forcing a possible solution for this intermediate period. I expect that, in relation to these arguments which have been forwarded by all these municipalities, the Ministry will also act in a way that will, at the final stage, lead to the most rational and allow for the remaining five months of existing landfills to continue to dispose of waste, in terms of its scale, capacity and, of course, to be able to prepare and integrate peacefully into the new waste system as decided by the municipalities of this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Beumann has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I'm actually going to be very short. It has been a great deal, much to agree with, much to agree with, and much to agree with, not least, the discussion has shown that, with great enthusiasm and a desire for a clean environment, there is also a lack of a purely professional question. Here today we were able to listen to the problem of the ozone hole and the greenhouse gases. Those who know a little more about the problem, of course we know that there are two completely different problems and that the problem of ozone is, of course, related to completely different gases, such as greenhouse gases. But let's just leave it. I will focus my debate today on just one matter that has been bothering me for a long time. Now I went to look again at the report and unfortunately I did not find any information in the report on or at least mentioning the Aarhus Convention, at least in this report we received on the diskette. We in Parliament, of course, are talking about the GLOBE parliamentary group, for many years now we have advocated that in Parliament, as we say, we ratify the Aarhus Convention as soon as possible. The government has been promising this for some time, and I hope that we will adopt this document in Parliament as soon as possible, because it is an important area that speaks of public participation in environmental problems. Personally, I am sure that we should devote much more attention to environmental issues than it does to the public. In Slovenia we have quite a lot of environmental organisations, some are stronger, others are weaker, some are more active, others are less, but I'm afraid it's all too small. Why do I think so? Look, we're dealing with a lot of problems called "not and my backyard" in English, in short, not in my yard. There are many attempts to regulate certain things in the field of environmental protection, and immediately there are people who oppose such solutions, if, of course, because it is necessary, but let this happen elsewhere, not in my environment, not in my home, and let this talk be about various incinerators, let it be about wind power plants and so on, not to mention. That is why I think we should do more in this area. And one more thing I would like to mention, which is also not mentioned in the report, unfortunately, nor in the word. It's so-called environmental education. I think that the area of environmental education should give much more attention to what we are committed to at all levels of education, both in schools, primary schools, secondary schools, universities, not to mention the university for the third period of life. In short, we have a lot of work to do in this area, and I hope we can do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Webber, please. Excuse me! It's Mrs. Tisovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u184	Thank you so much for saying that. I will immediately join Mr Beumann in stressing environmental education. I think it's because we're under-conscious. After all, everyone would like a clean environment. At times, farmers cared for this, even though it was manure and all this daily product of their farm. Now we all want to be clean, but we don't want any trouble with the garbage. We must do this in all generations, from the youngest to the oldest, some kind of enlightenment, as the Lord has said before me. That's one. Second, it is important to tell people what a system of cleaning appliances, incinerators and waste treatment and recycling brings. There's a lot of separate waste collection. After all, since this does not go separately into recycling, the waste is once again dumped together, and when people see it, they say whether it makes any sense to do it. You know, if there are such examples, then you can't have an educational influence on these matters. This calls for a full review and, indeed, for all areas to move up gradually. The next thing I wanted to point out was this. The Russians may not have signed the Kyoto Agreement, but they also realize that they have to do something, and they also work in this area, so they claim. But the American representative said, "We didn't sign the Kyoto Agreement, but we're trying to stick to it. What about you who signed it, or you stick to it?" That's how we have to look. We too need to clean our little nursery because this little nursery will also contribute to a very positive part of ecological awareness and ecological health of the earth. For the earth has become very polluted and must be cleansed. If we want our generations to come after us, they can live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Now I invite you to the word of Mr. Webber. Here you go. Mr Weber and some other Members are on their way. Mr. Secretary, I thought you said you'd like a word at the end. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. I would like to draw only three conclusions from my debate: I think that we need to give greater attention to the water industry, that we need to pay more attention to renewable energy sources and set up a clear transport policy. Why? We have water in Slovenia by quantities about 32 cubic kilometres, which is about 16,000 cubic metres of available water. This is above the European average, but we find that water-deficit areas will increase. It is therefore necessary to pay greater attention to the water industry, so that the water that is clearly available will also be able to be distributed evenly throughout the entire period and thus ensure long-term development. Climate change can be detected in the air. Emissions of greenhouse gases are increasing and we find that somehow the biggest causes of this are electricity and heat production and, of course, transport. I would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that, however, we need to take a closer look at wind power plants and biomass heating when we are talking about heat, and to approach a clear transport policy if we are to reduce the effects of transport on the environment. In this clear transport policy, however, it is particularly important to establish a very effective public line transport activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u188	Thank you. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that the report is so consistent and that the position has also been expressed at the Committee's meeting. It should also be said that a summary of the report has been published in the Rapporteur. In my contribution, I would like to draw attention mainly to two parts, where my colleague Janko Weber ended up, I would like to start. I think it is very important that we say from this city that transport policy and transport are one of the main levers of greenhouse gas emissions and if we want to implement the Kyoto Agreement in Slovenia, this is a key issue. My view is that the pressure on the industry to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is likely to have reached its maximum in the past and the continued tendency to reduce emissions is, in my view, counterproductive, and we can also compare ourselves in this part with other countries already mentioned here today with the US and Russia, which are vigorously rejecting the Kyoto Protocol. I can say that MEPs have repeatedly demanded consistent transport policy in the past. The government simply did not approach this, and this is, of course, reflected in the fact that national programmes are not adopted, particularly the national programme for the development of public railway infrastructure. It is clear that by building highways, the pressure of transit in Slovenia will be so much higher, which I think is unacceptable for two reasons. For the first time, the operation of newly built motorway sections by transit alone is unacceptable to me, and on the other hand, without transferring part of the freight to the railways, it seems irrational to me. The other thing I'd like to talk about is nuclear waste. Here in the past, Slovenia has already, or the government and the ministry responsible for nuclear energy, already prepared a nuclear waste management strategy. This strategy stood at one point in government drawers. Of course, at the time of last year's or this year's ratification of the Treaty with Croatia, this issue was repeatedly mentioned. Data was also assured, including by amending the law on nuclear and national security. Nevertheless, it seems to me that this issue remains unresolved, hanging in the air. I therefore call on the Government to take a very consistent and active approach to resolving this issue without a fig in its pocket, as this issue is also one of the key issues of the new waste directives of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Mamić is gone. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Mr. Jerič, he's not here either. Not the other way around. Mr. Comedian, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! My belief is that when we get a report in hand, we can only think about individual chapters because we are not actually dealing with the environment for that long. What I'm trying to say is that this awareness comes to people and society only then, which requires some kind of rehabilitation. So, before that, we're not aware of that. The question was also open to companies and patterns elsewhere. Not all societies are equally fond of this problem. In fact, I am pleased that we have come a long way in the country. The report mainly alerts and opens new chapters. It seems to me that the problem may also be that this report will not be read and that it will not be addressed primarily by those who cause the situation we have. It is also good that the legislation and all the other measures we have in both the European Union and home force all citizens, institutions and everything to ensure that we have a clean environment. Most of the time, we're paying attention to what we see, and less to what changes in the long term, you're reading, even genetic designs. People are so used to things that affect us for a long time, let's say, we don't even know. We have, say, an area in Koroška where people know well that lead comes into the water and that everything they produce in their gardens contains lead, but they still produce and enjoy these fruits, because it takes years and years or even generations before the negative effects are visible. It seems to me that companies have come to this stage, at least some of them, when they are aware of things and they have made a device of a variety that no longer pollutes. It's about air pollution, especially soil, water. I think that even in the congregations they are aware that these things need to be taken care of. However, I believe that there are not enough monitoring, not only at the state level, but also in the municipalities, it would be necessary to manage cases of what is happening and what are the harmful contents both in the air and in the soil. I think that we are on a good path, which will not be short, certainly not, and I am sure that with education and education, on good examples and compliance with the rules, on the control of these rules and on everything else we can come to a level that should not be ashamed of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I now invite you to the floor of the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! I am grateful for some of the emphasis you have put on the state of the environment in Slovenia, in particular the global, global environmental problems. However, I would like to respond to some of the false and false claims that have been made mainly by some who are not in the hall at this time and have thus released their energy and gone away. As far as the issue is concerned, all environmental improvements or that most environmental improvements are due to the collapse of some industries. That's not true for ten years. In the early 1990s, the environmental situation really improved as a result of the collapse of some factories. Since then, our gross domestic product has been systematically increasing by 3.4% annually, and occasionally more, while our emissions have been steadily decreasing. This is the result of politics, not only in this government, but in the past ten years. With government money and state support, we systematically build cleaning facilities [[Celje, Maribor, Ljubljana, complete Posočje, Krško, Zasavje, Laško, Lendava coast, etc.]] That's all the result of work. We have pumped away over €60 million of money from Brussels for cleaning projects. Mr. Stemberger said the water condition, the water flow is shrinking. It is not true, the state of the watercourses is improving, and this is due to environmental policy measures, not only of the state and of the municipality, but is improving. The following claim for emissions of sulphur dioxide into the air. How many billions have we invested in improving combustion plants with state subsidies, the environmental development fund is lending. We have banned the use of coal in municipalities, etc., all of these are political results. We don't have any more problems with sulphur dioxide. Remember 10 years ago, it smelled like Slovenian towns after a winter pass. That's not happening today. We have banned ozone from harmful substances, and they are virtually gone. But we do have a traffic problem, but the problem with transport is the problem of greenhouse gases and nitrogen oxides and therefore the ground-level ozone. We have the biggest problem in Nova Gorica, not because of our traffic, but because of traffic in Northern Italy. We also have a problem in Ljubljana and Maribor. There's no other way. The fact is that only urban traffic in passenger cars, what you see here in the streets, contributes to the emission of Slovenian greenhouse gases by 8%. This is exactly as much as we need to reduce our obligation under the Kyoto Protocol. If we were to ban urban traffic in passenger cars from being gone, we would be very exemplary. In this way, we cannot solve this; we can solve this by using other means of transport. For example, I drive a bicycle, I don't know how you do it, but each one of us has to do something about it. Next. Data from the European Environment Agency on greenhouse gas emissions. In our first national report, which we are obliged to do under the Climate Convention, we have taken into account the data by 1996 and have assessed on the basis of the data at that time how these emissions will increase in the future. The European Environment Agency has used this assessment. In fact, we have a momentary new assessment, which we have also presented to the public in the operational programme for the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, which was adopted this summer, which ensures that we will be able to implement our Kyoto Protocol obligations without any particular difficulty. However, the obligation will not take place in the first period of 2008, 2012. If someone today says we're not fulfilling our obligations, he doesn't know what the Kyoto protocol says. Of course, more developed European countries have significantly increased greenhouse gas emissions than the fifth report even speaks of Slovenia, although the data is also wrong. I'm sorry if I can extend the trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u193	Mr. Minister, I'm sorry, we have seven minutes until this agenda item is complete. I can therefore divide this time between Members and Members, if anyone would like a word. If no one wants a word, the Minister will answer. I'm giving him these seven minutes to answer the many questions you've been asking him. Can I do that? Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, 7 minutes to complete.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u194	I hope I don't need them, but maybe, thank you all. Mr Brejc asked, apparently there was some error in answering the question of the Member State when he mentioned number 61. 51 are these landfills and they must be closed. Time plan, if you look at it, it's a report on the state of the environment. I had the feeling that many of the debaters today did not look at this report, but only a summary, which was published in the Rapporteur. Upon request, existing landfills must manage the capture and cleaning of the resulting waste water by 31.12.2004, cover the surfaces of the filled parts of the landfill until that date, and arrange for the decommissioning of the systems, including the incineration of the gas on the plunger or its energy use. These are the ones that are approaching gradually. Otherwise, what are the measures to enable it to function in the future only 17 landfills of municipal waste are listed on page 52. This is Chapter 2.5. Garbage. This is mainly the introduction of separate collection of municipal waste. This obligation will come from 1.1.2004. So in a few days, all Slovene municipalities should have separate collection of waste. Also with 1.1.2004, in a few days, there will be an obligation to start collecting packaging through Slopac, which is established within the Slovenian economy and we have given it the authority to collect and process waste packaging. Then we have a number of other measures planned, from composting and so on. All of this is more widely explained so that I don't take precious time. Old cars, I think Mr. Sok was asking. We have already adopted the regulation in the government and have called for an invitation to tender. The three met the conditions, but we have not yet granted the concession because one of the unelected tenderers who did not have a full application complained and stopped this procedure, which I hope will be resolved very soon. Mr Jerovšek spoke about the fact that the report does not speak anywhere about eutrophication. Of course that's not true. If you read the report, all pages from 22 to 45 talk about this, and especially page 36, where the problem of the eutrophicity of Slovenian waters is identified. I'm going back to Kyoto. That was the question of what the future of the Kyoto Protocol would be. I personally believe that Russia will not ratify the Kyoto Protocol and that the Kyoto Protocol will not enter into force. Canada and the European Union, i.e. the grouping of countries and Canada, have stated that they will nevertheless respect the Kyoto Protocol as if it had been ratified. Europe has entered this intensely. It also adopted a directive on greenhouse gas emissions trading, which enters into force in 2005. This, of course, is a huge burden for the European industry. We started this in 1997. Slovenia was, I think, a third country in Europe that introduced a carbon tax. With this, we're collecting 7.8 billion tolars a year right now. This must be paid by Slovenian citizens and the Slovenian industry. Mr Drobnic says that it is nothing to tax fossil fuels, that it is too low. Of course it's nothing. And even one of the few we've introduced is very expensive. Following the Kyoto Protocol by Europe will result in an abnormal burden on the European economy, making it uncompetitive towards the American, Japanese, Chinese economy, and I am sure it will require a new reflection on Europe, which is its attitude towards the Kyoto Protocol. But we stick to our obligations. The next question was the location of the landfill for low and medium radioactive waste. We're looking for this landfill intensively. Our obligation under domestic law is that the location plan should be adopted by 2008. In fact, Europe, which is still in the ratification phase, remember these discussions this spring, and the proposal for a directive was here for everyone to have this problem resolved by 2008. The discussions on this Directive have fallen into disrepute and there will be no discussion of this Directive. Europe will not make any commitments in this field. Thus, that directive, specifically cited by the critics of the ratification of the Interstate Agreement, has proved to be twisted. As far as slaughterhouse waste is concerned, this is in fact the problem of the meat processing industry, which we have already suggested on several occasions, but it should be organised and set up a second line itself, much cheaper than it has been for all these years to pay for really expensive processing of slaughterhouse waste. But there was no business interest. However, the country does not enter or lack adequate resources in place of entrepreneurs. There were several comments on the non-coordination of individual resources. In fact, we sometimes have problems within the government, and transport is a major problem in particular, and the question is also, if we can manage it with such an effective ministry. Otherwise, we work well together. For example, with the Ministry of Agriculture with Minister Booth, we have introduced very efficient agri-environmental programmes in this mandate, and Mr Štemberger has said that organic agriculture is being suppressed, it is not true, we are actively promoting it and, of course, the scale of this is steadily increasing. One of the criticisms was, or one of the suggestions was that we should have a national water programme. We intend to have one chapter in the National Environmental Protection Programme, which you will receive next year, which will be called the Water Operational Programme. This will be our national water programme, which will be covered by the national environmental programme. Mr Jerovšek has shown me some supervisory councils here, which has nothing to do with the report on the state of the environment, and I must make it clear that I am not a member of any supervisory council, except two, where I have to be a minister. This is what the Public Funds Act requires. This is a state-of-the-art and housing department, and we're ministers there, you don't want to be presidents of the boards of public funds that belong to us. Otherwise, to be someone else, of course I wasn't, and it was a lie. I'm sorry if I haven't been able to respond to everything you expected of me. The fact is that this report on the state of the environment has made a real effort. I don't think we need to be embarrassed. It provides reliable data, and you can see from it that in fact, in most areas, except for transport, the environmental situation is constantly improving, and that this is not a spontaneous thing, but a result of conscious policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the report. On the proposal for a conclusion that the National Assembly took note of the report on the state of the environment for 2002, we will vote today in the framework of the 15-minute vote following the conclusion of the debate on agenda item 18. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSALS OF DECISIONS ON THE PUBLIC PRESENTATION OF THE SUPPLEMENTED PROPOSAL OF THE TRIGLIAN NATIONAL PARAGRAPH At the outset, I am asking everything very nicely to discuss, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, an item on the agenda today. These are proposals for conclusions, four proposals that speak only of the fact that the law will receive a public presentation of opinions. These four proposals for conclusions are debated today. This is the agenda item. The proposals for conclusions were submitted by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee to the assembly, as I said. First, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the decisions, to the chairman of the committee, to Mr Branko Janc for an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In the proposal for a law on the Triglav National Park proposed by Members Dusan Vukko, Ivan Bozič, Valentin Pohorec and Janko Weber, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia held a general discussion at the 29th meeting and agreed that the draft law was suitable for further consideration. Before that, the billers had conducted a series of public hearings in the park area and had collected a large number of comments. However, the general debate in the National Assembly, despite the decision taken, showed that it would be necessary to introduce the necessary corrections and additions to the draft law. In accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment organised a public presentation of opinions on 21.10.2003, which brought together 22 panellists, representatives of expert and non-governmental organisations, who contributed concrete and reasoned comments and proposals to complement the proposal for a law. It is worth noting here that the bill's proponents have shown a great deal of understanding to the comments and have therefore supplemented the text of the bill and forwarded it as a working aid to the professional and other public. This, however, caused some confusion in the process of examining the bill in the public interest. However, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, in a public presentation of opinions and in a second reading, considered only a proposal for a law which was formally submitted for consideration 2.6.2003. The proposal for a law on Triglav National Park was introduced as a law into the procedure, in accordance with the provisions of the Nature Conservation Act, which stipulates that a national park and an area of exceptional importance for the State and of great international importance shall be established by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia acts here as the founder of the National Park and the law adopted in accordance with the provisions of the Nature Conservation Act is an act establishing the Park. The procedure for adopting an act establishing a natural landmark, such as the Triglav National Park, sets out in detail the nature conservation law and imposes on the park founder activities to be carried out in this process. Articles 57 and 58 provide for a procedure for public awareness and public administration. However, Articles 49 and 53 of the Act lay down the content of the Act on Insurance and Mandatory Ingredients. In the second reading at the meeting of the Committee, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia tabled amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 14, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 27, 28, 32 and 33 and amendments to Annexes 1, 2 and 3. The amendments were also tabled jointly by the LDS, Slovenian People's Party, DeSUS and the United List of Social Democrats and amendments to the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the articles tabled by the Government, namely Articles 5, 7, 8, 20, 27, 28 and 32. The discussion at the meeting of the Committee focused mainly on the definitions of the area of goods park and the protection arrangements in force in this area and on the central area within which the defined areas are defined, which define the protection regimes allowing individual interventions to the area or the conduct of individual activities. In doing so, representatives of NGOs were of the opinion that the definition of sub-areas was not necessary, as European standards of nature protection also allow exceptions to strict protection regimes. The proposer and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia felt that different protection regimes within the park could also be defined in an advanced way. The debate on the amendments tabled in paragraphs 10 and 34b dealing with game hunting in the central area of the national park was quite controversial, in view of the opinion that this provision should be fixed in the future procedure for the consideration of the proposal. The same finding was made with regard to the amendments tabled to Articles 8, 9 and 12, which regulate the prohibitions within individual areas of the national park, but also define exceptions which have been partly contested in the debate. With regard to the provisions of Chapter 8 [[These are the criminal provisions]] The members of the Committee considered that they should be re-examined and, where appropriate, specified and reintroduced in the draft law. In the second reading of the proposal for the Triglav National Park Act, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment adopted a number of amendments to qualified applicants, as well as its amendments listed in the report. With the adoption of the amendments to the Committee, some amendments of qualified applicants have become irrelevant, as shown in the report of the Committee. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has also drawn up a supplementary proposal for a law which forms an integral part of the report, and has also adopted conclusions which are proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and acceptance as the founder of the National Park and as a basis for public presentation of the bill in accordance with the provisions of the Nature Conservation Act. Let me give you the conclusions proposed by the Infrastructure Committee. In accordance with Articles 55, 57 and 58 of the Nature Conservation Act, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption of the following decisions. First time. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia presents to the public a supplementary proposal for a law on the Triglav National Park, prepared by the Committee of the National Council for Infrastructure and the Environment at its 49th meeting, on 2.12.2002. Another time. The public presentation will be 12.1. to 14.3.2004 in the municipalities of Bohinj, Bled, Kranjska Gora, Jesenice, Bovec, Kobarid and Tolmin. Third time. Lawmakers Dušan Vučko, Ivan Bozič, Valentin Pohorec and Janko Weber, in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Nature Protection and the Triglav National Parks, shall make a public presentation of the amended Law on Triglav National Park and prepare proposals for possible additions and amendments to the legislative text on the basis of comments made at public hearing and during the public presentation, and expert views on these comments. Fourth time. The updated proposal for the Triglav National Park Act and the schedule of public hearings in local communities will be published in public bulletins subsequently. The Committee proposes that such proposed decisions should also be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u197	I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present the opinion. I invite the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy, Mag. Janez the Ripper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u198	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Although the government has tabled a number of amendments on a proposal for a law introducing restrictive regimes within the park and setting the exact limits of the park. These amendments were all supported by the Home Committee. In fact, they were made in cooperation with all the public institutions that participated in this debate and also with the proponents, from the public institute of Triglav National Park to the Department of Nature Protection, the Ministry, the proponents and so on. But I realized that it is not now a place to talk about the content of the law and about the fact that, in fact, the law, such as it is, has been made in cooperation with the government or in coordination with the government, supports. I understand that now it is only about the proposed decision to open a public hearing. If I limit my debate only to this proposed decision, I can say that the Government supports it in order to remove any doubts as to the irregularity of the adoption of this law, given the provisions of the Nature Conservation Act, which lay down a specific procedure when it comes to the establishment of a park. I therefore reiterate that the Government supports this. We will talk more about the law when it is back on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Representatives of the parliamentary groups will also be identified by the proposals for conclusions. I invite Mr Alojs Sok to postpone the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u200	Mr President, Honourable Minister, Fellow Member and Members. I will try to take note of the President's warning that we should define ourselves to these conclusions, but I think that the conclusions are so broad that this debate will also go a little wider on the part of the parliamentary groups. As far as the Triglav National Park Act is concerned, I must first find out, as is already the Chairman of the Committee, that this law has changed so quickly, that it has actually been difficult to follow the content and that the applicants, in particular the first-signed proposer, have agreed on every proposal, every initiative, all in the desire that this law be adopted by Parliament as soon as possible. Otherwise, I must say that the way this law is adopted is unusual and is not in accordance with the adopted Rules of Procedure. Public hearings were called before the first hearing by the proposers and not by the national assembly. That's when the referendum came. The referendum then changed a number of things, and the National Assembly today, with these conclusions, is correcting and setting matters straight for normal procedure, so we understand this procedure in Novi Slovenije. The next, if I may say so, manipulation, took place at the very first hearing here in Parliament, when after a few hours of deliberation of the bill, this debate was interrupted by the fact that certain provisions of the law were not specified because there was no section involved in the drafting of the law. Then at the next meeting, without any change, he voted on the proposal for a law and decided that the law was a suitable basis for further consideration. Of course, we then opposed this and proposed that the content of the law be rejected and that a new proposal be drawn up by the profession, which will be inter-sectorally coordinated, both in the field of cultural heritage, agriculture, tourism, environmental protection and in other areas. Today we have a completely changed text. There is nothing left of what the National Assembly has adopted as a suitable basis for the continuation of the procedure, in fact, with the exception of the two Articles 35 and 36, which lay down or refer to environmental protection acts. This proposal, which we are now sending to this public presentation, is no longer what the National Assembly adopted in its first reading in the National Assembly. This new proposal, for example, which is interesting, no longer contains criminal provisions, which means that the applicants have come to understand that they must respect and amend the doctrine of this law. The original doctrine of the law was that everything was permitted, which is not prohibited. This is no longer part of the law, but according to changes in the law, it is precisely what can be allowed, so the law in this model corner is much more transparent. In order to change the original proposal completely with the amendments of both the proposers and the government, this law is clear evidence. Let me just say, in parallel, that Nova Slovenije has tabled in the National Assembly a proposal for amendments to the Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber; a large coalition has rejected it quickly, that it cannot be harmonised and that such shortcomings cannot be amended in the law. The biggest flaw in this law, which is still ahead of us, is that the proponent in the explanation of the law says that this law will have no financial implications for the state budget. On the contrary, Article 18 of the Law raises some expectation that the State will provide funds for faster development in Triglav National Park in both agriculture, forestry and tourism. It is expected that the country will finance up to 80% of these projects, which should also have the option of prioritising them. Thus, the question remains at stake as to how much this law will cost the state of Slovenia. If the leadership of the National Assembly takes into account the rules of procedure, what is taken into account in the proposals tabled by the opposition, this law should have been rejected for that reason at that time because of the undeclared financial resources. Since the law has not been rejected, it seems that only now does the right content come into the public divide and that only now will it be possible to discuss carefully what the proposed solutions to this law are. The very public presentation of opinions, which once was, discussed the law that was and the law that was not. Thus, it was discussed the content that the Committee prepared for a second reading with the assistance of the amendments to the drafters and with the help of a number of amendments from the Government. If I briefly fly over, which are those requirements which have been highlighted by the profession and representatives of civil society at the public presentation. In particular, they requested that the external borders of the Triglav National Park should not change, so that today the Ribčev Laz, Tudor and Stara Fužina remain in the central area and that the extension of the cargo area to the central part of the park should not be carried out, as this would open the way for new interventions to the Triglav National Park area. The public presentation also called for the necessary harmonisation between our country's economic and environmental policies. It has been expressed that agriculture, forestry, tourism and other activities in the law must be defined in such a way that they cannot be used on behalf of certain other laws or actions of individuals or actions of certain political options, so that there will be no change in the purpose of agricultural land where this is not allowed, in order to control the traffic of property in the Triglav National Park. The fact is that there is an increasing pressure on capital to move the land in the central part of the park into private hands rather than to become state-owned is known. The country has done nothing in this direction either. For example, the Ministry of the Environment and Space has not exercised any pre-emptive rights in the area of the Triglav National Park until now, and thus cannot prove with any fact that it is the protection of the Triglav National Park.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u201	Mr Sok, please, I asked you, I remind you for the first time, we are not having a discussion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This is what I have to do to ensure the integrity of this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Madam President. The third decision, which we will adopt here today and which is proposed by the Committee, says, I will read to you that the drafters of the law, Mr Vukko, Mr Bozič, Mr Valentin Pohorec and Janko Weber, undertake to prepare proposals for possible additions or amendments to the legislative text on the basis of comments made at public hearing and during the public presentation, and the expert views on these comments. I guess we'll have two public presentations. We already had one and, of course, it was past our business arrangements, we will have one more, so let me say these comments here.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u203	No, Mr. Sok, you misunderstood. Our task today is to define up to four proposals for the conclusions of the parent working body. That's the agenda for today's session. Any content we'd like to talk about here today goes beyond the agenda of this point, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u204	Thank you. I will, because you have the floor as chairman of this National Assembly, then I'm done here slowly. But I'm still saying that what I'm now talking about is that this is actually the content of the third conclusion. I'll cut back, obviously there's no desire to say here some of the dilemmas that remain around. Let me get this straight. My colleague Vukko and others are talking about the development of tourism and the survival of the Bohinians. They say the law will allow the development of tourism, sports and construction will not be allowed. Whether that is the case, we will see what the presentation and public debate will bring and what will then be adopted in the end. In New Slovenia, we hope that it is not only a well-directed trick and that what potential investors and some fellow Members are proposing will be accepted at the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Make it even clearer. Today, the topic of the talks is, under one, a proposal for a decision: The National Assembly puts forward in public a complementary proposal for the Triglav National Park Act prepared by the Committee of the National Infrastructure and Environment Assembly at its 49th meeting, on 2.12.2003. Under two, the public presentation will take place from 12 January to 14 March 2004 in the municipalities of Bohinj, Bled, Kranjska Gora, Jesenice, Bovec, Kobarid and Tolmin. Under three, Lawmakers, as Mr Sok has already said, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Nature and the Triglav National Parks, shall make a public presentation of the amended Law on Triglav National Park and shall prepare proposals for possible additions or amendments to the legislative text on the basis of comments made at public hearing and during public presentation, and expert views on these comments. And under 4, the updated proposal for the Triglav National Park Act and the schedule of public hearings in local communities will be published in public newspapers subsequently. Once again, everyone in this debate, please identify yourself until these conclusions are reached. There's no young people's party. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. I welcome the Minister and my fellow Members! Perhaps only in the introduction a word at your initiative or at your request. It is extremely difficult to discuss only the four sentences written in these four conclusions. I don't think there can be such a narrow debate at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u207	Unfortunately, Mr. Tanko, all he said to the National Assembly is "yes" or "no". This is the content of the agenda. Every in-depth debate cannot contribute to better, not worse, marriage. That's what's waiting for us. So we cannot discuss the content of the law in these four decisions proposed by the Committee. That's the way it is. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u208	On the previous item on the agenda, we will also vote only on the decision to take note of the Committee's report. And this is about the subject of the Slovenian environment, and we've heard a lot about problems in India, in, I don't know. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u209	Mr Tanko, the title of the point was the report, and we have dealt with it. The debate on content was allowed and everyone could talk about it. The clerk's talking about the agenda. The agenda is four conclusions. Unfortunately, this is the extent of our possible debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u210	The fact is that the procedure for dealing with the Triglav National Park Act has been going on in some strange way, under some special, nowhere written rules, under some special and adapted procedure. Today, we should consider the text of a law prepared by your mother’s working body, but you have probably noticed that this will not happen. Today, as has already been said, we are discussing the content of the four decisions of the Committee on Environment and Infrastructure adopted as a working body after the end of the second reading of the law and proposed to the State Assembly for admission. These conclusions try to give a human image to all of the current, not only the non-profit, but also the illegal conduct of Members of the ruling coalition, which is from these four parties that make up this majority in this national assembly. Such a process of law-making, as the government coalition has afforded it in this case, shows the relationship of the majority in the National Assembly to the rule of law, to legislative procedures, to the will of people, professions, policies and civil society. I have a feeling that some Members can afford to actually enjoy this. They are also followed by their members of the group. Moreover, they even allow themselves to be violated and circumvent the laws already adopted and enforced, which specify exactly what the conduct of all citizens and everyone else must be. Especially should all those who adopt or enforce laws be bound by such conduct. These certainly include Members of Parliament, the Government, employees of state and municipal bodies. However, it has become evident from the procedures before this law, gives little consideration to the correctness of the procedure, the legality, the full content of the proposal, and that they have little interest in the will of the people in this national assembly, and that they can therefore abuse the procedure completely harmlessly. At the previous meeting of the National Assembly, I asked the legislature if the procedure for examining this law was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in accordance with the Nature Conservation Act. Why did I ask that? Because I found that the proposal for the Triglav National Park Act, which was tabled in the legislative procedure by four applicants, was incomplete, it was without mandatory cartographic annexes. Public debates were also organised, which were referred to by the signatories and some municipalities, as unauthorized persons and represented various informal, home-made materials, as true materials, credible and official. These materials were then, if necessary, complemented very in-depth and non-professionally from presentation to presentation. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service once replied that her job had been something and she had warned someone, of course she had not said what or what she was warning and who she was warning. She said, however, that it is right when we consider this law that we face a legal void. However, this statement was not, in my opinion, justified. The Law of Nature’s Preservation accurately prescribes procedures for the adoption of these and similar laws, and the duties of the founder are strictly prescribed, whether it be a government, a national assembly, or a congregation. The procedure is strictly prescribed and the content is also precisely prescribed and the cartographic annexes are specifically required. I therefore do not agree with the fact that there has been a legal void in this particular case. In this case, I agree only with the fact that there may have been a legal void with some small addition to the moral voids, as the group of applicants, despite the obvious shortcomings, have been seen in both eyes. It is sad that all the professional and legislative infrastructure in the National Assembly and Government must be so strongly engaged only to protect the coalition's proponents who force the adoption of law through the legislative procedure. Instead of working well in the content, the services of the National Assembly devote themselves to thinking about how the illegal procedure will be brought to justice, on a business or legal basis, or on how to legalize the procedure so far. In doing so, the services of the National Assembly must greatly humiliate their knowledge, just to cover the mistakes of the applicants, we are listening at a pace to the nagging of the national assemblies. And these four conclusions mean just putting the wrong procedure on track. We are proposing laws in very different and unequal situations because of such behaviours of the leadership and of the services of the National Assembly. When we propose the law ourselves or others, it often happens that it is rejected only because of a single sentence, since we do not write in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that the law has no other consequences. This Law on the Triglav National Park has significant consequences, both financially and especially for others, and has not been rejected by the President of the National Assembly. Therefore, we are not equal before the Rules of Procedure, nor before the Laws. We need to know that by changing the boundaries of the protected areas, and in particular by changing the protection regimes, the conditions change significantly. These, in turn, have significant financial and other implications. If they were not, it would probably not be necessary to change anything and a new law would not be necessary. Nor would public divisiveness be necessary, nor public treatment, nor should it be necessary to obtain the opinions of those within the park, nor those who will remain outside, nor should those who throw them out or those who want them inside. However, the consequences will be very obvious and very great. Also, there will be major consequences for non-park municipalities, as they will be in a subordinate position to obtain additional resources from state resources. When this law was introduced into the procedure, it did not have any mandatory maps to show on the parcel the exact new external and internal borders of the national park. When the trial began, unreadable cards were likely copied from somewhere. In the meantime, the applicants replaced the legal text and, at the general debate of June, maps appeared in the lobby of the National Assembly, which were different from bad copies and did not match the text. The wreckage, and also the humiliation, was perfect at that time. Even now that the law has passed the second treatment, there are no cards on the board and they would be absolutely necessary. Tickets are also essential for public presentations, which will take place between 12 January and 14 March, in the municipalities that form the Triglav National Park. Suddenly, the working body began to refer to the nature conservation law and proposed to the law's proponents that, in accordance with Article 53 of the ZON, they should prepare cartographic material, which will form part of the bill's proposal and will also form the basis for a public presentation. This seeks to address one of the major shortcomings that the applicants have enjoyed and overlooked by the President of the National Assembly. The president of the National Assembly should reject the law because of apparent imperfection, but he did not. This decision of the Committee, however, provides official evidence that the procedure so far has not been corrected and has not been carried out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Nature Conservation Act. All the debates that have taken place in the national world, in expert and public presentations, have also been conducted without adequate maps, in mind, which is unacceptable for a serious debate. It is clear that it will be very difficult for the applicants to prepare or provide maps by the beginning of the public debate, as requested by the Committee. At the same time, it will be interesting to know who will cover the cost of making the cards; the proposalrs are expected to do so. Even before the first hearing in the National Assembly held in June this year, the applicants made public presentations without the mandate of the State Assembly as the founder of the park. The municipality of Bohinj, as an unauthorised institution, has called for a public hearing at which, as an unauthorized official, he has probably shaved the first-signed under the legal text of his fellow Member, Vukko, who is a lawyer by profession, which is particularly interesting. My colleague Vukko also appeared to have written down what he had already said and what he would take into account. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u211	Mr. Tanko, I'm warning you. Please come back. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u212	I'm on my way.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u213	You're not going the right way. You use the rules of procedure, what you read to others, you do on your own. I remind you that's not the point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u214	Yeah, look, I think what's going on in this context is kind of going on, because conclusions also refer to something. It is difficult to talk about just one sentence of the conclusion, as I said before, but a little bit earlier about what will happen after the conclusion. I think this is our duty, the duty of all Members in this National Assembly. If there is any other intention, we can discuss some other matter. However, I think I am speaking precisely about the topic on the agenda today - this is the Triglav National Park and the four conclusions on the subject. I don't think I've ever said anything about anyone else. [[Back-up advertising.]] Comrade Kremjar, it's your turn. I must say, in the meantime, the texts of these comments from the public hearing have also been made. These comments were complemented by the legal text and were used for various contacts with the public, for various presentations. It was simply manipulated. I think that the proposaler, as a lawyer and as a good expert on the rules of procedure, should well know what the procedure is and who can prepare the updated text of the bill. I must say that this presentation has never forgotten to say that the comments made are in line with the Government, that comments from public hearings have been made in the text, that they have been introduced from the SAZU consultation and so on. I myself was present at one of such public presentations, which was held in the Chamber of the State Council in October. We also received the text of the amended law presented there. It's a new version again. A text that should be drawn up by the working body by the Rules of Procedure. However, all comments from public debates, as well as from the presentations by the proponents, have been taken into account and introduced into the updated text of the law only 2.12. That's more than a month later. Only then did we get the updated text of the law. It does not need to be emphasized that the amended proposal for a law adopted by the working body differs significantly from all previous texts of the completed proposals, i.e. from the texts processed and deceived by the public and also by the profession. It is obvious that this case involved abuse of terminology. It is probably clear to all of us now that we have one official version adopted at the committee meeting and it is also recorded in the report of the Committee, on the basis of which the conclusions that we are discussing today have been adopted, and we have some pirate versions that one of the candidates has probably created and have been circulated in the public for several months now. The differences in content are obvious. Later, a copy of the law was made public, which was addressed by the Council of State, which also adopted views and comments on this basis and amendments. This is also clear from the State Council report. The text of the law is now substantially changed in all articles. Only the title and two articles are intact, which says much about the quality of the text. And I still think it's better to reject the law than to risk further constitutional and other complications. At the meeting of the parental committee, we experienced another surprise, for one of the Members, Comrade Školč, came to the meeting with signatures from a village from a trentar end, which we would later like to join in the local park. Thus, when it was shown that the consequences of the missed procedure and the disastrously bad text of the law would be remedied quickly, there was a completely unexpected enlargement initiative. This is just more evidence that the public, profession, owners, borders and what I know are more or less excluded from the current procedure, that no one has asked them any questions and that the whole procedure is probably subordinated to the interests of major investors in Bohinj. In short, we're looking at a black science scenario, because investors' appetites are insatiable. However, the interesting thinking of the inhabitants of the local community is Vrsno Krn, which is quite different from that of the billmakers. These proposed the removal of significant areas from protected areas, while residents of the local community want to do the opposite in the protected area. And it is interesting how different views are on development opportunities and opportunities, which can also be experienced on such a small area of Slovenia covered by the Triglav National Park. The Committee adopted conclusions seeking to remedy the apparent shortcomings and illegalities of the procedure that I had referred to at the beginning of the debate. By means of the conclusions proposed, the National Assembly shall remedy the so-called legal or legal void. It is becoming evident that there is no legal void in the law of nature conservation and that everything is precisely set. It is clearly recorded who is the founder of the park and what tasks they follow. One of these is the presentation of a bill. If not before, it has now become clear that the public presentations of the Triglav National Park Act cannot be adopted by any of the municipalities and that without a mandate, without the decision of the relevant authority, no Member may represent the national assembly at a public presentation, perform editorials and prepare additions. This made it crystal clear that all the practices and procedures so far have been carried out in black. I ask the proposers, the board's leadership and the National Assembly why you did not go into such a procedural basis of the Nature Conservation Act as we now confirm, and it has been allowed to take the matter into their own hands by the applicants themselves, without the authority of the State Assembly as the founder, and to carry out all those previously mentioned activities as uncalled for, without any one of the responsible acting at all. The president of the Committee on the Environment fell silent, despite opposition members' protests, he did not react to the working body, nor did the State Assembly react, and the media somehow ignored this manipulation. These actions have stirred the public up, there has been a great deal of arrogance, and you have also shown people, professions and parts of politics how you feel about their legitimate and legitimate comments. What is stated in these conclusions is necessary, but should have been done long ago. It is likely that the adoption of the law might even be completed at the final stage, as we all agree that it needs to be corrected. That the amendment of the law is necessary has been undeniably achieved, we can say what the national consensus is, but you have managed to completely break it with awkwardness, lack of access and stubbornness in some way. I wonder why this had to be done. I am pleased to note, however, that the conclusions of the Committee on Infrastructure, which was held on 2 December, have not changed to date and that we still have the same version on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Ah, Mrs. Silva Nigga, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u216	Madam President. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing and discussing the proposed decisions of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment on public decommissioning and presentation of the complementary proposal of the Law on Triglav National Park, which was forwarded by the Group of Members Dušan Vukko, Ivan Bozič, Valentin Pohorec and Janko Weber, on 2.6.2003. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we have since the very beginning and since the first presentation of the proposed law in the GLOBE parliamentary group, very carefully and with great attention have been following up all the reflections on the text of the law. The proposal for a law on the Triglav National Park has led to widely shared opinions and divergent opposing views. In our delegation to the United List of Social Democrats, we have taken note of most of those opinions that have a reasonable need to change some fundamental aspects of the implementation and concept of the law itself, which relate in particular to the concept of protection regimes, the protection of nature and the concept of sustainable development and are natural living in space. As we have learned from the opinions of those who oppose the law in its entirety or only in some of its segments, we have also come to know and approve of the proposed solutions to the law. Among them are those who want the marriage to be adopted as soon as possible. For this reason, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we have decided to support the public presentation of the complementary proposal for the Triglav National Park Act, proposed and prepared by the Committees of the National Council for Infrastructure and Environment at its 49th meeting, held on 2.12.2003. We welcome and support the second decision, which specifies precisely the municipalities in which the public presentation will take place, since Bohinj, Bled, Kranjska Gora, Jesenice, Bovec, Kobarid and Tolmin have ensured that Members will be given the right arguments for some of the questions already raised. In the UK Group, we have also decided to present this presentation in order to enable civil society, NGOs and experts to give their views on a number of issues raised. We also welcome the conclusion that the text will also be overset in one way in the general public by a publication in the press. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Also the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, which will be moved by Mr Ivan Bozič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In our party, the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the adoption of these four conclusions. But we will support them because we want people in these six congregations and local communities to make their own decisions about how the new law will affect their lives. I'm referring to the Triglav National Park Act. In all the debates in this Chamber, too much was said in theory about the Triglav Park. You were the one who said you didn't live there. We would also like to ask those who live there and who might also want to live in the park. They should clarify and explain their wishes, for after more than 20 years of speaking about the park, when it was adopted, very undemocratic, because no one asked them whether they wanted to live in the park or not, today this issue is left to debates from 12 January to 14 March of the second year. What's more, it's hard to say. We'll say when we get their opinions. The areas of agriculture, forestry, partly mining and transport are those that are the weak point of each park and, of course, the weakest point of the park are the people living in the park. People want to live a decent life, and that's what the law has to allow them to do. Whether we have succeeded in making a new proposal that people will be satisfied with this, they will say next year at the postponements of the current proposal, which was designed and adopted in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u219	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Beumann, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Tiny, Mr. Tanko? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u220	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In my debate and implementation, I will follow your recommendation and the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. I personally agree with the proposal of the Committee's decisions relating to the implementation of the public presentation of the complementary proposal of the Triglav National Park Act. We support the proposals for conclusions because there have been substantial changes in that part of the provisions relating to the external border of the park by means of the amended proposal for the Triglav National Park Act. This is a proposal, and this is the parent committee's support for the park to be extended to the Kobarid and Tolmin municipality in the area of those settlements that are established by a new border definition. That's one reason. Another reason is that the amendments adopted by the Committee have greatly changed the protection regime in the park area as well as itself, and this is the third reason why the delimitation between the central and marginal areas on the basis of the proposal of the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was created after a preliminary examination of this delimitation, which was carried out by the Public Institute of Triglav National Park and the Institute of Forests. Taking into account this fact, these three essential changes, and taking into account the provisions of the Nature Conservation Act, public presentation is necessary. That is why we have also proposed this public presentation on the Committee. Of course, the Committee also supported it and there is no doubt about it. In doing so, it should be stressed that this public presentation is in the spirit of the basic purpose of the applicants, and we have stressed this every time and at every public presentation, public hearing and committee itself. From the very beginning, we want the law to be passed slowly and we do not accept the impression that we wanted something fast. Once again, I would like to point out that we have just signed the request of ten Members to have a general debate on this law. Secondly, what I stress and think is very important to me, these conclusions proposed by the Committee do not mean manipulation, do not mean concealing illegality. The procedure we have carried out before the first examination of the draft law is perfectly legitimate and legal, within the meaning of the provisions of the Nature Conservation Act, even more so within the meaning of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of this National Assembly. That's why it's a little painful for a man to listen to us overstep our authority. Let me just point out that the legislative and legal service has identified itself on this issue before the first hearing. Indirectly, the National Assembly confirmed this opinion by saying that the law was suitable for further consideration. But the fact is, on the committee itself, the amendments I initially mentioned are substantial changes, and we think it is appropriate to inform the people in the area where these changes are taking place. I am talking about changing the external borders and also changing the central area in some way and in some part of the protection regimes. To all those who, however, speak on my own behalf, because I do not have the powers of the other co-signors of the law to do so - who think that I have exceeded the power to do so because this is a serious charge, please inform the competent authorities that determine who has committed the offence of exceeding the powers. Once again, I would like to point out that in this respect, we have acted legally from the outset and that we are assessing that, in view of these changes that have taken place on the Committee, this is necessary. And one more thing before I finish. Today it has already been heard, and now these four Members, who are not qualified to form opinions and proposals, will do something. I ask all colleagues present to read the third draft of the decision, which says that the bill's proponents - and I will not list them - in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Nature Protection and the Public Institute of the Triglav National Park, make a public presentation and prepare proposals for any changes. It is a matter of seeing what remains to be done, and then together, in cooperation with these bodies and institutions, we will draw up views on the comments and inform the National Assembly on the basis of which all Members and Members, Members of Parliament or other groups of Members, qualified as required by the Rules of Procedure, can submit them to this amended proposal and will then be considered by this Assembly in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u221	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate on the proposed conclusions. I called a few of the people who had been notified to the debate, but they weren't in the hall. There's still time to finish the point. If anyone would like another word on the proposals for conclusions, please raise your hand now. Two. Here you go, five minutes each to discuss it, then we'll finish it. First Mr. Skull, then Mr. Butolen. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u222	Thank you very much. I would also support these conclusions by arguing that those Members who doubt all these procedures may, within these two months, at least be informed of what we call the territory of the Triglav National Park. Comrade Tanko, who is not currently here, spoke about the trentar villages, which are either Krn or village in Baska Grapa, which the inhabitants of this village would be interested in the potential expansion of the park. I would like to tell him from this city that from Krn village to Trenta is more than from Ljubljana to Ribnica. So it is only necessary to discuss these things with a great deal of data and knowledge and to make use of these two months, at least from my point of view, even for discussion with the people of Baska Grapa, Tolminska, Kobariška and Bovške, in the part where the park or the farm area of the park could be extended. Such a decision can, of course, only be long-term for these places, and in this sense, I expect that everyone who can participate in clearing up the conditions for life in the park will participate in it and, of course, I hope that the end of this debate will bring about a larger and no smaller park, as indicated at the beginning of the initiative to adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u223	Thank you very much. And Mr. Butolen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u224	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Actually, I volunteered for the debate earlier, and I kind of fell out. In fact, in the end, because there is almost nothing left to discuss, I would like to protest in some way for the conduct of today's debate, which has somehow become a model for leading the debate in this National Assembly. Some Members simply say the same if the first is the case, if the second is the case, if there are any conclusions or any other considerations on the proposal. They always hold a general debate. Today we had four conclusions in the debate, so I would like to define up to these four conclusions, not procedurally discussing the contents of the Triglav National Park in general. I agree that a public presentation is necessary and will contribute to the legitimacy and quality of the complementary bill. I also agree with the places where this presentation will be carried out, and also with the time in which this presentation will take place. I also support the conclusion that the proposer, the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Institute for the Protection of Natural Heritage and the Public Institute of the Triglav National Park should prepare an additional proposal for the law, as this will lead to the omission of the obvious manipulation by four fellow Members. And, of course, I finally agree with the way in which this law's complementary proposal is tracked. Everything else that other colleagues debated, I do not think was the subject of today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u225	Thank you very much. So I conclude the debate. No amendments have been tabled to the draft conclusions, so we will vote today in the context of the vote, which we will begin in 15 minutes, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting on the conclusions. At 6:52 p.m., let's start the decision. So I'd like to ask everyone to be in the hall at 6:52 p.m. This concludes this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u226	Dear Members and honourable Members, representatives of the government, good evening! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. First, we continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - third reading of the proposal of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. May I have your attention, please, and please check to see if the voting devices are in their seats. First of all, we will vote on the amendment of the LDS MPs and the members of the United List of Social Democrats and DeSUS to Article 1, with a footnote, if this amendment is adopted, the next amendment to this article, which is proposed by the New Slovenia parliamentary group, becomes irrelevant. We therefore vote first on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 1. I'd ask for your attention so there won't be any mistakes. We're voting. Vote explanation, Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will vote in favour of this amendment. But what I want to say is that under the Constitution and the laws, the state can also do this with regard to the national communities. This has never happened in the 12 years that this country existed. I mean, with all due respect to hunting families, whose members are all hunters, thank God, this can happen to hunters and not to national communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u228	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to the vote on the amendment under Article 1 to 1. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 39 votes against 20. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and therefore the amendment under Article 2 to 1 has become irrelevant. We turn to the vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 6. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 22 votes against 35. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to a vote on the three amendments to Article 13. Under number 1, we will vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group, under 2 on the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group and under number 3 on the second amendment of the Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group, with a note, if the amendment under number 1 is adopted, the amendment under 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 18 votes against 41. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Therefore, we decide on the amendment under order number 2. Vote explanation, Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u229	Thank you for your word. Of course, I will support this amendment, because the procedure for planning hunting areas and the tasks related to this institution planning are much clearer. In fact, this amendment says that the institution must comply with the other participants in the planning of this plan. The definition, which is now defined, is the definition of cooperation. This cooperation, however, can be a very different definition, which everyone in this process can have very different ideas. Since the previous amendment has not been adopted, I believe that this amendment is the minimum compromise that would have been necessary to unleash conflicts in this area in favour of all participants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u230	Thank you very much. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 65 of us present, 23 votes against 39. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. And also the amendment under order number 3 to Article 13. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 26 votes against 34. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it this amendment has not been adopted either. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS House of Members and the United Nations and DeSUS Group of Members to Article 19. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 43 votes against 6. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment of the same motioners to Article 21. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 45 votes against 11. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party to Article 24. We're voting. There are 65 of us present, 11 votes against 38. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the two amendments to Article 26, under 1 being the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, with a note if it becomes the next amendment of which the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group is irrelevant. We're voting on amendment number one. There are 61 of us present, 18 votes against 40. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. That's why we're deciding on an amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 20 votes against 38. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats to Article 43. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Explanation of voice. Mr Kramberger, please. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I just wanted to point out that we do not support this amendment for a reason, because it is better for the law to define solutions legally, because this way it will be possible to clearly define by means of sub-legislative acts the way in which hunting is done here, as it is thus prevented by this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Beumann, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u233	Thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u234	Just a minute. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall. Under the rules of procedure, everyone who discusses has the right to peace and it is very difficult to ensure it. I'm asking for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u235	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I rarely explain my voice, but now I use it because I literally ask you, on behalf of the animals, to support this amendment, because I am sure that it is an unethical form of hunting. I'm sure it's animal torture, I'm sure it's a violation of the animal protection law, and I hope we can fix the big mistake we made at the second reading, and we supported this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mrs. Majnik. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall. Mrs. Majnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u237	Thank you very much. When I represented the position of the Member Club, I said that we would vote differently, so let me say in my name that I will vote against the amendment, because all the letters sent by the Sokolars' societies and associations convinced me. For I am convinced that the falcons in the so-called captivity are extremely concerned about those who love falcons, and because I am convinced that any in captivity eats fewer other birds than the falcons who live free in nature, which no one controls, what and when they eat. According to data sent by falconers, how large the catch was in one hunting season, that is 95 cases of seized game, of which 80 more grey crows are too many. And since the inclusion of falcon in the law has also been supported by the Forest Institute and the Ljubljana Airport, which refers to the use of falconers in protecting airports, I will vote against this amendment myself. I said, however, that we are divided in the Group of Members and that each of us will vote in his own way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Explanation of vote, Mr Kacin, then Mrs Areh Lavrič, then Mr Battelli. I'm sorry. I have a great problem, Your Honor, you who have the right to explain your voice. Once again, I ask for peace in the hall. Here you go, Mr. Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will speak for myself, not on behalf of the animals, not on behalf of the full-year voters in my district who elected me, but the hunt with the falcon is just one way of hunting. We know how to hunt with the use of a hound dog. Sometimes they fish with cormorants, and that's comparable, so I think this story about the falcons is easy to navigate. The bites were made years ago when the bites were protected. And for the past 15 years, we can see more and more bites along the roads, picking up the birds that have been driven, rolling, on the roads. These bites are more than enough. When the harsh winters take place, many bites die. When it's warm winters, he spends more of them. That's why I think the story of a pair of hawks attracted to hair. It's cheating. And I just can't support this kind of scheming. If we have decided to adopt a law on hunting, on hunting, then it is only right to define ourselves also to hunt with a hawk, and to define this as precisely as possible in order to minimise the abuse. That's why I just can't do this amendment, and that's why I won't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mrs. Areh Lavrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u241	Thank you very much, Madam President. Since the motioners have not convinced me with anything that I would be in favour of this amendment, I will vote against this amendment to Article 43. I will vote as I voted at the 31st meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli, explanation of vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. There was no debate when, in the same national assembly, with the same government majority, there was no law on the special rights of the Italian, Hungarian national communities in the field of education. There was no debate at all. When this awkwardness became apparent, someone made a formal call. So it was obviously agreed that the text proposed was perfect. Now, about these falconers. I used to hunt birds and fish and so on. But I'm reminding you, for example, that a 12-millimeter lead bullet in a deer's body makes such a decomposition that only the man who saw it can figure it out. Some of us have seen that in humans. I was taught to kill in the army with my hands. I'll hold on to this article. I don't know if a child learns to tame a falcon and then use it naturally, it's better than using a 12-millimeter bullet.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, an explanation of the voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u245	Thank you for your word. I will vote in favour of this amendment. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are made just by eating living things and every day, yes, we eat them, but to eat them, dead, we kill them every day, huge. And, I mean for sport and to preserve nature to kill a man, it seems to me that it is quite enough that you have a rifle to go there and it seems fair to me from fishermen not to let them catch and then kill the prey by giving them live baits. It seems to me that a person would train a second, less developed creature at the level of intelligence to kill for his purpose, doesn't seem very humane to me, so it seems to me that the rifle is more than enough and that's why I'm also going to keep the birds bites, not that they're being specially trained for that purpose. I will therefore vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, an explanation of the voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u247	Thank you. I will support the amendment, and not just because we tabled it, but because personally, if it were given to me, I would try to act in a direction that would lead to the cessation of hunting and killing of animals. I am aware that it is not possible today that we are not yet at this civilisation stage, but we can also discipline the hunt in such a way that the most barbaric forms that most European countries are also gradually leaving are, of course, phased out. I will vote in favour of this amendment from this title.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Potts, an explanation of the voice. Please, for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The content of the debate on this issue shows that we did the right thing in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats because we gave the Assembly a second review and tested the decision it had taken a month ago in the second reading. I will not read anyone such or any other vote, nor friendship, nor hatred for nature or for animals, but I would be glad if no one else did, and no one else did, and if we had a different opinion, we would not be accused of demagogism or anything like that. After that, we are divided, and the profession is divided. Personally, those who have already been quoted, from the Ministry of Environment and Space, the agencies of the Republic of Slovenia for the environment, the Institute of Nature Protection, the Faculty of Biotechnical Engineering, the Museum of Natural History of Slovenia, the Internal Regional Park and some civil society organisations, have convinced me that there are insufficient reasons for allowing falcon hunting. This, once again, does not mean that it is impossible for organised falconers to continue to engage in hawking as they have done so far, nor has hunting with a falcon in the law been envisaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I will vote against this amendment. I'm surprised how much we've engaged in a case that's so irrelevant within the law's solution, it doesn't deserve much attention. I have already said in the debate that falconing, if solved in one way or another, will not depend on this solution in any way. There are several cases in Slovenia and solutions, as we have adopted in the second reading, all neighbouring countries have. I estimate that there can be a similar solution in our country, controlled and targeted, and that there are many problems with the protection of animals worse than just falsifying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, explain your voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u253	Thank you very much. I'm going to support this amendment because, in principle, I object to hunting for passion, for fun and the like. I only allow it when some species has no natural enemies; we know which species is the only one in Slovenia. It's permissible there, and you can reach out there. So I object to this being introduced, so I will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u254	Thank you very much. I don't think I missed anyone. All those of you who wanted to explain your voice. We are therefore moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 43. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 30 votes against 26. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a vote on Article 44 and the two amendments to this Article. Under number 1, the amendment of the LDS Club of Parliament and of the United Nations and DeSUS Group of Members, under the two amendments of the Slovenian People's Party Group, with a note, if the amendment under 1 is adopted, becomes an amendment under 2 irrelevant. We are voting on amendment number one. There are 57 of us present, 45 votes against 4. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that amendment number one has been adopted, so the amendment under number two has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the three coalition groups to Article 45. We're voting. There are 57 of us present. 43 votes against 4. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the two amendments to Article 54. Under number 1, the amendment is the amendment of the three coalition groups and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Party's Parliamentary Group. We are voting on amendment number one. There are 57 of us present, in favour of 42 votes against 9. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're voting on amendment number two. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 17 votes against 38. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move to a vote on the four amendments to Article 78. Under 1 is the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, under 2 amendments of the LDS Club and the ZLSD and DeSUS groups, under 3 amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and under 4 members of the New Slovenia Group. First, we vote on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 12 votes against 38. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're voting on amendment number two. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 42 votes against 6. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're voting on amendment number three. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 11 votes against 39. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are still voting on the amendment under 4. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 13 votes against 39. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the last amendment, namely the amendment of the SLS Group of Members to Article 79. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 16 votes against 39. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it this amendment has not been adopted either. We ended the vote on the amendments. I am asking the representative of the legislative and legal service, Mrs Tina Bitenc, whether, because of the amendments adopted, the law is inconsistent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u255	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. In the legislative and legal service under Rule 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we find that the following inconsistencies have arisen in the legislative procedure for the adoption of this law, as a result of the amendments adopted. Firstly, the adoption of the amendment on Articles 24 and 26 specified a concession for the sustainable management of game in hunting. The text of Article 18 should therefore also be adapted to these solutions. Secondly, as a result of the amendment adopted to Article 21 whereby regional associations of fisheries operators acquire public powers, it is also necessary to harmonise Article 22 which lists those entities exercising those public powers. Thirdly, the adopted amendment to Article 42, which amended its content, also requires the adaptation of Article 48 in the second paragraph. In view of the amendments adopted to several articles in the substantive part of the law establishing the texts in a different text or the original texts being supplemented, it is also necessary to harmonise the criminal provisions and to sanction the amended or additional content with them. It is therefore necessary to adapt the text of Articles 75, 76 and 77. These criminal provisions must also be harmonised because the amendment in Article 75 has brought a fine. In view of the amendment adopted to Article 75, i.e. by the adoption of a fine, a new Article 77a should be inserted in the transitional provisions, in which money penalties may be imposed at the time of the entry into force of the offence law. These would be the inconsistencies we've identified in the meantime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Since the law is inconsistent, I interrupt this item on the agenda and ask the applicants to prepare a harmonisation amendment. The National Assembly will carry out the coordination procedure tomorrow, following the last item on the agenda. Procedural question, Mr. Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u257	Thank you for your word. Make it quick. When I listened to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, I wonder whether all these disagreements caused by the amendments adopted can be resolved until tomorrow's decision in the National Assembly. I think it's probably going to be a very deep substantive intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u258	Thank you very much. The applicants will prepare a harmonisation amendment, and we will do the procedure with it, as I announced. If they don't make it, we're not gonna end this point. I therefore interrupt this item on the agenda and ask the applicants to prepare a harmonisation amendment. We'll decide on him tomorrow after the last part of the agenda. We are now continuing with the end of the 19th item of the agenda - dealing with amendments and the completion of the statute of the public institution of RTV Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia I ask again for peace in the hall! Some listen to what we vote on. Mr. Kangler! I'm sorry, but some people are really waving at me because they want to hear what we're going to vote on, and some are relentlessly disturbing the session. We will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees with the amendments and amendments to the statutes of the public institution RTV Slovenia adopted by the Council of RTV Slovenia at its meeting on 21.10.2003." We will vote on this proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 20th item of the agenda - the consideration of the report on the state of the environment for 2002. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly took note of the report on the state of the environment for 2002." We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda - the consideration of the draft decisions on the public presentation of the complementary proposal of the Triglav Law at the birth park. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed decisions of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 33. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. Under this item of the agenda, the assembly will consider a proposal for a candidate list for a member of the Judicial Council of the Republic of Slovenia, elected by the National Assembly, submitted to the assembly by the President of the Republic, four proposals by the Judicial Council for election to judicial functions and for the appointment of a judge to the Court of Justice [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Mr. Kangler, I can't even hear myself anymore. [[...]] I ask nicely for peace in the Chamber Appointment of a Judge to the Supreme Judge's Court in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] The assembly will also consider a proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Audit Commission on a proposal from the Electoral Commission. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. First, a proposal for a candidate list by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for one member of the Judicial Council, elected by the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 20 of the Law on Courts and Article 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly for today, which is 18 December 2003, has called for a replacement election for one member of the Judicial Council. In this regard, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, submitted, pursuant to Article 131 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 12, paragraph 4, and Article 21, paragraph 1, of the Law on Courts of State to the National Assembly, a candidate list for a member of the Council of Justice elected by the National Assembly, namely by Marjana Feguš and Kati Mininčič. Does the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic wish to further explain the proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal considered the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body of the mother. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor. He doesn't want a word. We have not received the application of Members and Members to the debate, so I am concluding the debate. We're moving on to the election. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 21 of the Law on Courts, the election of a member of the Judicial Council elected by the National Assembly shall be kept secret. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the chairmen and four Members. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for members of the Commission, namely Mr Rudolf Moge, Mr Branko Kelemina, Mr Aurelio Juri and Mr Peter Levič. Does anyone object to this proposal? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. The voting instructions are an important component of the secret ballot. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall so that at least those who want to hear the instructions can hear it. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the President's table and by giving its name and surname. Only one candidate shall be voted for by surrounding a serial number in front of the name of the candidate for which the vote is taken. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate for which the majority of the Members who have delivered the votes in force will be elected. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 18, pardon at 7.45 p.m. and will last until 20 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members to assist me in the vote to meet in room 271. So we will continue the meeting at 20.15 minutes. Thank you very much. Please, everyone you've been appointed to the commission to come to room 217.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u259	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're continuing our session. Allow me to inform you of the results, the minutes on the outcome of the vote in the alternate elections for one member of the Council of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 18 December 2003. 68 ballots were distributed, 68 ballots were delivered. Four votes, 64 votes in force, were invalid. The number of votes received by candidate number 1 Marjan Feguš was 47, the number of votes received by candidate number 2 Kati Minčič was 17. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Marjan Feguš was elected as a member of the Judicial Council of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of five years, by a majority of the votes cast by all the Members who gave the votes in force. I sincerely congratulate the elected member of the Judicial Council, and I wish him every success in his duties! I thank the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic! We are moving on to proposals for electoral decisions. The Council of Justice submitted three proposals to the National Assembly on the election to the judicial office of the District Courts in the District Court in Kranj, Krske and Slovenj Gradec and a motion for appointment to the Supreme Court of Justice in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the representative of the Judicial Council want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposals were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder. Does the president want a word? [[Not at all.]] Representatives of the parliamentary groups and Members have not signed up for the debate and I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. We first decide on the proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Polonce Herman to the District Court in the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 45 votes against 4. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Cvetka Ogorevc to the District Court in the District Court in Krske. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 50 votes against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Cvetka Posilovič to the district court in the district court in Slovenj Gradc. We're voting. There are 58 of us present. 46 votes against 3. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Janez Vlaj to the Supreme Court of Justice in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 56 of us present. It's 46 votes against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I thank the representatives of the Judicial Council for their cooperation. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Audit Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted by a mandate-holder committee for consideration by the assembly. Does the rapporteur want a word? No, no, no. Representatives of the parliamentary groups and Members have not signed up for the debate and I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Audit Commission of 31 January 2004. We're voting. There are 57 of us present. 52 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you all so much and good night!
