ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u1	It's ten o'clock. All together I smell good morning and good day, and I invite you to take your seats. Those of you who are still in the lobby of the hall are invited among us. In particular, the Prime Minister, who today will answer three questions from our fellow Members of the opposition's parliamentary groups. We will therefore continue our 29th regular session. I'll ask for your attention in the hall. I will first inform you which colleagues and colleagues will not participate in the work of the National Assembly today because of other obligations. Collegiates Barovic, Cimperman and colleague of Montenegro, colleague Diaci, mag. Gračner, Jakič, Yuri, Kebrich, Peterle, Pukšič and Weber. From 2 p.m. on, colleague Feri Horvat, from 3 p.m., colleague Lavrinc and 16 p.m. colleague Podobnik. Is the Prime Minister in the National Assembly? The time is in 10 minutes. Please! Can you please, Mr. President, come to the bench? Three questions await you. First of all, you will have the first question, please, for peace in the hall! Can you please take your seats? Comrade Jelinčič, you will get the first question, so please take your seats. Can everyone else please take your seats?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I ask the distinguished Prime Minister about one matter which is pointed out in the Slovenian economic area. Looks like the Interbrew thing wasn't lonely. It looks like the KBC who bought the New Ljubljana Bank won't be lonely. Novartis, who took over Lek, is going to get twins. Recently, it has been said that Croatia will buy out the Ljubljana dairy, but not the whole share, but the share owned by the Capital Society, the Slovenian Compensation Society and the Slovenian Development Society. This is what the state controls. This is a total of about 13 shares in the ownership of the Ljubljana dairy sector, which is not negligible and in this way Croatia would take control of a very important segment of the food industry in Slovenia. The lura is highly developed, affecting foreign markets. Now she has set herself the goal of coming to Slovenia, because this is not just about economic goals. This is also a matter of political objectives. I would ask the First Minister of the Republic of Slovenia: What do you know about this? Croatia's preliminary talks with Sodom and Kad were due this summer. I want to know: What does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intend to do in this area, because abandoning the food industry of Croatia is actually a strategic issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u3	Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to answer this question raised. This is an issue that affects the area of takeover in Slovenia. As I know, the Slovenian National Party also has several proposals concerning this law. In the short term, we can expect to consider amendments and additions to the takeover law in the National Assembly, and I suppose in October. The government proposed this in July. This is a law that we have discussed and regulated many times before. This law is adapted to European Union standards. It respects the Directives and these recent amendments try to introduce some innovations into this law and even increase opportunities or strengthen opportunities for taking over businesses. The key objective in taking over is to protect small shareholders and to ensure transparency in the acquisition processes. On the other hand, we protect those most important interests of Slovenian citizens and citizens at the same time. These are in the area of competitiveness. This means preventing monopolies. It's one of the most important things. In this context, we have also prepared this law. This new law also includes closed companies, which are large and have multiple shareholders, one billion of the total capital and 500 shareholders, under the terms of the acquisition under this Act. In addition, it additionally introduces some security guards that are supposed to prevent acquisitions in a way that some have undertaken, particularly through connected persons, through third parties and so on. So we're essentially introducing some more sophisticated mechanisms. We further sanction takeovers. If the acquisition is carried out in such cases, we also require payment of the price difference for the sale to a third party within a certain period of time. We also address the problem when taking over shares at the company's own expense. In short, we've included a lot of these mechanisms. In the meantime, there has also been quite an in-depth discussion of some of the topics that you have been alerting and of the additional safeguards that the State might have at the time of taking over. We have studied the practice - I think it is Italian, also Spanish. We have not yet decided to put these solutions in because it is an exceptional solution in the Italian case. We have also asked ourselves about this case and some disputes are ongoing in Brussels. However, I do not rule out the possibility that this will not be discussed again in the National Assembly, probably on your proposal when this law is being considered and adopted. So that we have quite a few mechanisms to prevent monopolies, we also ensure competitiveness and transparency in such cases. In this particular case, I am not aware of individual procedures. They're also informing me, and I can see that there were no direct conversations between Kado and Luro. I just got this information. So these procedures don't run for the time being. But we have legislation. Our legislation is European. I cannot rule out attempts to acquire and purchase capital markets. If that happens, all the competent institutions will have the tasks they have. In the case of Uniona and Lashko brewery, for example, such a procedure and procedure have been carried out. We have also said this both at home and in Brussels that in Slovenia the institutions that decide are responsible. In the end, the competent institutions decided. I hope you're satisfied with the decision of the Union and Laska brewery.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u5	Request for follow-up. Please, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. I would continue in this direction and ask you in terms of what you were told about the takeover law. The Slovenian National Party has tabled its proposal for a law. I want to know: Will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia take into account those proposals in which the takeover arrangements are made by foreigners? It is a simple European solution that Europe knows. They're mostly known by the Germans and the French. I wonder: Will you take them into account, because in the Slovenian National Party we are convinced that our solutions in certain segments are significantly better than those in the government proposal? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u7	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u8	Thanks for the extra question. Well, I'm sure you're sure your solutions are good. We have prepared our proposal. This one's on the table. That's what we're going to talk about. As I said, we have also discussed these mechanisms. So far, we have not included them in this proposal. Of course, we felt that these solutions, which we are proposing, were better. We're sure of that. We believe that they are good and bring important innovations, greater transparency in the business of the capital market, preventing and creating monopolies and so on. So that your discussion will be open and the competent ministry will face your arguments. I'm also aware of these examinations you've done. I think it's for Italy as well as Spain. The data shall also be kept by the competent ministry. This discussion is about to go on.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The next question, Prime Minister, will be asked by colleague Janez Janša. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u10	Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister! Colleagues and colleagues! In recent weeks we have been surprised by the news that the Alpine factory, one of the parade horses of the Slovenian traditional industry, will forgive workers. More than 100 workers will be left out of work as announced by the boards. They'll close the plants in Gorenje village and in Cole nad Ajdovščina. Most layoffs are 30 and 50 years old, and there is no new work for them in these settings. For Gorenja village and Col and the wider environment of both places, such a decision is a social disaster. Slovenian transitional privatisation - this branch in itself - would not be much news. Similar fate has already been experienced by tens of thousands of workers all over Slovenia, without this power being greatly moved. They mostly received charity from the social transfers of the leaders, who put the factory in bankruptcy, and to new, mostly better positions. However, the case of Alpina is somewhat different. Alpina has been achieving good business results for several years. Last year she ended up with 300 million tolars of profit. They also sold the most running shoes in the world, which is a beautiful success. They increased the net profit to the stock. All these results have been achieved with the existing number of employees and relatively modest salaries of workers. The management is expected to relocate production to Romania and China due to cheaper labour, more liberal labour protection rules, child labour and so on, due to lower production costs, in short. We understand the economic reasons for this move. The market is global and has its unforgivable legitimacy. We do not understand, however, that there is no social sense in these decisions. In our opinion, the owners of the factory, which has achieved good business results for 30 years also due to the low salaries of workers in Cola, Gorenje village and Žireh, are obliged to invest at least part of their profits in new employment programmes or such dismissals so that they can at least partially help themselves in their employment. One of the owners of the Alps is also the government through the Capital Society and the Compensation Society. According to the latest published data, the Court has 10 and Kad has 12% equity. We couldn't figure out today's ownership situation because they didn't know it or they didn't know it, either in Kado or in the Court or in the Alps. They said they still had to check the status of the owner. I ask the Prime Minister: What will you do as one of the indirect owners to mitigate the consequences of this neoliberalism policy in the Alps?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u11	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u12	Good. Thank you so much for asking. I think it is a good question to point out, in fact, some of the problems we are facing and that it is an integral part of the integration of the Slovenian economy into European and global flows. I hope that the answer will show that your assessment of our actions is completely wrong and that it is made on wrong assumptions. The government has engaged in this case. The government considers that in this case it would be unacceptable not to react and that it would be unacceptable not to try to do everything to keep these jobs both in Gorenje village and in Kol. That is why we have agreed, I have also entrusted both ministries, both the Ministry of the Economy and in particular the Ministry of Labour, together with the Employment Office, to do everything possible to keep as much of these jobs as possible. To do so, however, the Alpine will continue to be one of Slovenia's most successful companies in the leather and manufacturing industry and the footwear industry. Unlike Pek and Planike, Alpina is a successful international competitor. It faces international competition that puts pressure on labour costs. That is why we have decided to hold several interviews with the Alpine leadership, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Economy. There's another conversation going on today. With our joint strength, through the active employment policy programmes prepared by the Ministry of Labour, we have resolved the situation temporarily. So it was decided - so I was informed - that employees in Gorenje village and in Cola from 1.11. will not be fired from their jobs as originally envisaged. It was agreed to review all possible employment programmes available under the programmes implemented by the Ministry of Labour and the Employment Office. Such a job conservation programme, within which certain efforts and programmes will be carried out, as well as co-financing of these jobs. In the first phase, the temporary possibility of including workers and workers from establishments in Kol and Gorenja village in a specialised textile work fund. In the second phase, the acquisition of new production programmes in both locations, which would allow the re-employment of redundant workers in the new employer, also on the basis of permanent employment subsidies. We have tried to activate local development initiatives, which, together with the Employment Service, together with the representatives of the State, will do their utmost to ensure both objectives in order to keep as many jobs as possible while maintaining the Alpine as a successful international competitive enterprise. Nor does it argue that in other cases we have done nothing and that we leave the company in negligence. Thus, in this case, when the company is successful, we have reacted and we will react and we will try to resolve the situation. We have also recently intervened in the Mure case and ensured that jobs with a national programme, through state resources, are preserved, based on serious analyses and prepared restructuring programmes. We can therefore count on 4,800 jobs kept in Mura in 2004 thanks to the government's programmes and efforts. Of course, with its own effort, the effort of both workers, the social partners in the company itself, and the administration. I can say that the government and the competent ministries are doing everything and will do it again - and I repeat - in two stages. In the first phase: employment programmes, active employment policy programmes; in the second phase: Ministry of the Economy. It is necessary to find a new re-employment programme and to find quality jobs that provide high added value. Which, of course, is not easy. It's a difficult task, it's complicated, and it's got a lot of livers. We will do everything in our power to maintain the maximum number of jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u13	Request for complete response. Please, Comrade Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u14	Thank you for that part of the answer. It was classic. We have also heard such promises in new cases, which should be one of these. Most of the time, a minimum pension was paid. Then there were people in the employment office for about a year or two. But most of the time, it didn't come true. Personally, I wonder: Will you engage yourself in this particular case? Finally, the President of the Supervisory Board is an important member of the Liberal Democracy. I would also like to ask: Will you visit the Alpina administration and the workers on your own? I'll explain why I'm asking. On 19 September, a discussion was published in the Finance Journal with the Chairman of the NLB administration, Mark Voljc. Among other things, he said: "In 1998, ministers Tone Rope and Igor Bavčar visited us in the bank and suggested that we accept the proposed 30% reduction in wages for which the Vice-President of the Government of Podobnik took the floor. When we asked them how to compensate, they gave us "Fellas, find yourselves." We've raised the boards in the supervisory boards of the daughter's banks." That's what Wolf says. By the way, this decision on the reduction of wages was a decision of the Government, not a decision of the Likenik. You, as the minister involved in the adoption of this decision, have suggested or advised someone how to play a decision that you yourself have taken. I ask you: Will you also take time in the case of the Alps - in the New Ljubljana Bank it was only three members of the administration who were very well supplied in social and all other aspects - and visit this factory, where there are hundreds of jobs at risk, and also tell them how to find them?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u15	Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u16	I know that interview. The truth is that in 1998 we reduced wages for all directors in the public sector. At this meeting, there was nothing more said than that they would also have to lower salaries in the New Ljubljana Bank. We told them the rest of us weren't interested in lowering their salaries or leaving the administration. They've lowered their wages. The salaries were reduced by all directors in public companies. This was never a government directive, nor was it ever given to them. If someone understood the demand to pay unconditionally, so that he could find himself in other areas, that is his problem. But in this case, we have succeeded. We've settled public sector salaries. We've arranged exactly what you often tell us is that these directors' salaries are too high. On the basis of these conclusions, we have done so. This was not just the domain and task of the then Vice-President of the Government of Marjan Podobnik. This was done by a special working group. We have prepared the criteria that are still in force today. As far as Alpina's concerned, I said. We will do everything we can to preserve jobs, to protect jobs and to find new quality jobs. That's what we're doing, and that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u17	Dr. Bajuk's colleague will ask the last, third question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Last June, the previous Prime Minister, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, stated on my specific question about the fate of the craftsmen's fund last year, and here I quote that "the government, with the issue of sovereign debt to the craftsmen's fund, has been working intensively and has already adopted a complex scheme to address this issue. The liability of the craftsmen's fund has been assumed by the Capital Fund. The State has provided adequate assets as a counterweight to the capital fund to assume this obligation." [[End of quote.]] So, according to the government's assessment at the time, this issue was adequately addressed. However, it has been another year without the government paying at least one tolar of its obligations. Thus, the government debt of up to 20,000 Slovenian craftsmen, who expect to benefit from this fund, has already exceeded 4 billion tolars. Instead of the State budget, the craftsmen's fund had to cover this huge budget shortfall from its insurers' contributions over the entire period from 1 January 2000 and could not increase pensions on the basis of inflation. Therefore, the insurers are exempted from the fund as they find that the insurance is not paid under such conditions. The government behaves cynically to the fund and to the participating craftsmen, because, on the one hand, it does not pay its obligations and thereby puts the fund into insolvency. On the other hand, it is evident that it has too little mathematical reservations and prevents it from doing business normally. Last year you planned for the Capital Society to take over the craftsmen's fund. As it turns out, this plan has already failed. Mr Prime Minister, you have drawn up the provisions of the pension law, by which the state, by taking on the liabilities to the pension of the craftsmen from the time before their inclusion in the general pension system in the SPIZ, would fully rehabilitate the craftsmen's fund and allow it to operate normally. Therefore, I do not understand why you later yourself have summarized the impossible interpretation of the legal provisions in which the State's obligation to the fund was much lower than envisaged. The funds provided for in this Title would not allow for the rehabilitation of the craftsmen's fund. With such a cumbersome explanation of the legal provisions, you have caused the craftsmen's fund to die on meals. You are responsible and will be responsible for the fate of these 20,000 pensioners in this line. I ask you: Mr Prime Minister, why didn't you keep your promises from one year ago? Why did you not enter into any budget or budget rebalancing after 2000, including the last balance, the State's obligations to the craftsmen's fund, even though this has been a state's legal obligation all along? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u19	Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u20	Thank you so much for asking. You state some of the signs that of course they don't. We do not behave cynically, nor do we really fail to fulfill our promises. Reverse. If you look at the statements made by the government made by government representatives, then you could see from those statements that we are advocating a comprehensive, long-term solution to the craft fund and the issues of the craft fund. In this context, the Government has already adopted a special decision on 23.5.2003, which sets out in great detail how we believe that we can solve the problems of pensioners and pensioners in the long term. In accordance with this Decision, the whole control of the business, the so-called "due diligence", was also carried out by the capital company. This found that it was true - and this was not exactly any cynicism - that mathematical reservations were too low for them to be able to pay all pensions, so that this fund could function normally. This showed "due diligence", an accurate review of the operation of the craft fund. This found that, if this fund was to be rehabilitated in the long term, it should have 39.1 billion needed resources. Of this, it would be necessary to make mathematical reservations by KAD 19.8 billion and for the initial situation in personal accounts 3.7 billion. So, when I was supposed to provide 23.6 billion. It was found that, if we went to solve the problem by discussing each year how much to finance the current needs of this fund from the budget, we would run into a problem of interpreting the law. I don't interpret this law myself. There are two interpretations. After one interpretation, the difference to the minimum pension must be paid and, of course, more. And that's the interpretation of the craft fund. This sum would therefore vary depending on what we take for granted, but no matter how much we pay each year, a billion, a billion and a half, we would not solve the issue of the craft fund in the long run, because mathematical reservations are simply too low. Therefore, the government has decided to entrust the capital company with the preparation of a concept and programme for the long-term provision of these funds, in fact the concept by which the capital company would provide these reservations, these assets - which I have talked about and also oversee the operation of the craft fund. So, we've prepared a concept. We, the government, the Ministry of Finance, were then at the Ministry of Finance - the Ministry of Labour and Capital Society. After this concept, we would completely solve the problem of dead craftsmen once and for all. This concept has been offered and has not been adopted by the trust fund. Then they reopened the experiment - this time without me, these ministries that I was talking about - by which they tried to land from the mutual fund and in agreements to the insurance company, by which the craft fund would be created or functioned as an insurance company. Nor did the administrative authorities or the administration and those who decide on the turnover fund agree, I myself interviewed the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce on this subject and urged them to agree, however, to resolve the problems of pensioners, not the problems of those who run this trade fund, because it is clearly a problem, not the problems of pensioners and craftsmen. We are now trying to restore this dialogue. The moment they land, we will engage capital company funds and definitively solve the problems of current and future pensioners. That seems to make sense to us. In this way we would get a quality craft fund that would function qualitatively with sufficient mathematical provisions that could get new committees, new customers that would expand and operate successfully. So, this offer is on the table. It is open and can be realized at any time. I'd say, "The ball's on the other side." I think it's the right way to talk without politicising here in the National Assembly and trying to insinuate some temporary solutions that amount to a billion, two, three from the budget, and a temporary improvement, but always a problem in line. We need to make a permanent solution. I call again - also from this city, the fund of craftsmen - to sit down, if necessary, with me, and find this long-term solution and ensure what we want, pensions for craftsmen, not the service for officials.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u21	Dr. Bayuk's colleague wishes to complete his request.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The question was also why the government failed to fulfill its obligations to those who were born in marriage. The law does not oblige the government to debate these matters, to hold meetings, but to pay you its obligations. That is why I would like to ask you a very simple question, Mr President, given your response and what the government's actions show regarding respect for the law are: Can you explain to us here today in the National Assembly who are the Prime Minister and are responsible for the full functioning of the government, as well as the President of the largest party in the ruling coalition, what is the difference between the initiative or the idea and the law in force? What does the law represent to you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u23	Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u24	Look, law enforcement was never a problem. In fact, we, the Capital Society, together with the competent ministries, have drawn up a proposal for a law whereby we could resolve what we are talking about for a long time, but it is impossible to do so without the consent of the craft fund. However, with regard to the fulfilment of the SPIZ law, it is obvious that those responsible must find out what is the actual obligation - and I interpret the law, in which case it is different. Some believe that this obligation is substantially smaller These in the crafts force consider it to be significantly larger. In this case, it is possible to ensure, by appropriate means, that the final sum is determined in the end. However, what I would like to stress in this regard is that regardless of this amount, we will not solve the problems of pensioners' tradesmen. We're not going to get away with this. This will only solve temporary problems with the financing of the craft fund. Temporary pension payments. The trust fund will continue to have a problem with the Insurance Supervisory Office, with the relevant agencies from which it needs permission and so on. Only a long-term solution can solve this. A long-term solution will be adopted at the end of the law. That's clear. It's not just a discussion, it's not a debate. An appropriate decision was adopted by the government, with which the government went into the project and committed the ministries. The project was prepared and the project is on the table. It is set up and can be realized if it is the right will to solve the problems of craftsmen, as I said. If there is no will in the background, especially this one and in the politicizing of the problems of craftsmen. We don't want to politicize these problems. We miss solutions and we have a solution on the table. She's here. She's offered. We can work it out together if he wants to solve problems. But if we want to – of course – politicize ourselves, then we can have a very large number of replicas and give each other this topic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u25	Would you like to have a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I'm not happy with that answer. I completely reject what you have just said again that this is a politicized issue. Every question in this National Assembly is politicisation. It is also our responsibility to control what government is doing and how it works. The Slovenian government must respect the laws and respect them consistently. There is no other option than to complete or amend the law and propose a better change to the National Assembly. For four years the Slovenian government has not enforced this law. For at least four years, the state budget should demonstrate the responsibility of the government, and this is like the debt of the Slovenian State to this fund. There's no such thing. Just because we asked that question, it finally came on a day. Mr President, on the basis of Rule 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure, I request a debate on the response of the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u27	All right, mate, Dr. Bayuk. Today at 18:00 and 5 minutes, the National Assembly will decide, without discussion, on your proposal to include in the next meeting the point of reply of the Prime Minister to your question raised. I hereby interrupt or conclude item 2 of the agenda for questions from Members of Parliament and Members. I announce the 11th item of the agenda, which will begin at 11 o'clock. We will first discuss the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on higher education. By 11:00, when the National Assembly continues its work, I'm adjourning the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u28	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving to 11. On the agenda and on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on higher education. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a representative of the government, whom I welcome here: Dr Slavko Gabra, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Lučko Lorber, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and Mrs Mihaelo Kolenko Novak, State Undersecretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. I give the floor to Minister Slavko Gabr, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u29	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! The Government has submitted a law on amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act in order to supplement the solutions that the Labour Relations Act has brought to working relations in the field of higher education. More specifically, we propose a change in the regime allowing in the Labour Relations Act a complementary working relationship only to other legal persons also as an opportunity for an additional working relationship within the same legal person for universities in that country. The reason for that is simple. We have been working for several years to integrate the two major universities in this country, Maribor and Ljubljana. These two campuses are now highly diversified internally. If it were not possible to carry out these additional obligations within the same legal person, this would force the internal fragmentation of both universities, which is not our goal. We will also need strong universities in the European game. We therefore propose that Parliament confirm this amendment, which is also at the heart of all other amendments to this law. At the same time, we are introducing some additional amendments to this law. First of all, in Article 3, we are opening up a space to increase the so-called practical part of the study, especially because one of the European Union directives in the field of grandmary requires more practical training than our law has allowed. We are also trying to resolve this issue in this way. Otherwise, in Articles 6 and 7, we also regulate the area of transport in an adequate way in the field of secondary education. In Article 5, however, the Government supports the amendment, which, like the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, also makes it possible to conclude contracts of work. The Government has completed this amendment itself in accordance with the opinion of Parliament's legal service. We therefore propose that you also accept this supplement. Otherwise, I predict that in Parliament, according to the conclusions of Berlin concerning the Bologna process, we will arrive within a few months with additional changes to allow for a different duration of the study. It's different than this moment. That's it for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u30	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as a parent working body. I ask President Rudolf Mojet to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u31	President, thank you so much for your word. Have a nice hello to all of you. The Committee has considered this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on higher education, bringing it into line with the provisions of the Labour Relations Act and the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. The proposer presented to the Committee the main solutions that the proposed novelty brings. This is the provision of Article 1 on Rector's elections, which provides for the same electoral right for all employees, both full-time and short-time employees. This provision is in line with the provisions of the Labour Relations Act, which allow for short-term employment in several employers. The Novela in Article 3 also allows the practice of students who will be defined as a 40-hour weekly obligation in the study programmes and will be carried out during the study and in the graduate year in addition to lectures, seminars and exercises. The proposed solution is in line with the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education, which provides for study programmes. Article 5, which is the main article of this amendment, provides that additional employment contracts may be concluded for the same legal person and not only for another employer, as provided for by the Labour Relations Act. In particular because of the varied, very difficult and extensive work carried out by higher education teachers, academics and higher education staff. Articles 6 and 8 also provide the same solution for cheaper transport of higher education students as the Education and Education Financing and Training Act provides for higher education students, students and students. The Committee has examined it following a reduced procedure. That is why he went to the amendments that were tabled in the individual article. He rejected an amendment that would allow all habilitated high school teachers to elect a rector. The only statute of the University of Ljubljana provides for one exception in elections. This is the Faculty of Medicine, whose professors are employed as doctors at the clinic. However, the representative of the University of Primorska objected to this article because she considered that employment was only a guarantee of belonging to the university. In this way, only higher education teachers have the right to vote, which are characterized by two decorative incomes. That means they're busy and they're being rehabilitated. Nor did the Committee adopt an amendment setting out the examination of pedagogical skills by means of a subsequent lecture, as representatives of all three universities have said that this is already provided for in their statutes. The representative of the University of Ljubljana, however, said that opinions on the professor's pedagogical skills were more objectively expressed by surveys among students. At the same time, the representative of the University of Maribor expressed the need for greater representation of students in the elections of the Rector, which is about 3% in Slovenia, and from one fifth to one third of the electorate in other European universities. The committee of the initiative of representatives of the University of Maribor did not turn into an amendment because it felt that it was necessary to obtain opinions from interested parties before the legal regulation of the matter. So it is necessary to reach an agreement between the student organisation, universities, trade unions and the state. With the adoption of the amendment of the Club of Representatives and the Group of Members to Article 5, which provides for a weekly pedagogical obligation only, the Committee has reshaped its content by agreeing with both the proposer and the trade unions and all three universities. Since the adoption of the law was linked to a shorter procedure, the members of the committee did not find satisfactory solutions to conclude contracts of work. The applicant therefore said that he would try to find this solution in the form of an amendment when considering the law at the meeting of the national assembly. The representatives of the trade union pointed out that it was necessary to enable representative unions to be involved in the development of criteria for reducing the direct educational obligations of higher education teachers, since the proposed legal arrangements had no impact on them. For this reason, the Committee adopted an amendment allowing representative unions to give an opinion on these criteria within 15 days of receipt of these. Of course, university rectors and the dean of higher education institutions must obtain the consent of the Minister responsible for higher education. When considering the arrangements for subsidising the transport of students, the debate on the Committee took place in the same way as in the law on the organisation for financing education and education, or in the light of the options given, grant subsidies to all students or be a fundamental criterion for obtaining a subsidy of social criteria. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] As in the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, the Committee found social criteria in law as a fundamental criterion for obtaining subsidies. [[...]] After a discussion without a vote, the Committee adopted the articles of the proposed law amending and supplementing the law on higher education and proposed to the National Assembly that it adopt a complementary proposal for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u32	Thank you, chairman of the committee. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I give the floor to Vojk Celigo, for the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u33	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, coworkers, dear colleagues and colleagues! Laws dealing with the subject of education always arouse considerable interest. It also depends on their content on how the levers for the education of all desirable citizens and others will be regulated. In the DeSUS Group we have studied the law with interest, because in accordance with our slogan "DeSUS for all generations", any change in laws that directly and indirectly affects education, either primary, secondary, higher education, for younger and younger, is of great interest to them. Members of our parliamentary group support in principle the proposed amendments to the law, although at times it seems that the bill is trying to resolve some of the issues "ad hoc". Don't think too hard. We find the disputed attempt of the law to introduce, for teachers within universities, colleges or departments, an actual longer working time than the general law and the European Directive legitimized. We are aware of the problem faced by universities or individual universities and higher education institutions, namely the lack of qualified professional staff. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that such a solution to the problem is not most appropriate. Further consideration should be given to possible alternative solutions. Thus, consideration should be given to the acquisition of new habilitated teachers, perhaps by rejuvenation of professional staff in colleges or by stimulation, which would be interesting enough to restore professional staff from abroad. These objectives were also highlighted in the adoption of the National Higher Education Programme. Despite the fact that this is not an easy task, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that the objective is not impossible to achieve. Otherwise, we should not be surprised that the quality of our study is declining due to the rapid increase in the number of students, as students are thus no longer in personal contact with the professor and thus not receiving his direct advice that could contribute to quality. Otherwise, the goal set by the national programme, namely to increase the proportion of the population with higher, higher or postgraduate education, can be achieved, but to ignore the objective, also preferable, to improve the effectiveness and effectiveness of the postgraduate and postgraduate studies. In this context, it may be necessary to listen to the proposal of the University of Maribor, which wants to establish greater participation of students. The proposal concerns their participation in the selection of the Rector. In the DeSUS Group, we see no reason for student participation to take place in other areas of college or higher education. It is the students who feel the strengths and weaknesses of the lecturers most directly. According to the assessment, the teacher would be further stimulated or not. If we look at the matter from the other side, from the teachers' pay, we are also not sure in the parliamentary group that the legal provision in Article 5, if adopted, will also be implemented in the Member States, in all three universities and other higher education institutions, provided that the implementation of the provision depends on the condition of the funds provided. This raises the question: Will all higher education teachers be sufficiently stimulated in carrying out the additional work that they are likely to have to do in spite of the intent of the bill? We certainly support the idea of doing more research and development work in the parliamentary group. It also gives you the knowledge that you have acquired. However, we must always strive to improve and acquire new teaching, teaching skills. In the DeSUS Group, we know that changes cannot be made immediately because we need time for evolution. That is why we will support the bill. At the same time, we hope to see an opportunity for the solutions proposed in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u34	Thank you. Marija Ana Tisovic will give her position on the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u35	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Hello, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the law on higher education. This novel is subject to amendments and additions to the three segments of the Higher Education Act. First. In Article 3, we are opening up an opportunity to increase the practical work of the study in areas where practical training is needed under EU directives. This should allow the student to be charged up to 40 hours per week or 42 weeks per year if the study programme contains practical training. In New Slovenia we support these changes because we are convinced that graduates have come to certain jobs with little practice. However, the second set of amendments and additions to these novels are necessary because of the changes made by the Labour Relations Act. Therefore, in the field of human resources, it is necessary, as we adopted in June, amendments to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, for teachers to legislate specific provisions on employment also for higher education teachers, scientific workers and co-workers. Thus, 20% of the work obligation in the same legal person is allowed in Article 5 of this amendment. No additional work is allowed under the Labour Relations Act. Only another employer is allowed, which is supposed to be unacceptable at universities. According to the New Slovenia Group, more flexible solutions should be found in the Labour Relations Act itself, thus finding systemic solutions. We are now solving the problems that arise in the areas. This amendment further amends Articles 6 and 8 where we complement Article 69 for the purpose of subsidising the transport of students. The new Article 73c, the amendment to the Higher Education Act, is in line with the Act on Complements of the Law on Organisation and Financing of Education and Education. However, since the introduction of the amendment will require even more precise determination of the criteria by means of a sub-legislative act. As a result of the "vacatio legis" and the preparation of a sub-legal act today, subsidisation of student transport cannot be obtained. Therefore, we propose to the New Slovenia Group that the provision on subsidisation be reactive so that students can exercise the right to subsidise transport, which is from 1. Ten. 2003. Unfortunately, in the New Slovenia Group, we note that the novel in question no longer solves the problems that arise in higher education. We have received initiatives from both the University of Maribor and the University of Ljubljana, and the proposer to the National Assembly with an excuse to wait until the Berlin Conference did not submit those proposals from universities that are not bound by the guidance of a limited conference. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the government should be more up-to-date with the changes that are justified and could be solved with this novel. The novelty that we accept today is, in the opinion of the New Slovenia Group, necessary to some extent, so we will not oppose its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u36	The position of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by the Master Majda Potrate, who I give her my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable representatives and representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on higher education, which the Government has sent for consideration after a reduced procedure, will be supported by the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. We have taken into account the explanation given by the applicant, which highlighted the need for a specific regulation of the situation of higher education teachers and teachers, co-workers and co-workers in view of the new definition of the type of employment relations after 1 January of this year when the new Labour Relations Act entered into force. There is also a need for a change that will make students and students of higher education equal to students, students and students of higher education in the exercise of the right to subsidised transport to school. The one that regulates the duration of the study and the relationship between the theoretical part of the study and practical education for individual regulated professions. In doing so, we are aware that interventions to the Higher Education Act could be more extensive, as there are other open issues that require changes. However, we have taken into account the clarification that the applicant has reached agreement with the representatives of the University of Ljubljana and Maribor that a more fundamental intervention in higher education law will be possible after a thorough discussion carried out after the Berlin Ministerial Conference. As major changes related to the implementation of the Bologna Declaration are forecasting in our higher education, we support dialogue among all stakeholders. We therefore agree with the proposed amendments limited only to the necessary alignment with the new labour legislation. This will establish certain specificities of the work of higher education teachers and teachers and other staff in higher education. The new amendment to Article 5, which, instead of a fifth additional job, allows a third, follows the proposal of universities and gives the Rector the opportunity to organise teaching and research work at the university smoothly. The special knowledge required for individual holders of time-limited pedagogical obligations does not always allow for the conclusion of a regular working relationship. Therefore, the conclusion of a contract of work with top experts has ensured the quality of the educational process in a given study direction and has, in many cases, a comparative advantage over other similar directions and programmes. The notice of the Legal and Legislative Service to the amended draft law and the proposed amendment to Article 5 reopened some of the issues related to the exemption from the provisions of the Labour Relations Act. Among other things, it is necessary to respect the compulsory public call for employment in higher education institutions, as provided for in their statutes. Since the Government has proposed an amendment to the amendment following a notice from the Legal and Legislative Service, and provides for the employer's agreement to conclude a contract of work, we will also support the amendment to Article 5 in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. The proposed supplement to Article 69 of the Higher Education Act introduces the possibility of subsidised transport by public means of transport for higher education students as well. Since it is an equalisation with other participants in secondary and higher education, which is at least 5 kilometres from the place of education, it is also appropriate to apply the same criteria for the exercise of this right as laid down in the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education and to implement it. [[A warning sign for the end of the debate]] We therefore do not agree with the universal right to a subsidy which excludes social status, as proposed in the amendment to Article 8. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u38	Thank you. Following is the position of the SLS Group of Members. I give the floor to John Sponik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u39	Thank you for saying so, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-workers. Any amendment to the Higher Education Act is important. It rules what it proposes, changes in the short run. It is understandable that, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, these changes are minor and must not affect the concept of the law itself. And here I am joining my colleagues who are already looking forward and expecting the government to make major changes to the law in the near future, which will incorporate the proposals of the Berlin conclusions that touch on the content of the Bologna process. In any case, these changes will be positive and will mean almost a tectonic shift in the perception of studies so far, especially its contents. As has already been said or recorded in the material, only education in the Maastricht and Amsterdam agreements has been written in such a way that it is not a direct part of harmonisation. However, it is evident from the material, and there has been a significant shift in this content of the law, which we will write and pour into this content of the law one of the European directives that speaks about the use of working time and we will somehow exceed the applicable Slovenian law that regulates labour law. It is important to say in Parliament that the European acquis somehow builds on the Slovenian acquis. This is an important novelty that will become a constant in the work of the National Assembly in the coming years. It is also important to emphasise something else in this law in all other laws relating to higher education. When adopting them, the way in which they are accepted, it shows whether there is a culture of governance or a culture of cooperation between social partners. The model adopted by the government is a model established by the States of consensus in Europe. And this is a good model to put into practice the adoption of these laws that touch on such an important area as higher education, that everyone who co-forms it, the university, institutions, unions, the second profession, politics and civil society participate in this process in the broadest sense of the word. I'm sure this model will stay on. Similar solutions have been mentioned here many times today. I wouldn't repeat them. The goals and principles are acceptable to us. We will support them in the parliamentary group. There's three of them. One is the social - cheaper transport of students, the other organizational-statutory aspect, when they elect a rector, the issue of additional employment and one minimum content part, which tells how practice can also be considered during the study. As we say, we support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u40	Mr Tanko will give his position to the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u41	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! In recent times, we have often faced new laws that we are reducing for the Slovenian economy and the budget of the superstandard and therefore expensive solutions that we cannot do in the long run, or with novels we are trying to apply specific special solutions to individual areas. This novelty, which has also been submitted by the Government in at least one part, corresponds to this characteristic. For in a relatively short period of time - in the middle of which only permits were allowed - the government proposed the second time changes concerning employment in education. The first was the amendment to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which, referring to the specific situation of education, introduced in Article 109 a provision on the introduction of a contract of work. Despite the legislative and legal service's comment that this is a non-systemic solution, this exception has been adopted. At that time, at the time of consideration of this amendment, our Group has pointed out that new pressures and new exceptions to employment relations can be expected, which will soon fully evaluate the umbrella or system-wide labour law. The novelty we are currently facing brings and introduces in Article 5 the possibility of additional employment for up to 20% of working time with the same employer. However, it is not clear whether the real and exceptional individual problems are being addressed in specific areas of higher education, or whether this represents a general possibility for an extra-systemic way of increasing wages in this sector. The amendment of the four parliamentary groups, as well as the amendment to the amendment tabled, do not resolve the concerns that the legislative and legal services have made with a slightly different intention. The government also proposes to amend the article concerning school transport and, in fact, repeats the poor, contested solution from the ZOFI, which has only worsened with the monthly ticket subsidy rule. Under the cover of greater social justice and the equalisation of conditions, it introduces a rather undemocratic solution to the forced residence of students and students in the student home, for those of the farthest beneficiaries. If they don't take advantage of these options, they're going to be reduced by half. On the other hand, it introduces large exceptions as it does not take into account the legal criteria for all beneficiaries, but exceptions are introduced in Article 6 of the Regulation, which only have a partial basis in the content of the amendment of the law. Therefore, some beneficiaries also received significantly higher subsidies without meeting social or other criteria. It is clear that the regulation, which will be issued after this novelty by the Minister, will be exactly the same as the already published regulation, which was issued on the basis of the novel of the ZOFI, and will therefore contain all the bad solutions. There will also be repeated abuse of the legal provisions on the transport of students, as has already been the case with the original or first rule, which for more than 50% of students is no new or no change, and for at least a third of these, even a significant deterioration. We have proposed an amendment to this article, which I believe we have a basis in the current budget, and the amendment allows for the co-financing of transport to be different, even significantly higher. Funds in the budget are sufficient for up to 70% co-financing. We believe that this proposal is also fully justified and I hope that you will support it in the next procedure, which is the case with the vote, but also with the possibility of harmonising the provisions relating to the law on the financing of education and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u42	Thank you. Peter Levič has the position of the Youth Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u43	The purpose of this proposal for amendments and the completion of the Higher Education Act is to confirm the proposaler's approval, notably the harmonisation of the Higher Education Act with the recently amended Labour Relations Act. While the bill contains only 10 articles, some do refer to the previously mentioned harmonisation. It also brings some other novelty to the bill. In the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, we expected that the government, as a proposaler, would try to amend all those provisions that proved inappropriate and would involve all other participants in tertiary education. However, according to the number of comments they have sent to both universities, and not only to the articles that the bill corrects, we can see that this is not the case. Given the significant under-budget resources for universities, we can expect that the new legal bases will allow more hours for higher education workers, and in fact colleges will not be able to afford it. This has also been demonstrated by the heated debate on the Education Committee, which has also pointed to other problems in higher education, which we do not solve with this law and which are being pushed into the future. Today's seventh amendment to the Higher Education Act is certainly not the last. The Minister of Education, on the Committee, reiterated that after the Berlin Conference, new amendments to this law would be prepared to which he would invite all interested parties. We hope that's true. Article 1 already raised the question of the representation of students in these elections, when the proposal for a law allows for the election of a rector to be made available to part-time professors. May Slovenia will become a full member of the European Union, to which we like to compare ourselves, but it seems to us that the government is referring only when it suits it. It is similar in European countries when it comes to the introduction of tuition, while the impact of students on quality is forgotten. Most other European countries know a significantly higher participation of students in the Rector's elections, that we are not even talking about a significantly greater impact on the selection and evaluation of professors in colleges. And also to the news that was essentially brought about by the change. When the university became a legal person and no longer an individual college, as it has been so far, individual professors who have been employed in different universities and who have been involved in research work can no longer do so under the current labour law. That's why the change was necessary. However, the question is, what has also been pointed out by the legal and legislative service, whether this is the right solution. If we confirm this solution in this law, we will also have to follow it in other specific activities and occupations. But the fact is that the number of students per year is increasing, and this is significantly faster than the number of professors and lecturers in individual colleges is increasing. Without this correction, something can soon happen that we will have to face too few teachers for an increasing number of students. What it can mean to limit the number of students, we know from the case of the medical faculty, where we are now facing a small number of doctors. However, we are also aware of the possibility that the fear of a formal increase in the number of hours of professors will be realized, and in fact the implementation of these hours will fall on the shoulders of assistants and assistants. We are therefore also pleased to see an additional amendment to the article, which has also included representative unions in the procedure for the adoption of the criteria for the implementation of these provisions. However, the most unacceptable amendment introduced by the amendment of the law is the subsidisation of student transport. The diction introduced in Article 8 of the Act is exactly the same as that of subsidising the transport of pupils, apprentices and university students. Here, too, the imposition of the criteria for the amount of subsidies will be left to the Minister, who will set them in the Regulation. We predict that the regulation will be the same or similar to the rules issued by the Minister for Students, apprentices, higher education students, which reduces the majority of students to 10%. In subsidising student transport, the government has misled us with the upper limit of 70% of the subsidy, which is enshrined in the law, since the actual beneficiaries under the Minister's regulation are very few, less than 2%. The Parliamentary Youth Group of Slovenia supported the law in order to ensure that the amount of subsidies for the transport of all, not only 46% of the students, will be higher and not lower after the adoption of the law. In fact, these maximum subsidies are only rarely received due to the conditions of the rules. On this basis, we expect the students to be even worse. Students are forced to remain in the study site due to the specification of the study and do not drive home every day. We believe that before the adoption of the rules on subsidising the transport of students in order to create this, you should invite representatives of students to adopt a regulation that will in fact mean more assistance and lower transport costs for all, I repeat, for all students. Since the new study year is at the door and since the Minister is the last time our questions have been raised, our proposals for the resolution of subsidies to all students will not be supported by this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The SNS position will be given by Saša Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u45	Your Honor! We believe in the Slovenian National Party that it is difficult to coordinate all the interests that wish to give their initiatives, their vision and their plans to implement the school system within the framework of the amendment of the Higher Education Act. It is precisely because of this tendency and the frequency of these different interests that are at odds with each other, depending on which side they come from, that we cannot expect the law to bring some kind of long-term solution. We must be aware today of the adoption that, on the basis of the changes in this segment of society within the European Union and on the basis of the required domestic needs, which is clearly the most important, we can soon expect the Minister's instructions in one form or another. And it is right to give certain measures to the minister we also trust. Within the framework of the Slovenian National Party, we have the following concerns and praises for the proposal for a new law. Firstly, we agree that it is necessary to arrange the employment of teachers and lecturers. So far, this has proved to be a big negative, let's say, point in the education system. On the other hand, the regulation of tendering standards, which we consider to have been the most critical element of this field of education in our society, makes sense to define and rightly so that the Minister has proposed it within the framework of the law. Furthermore, for the very positive issue of this law, I will also consider the transformation of the study programmes for regulated professions, which I think will prove to be a positive solution in practice, and the equalisation of the situation, that is to say the story that all speakers before me have been talking about. Whether it is students, students or students, which is in the context of the debate of the National Assembly and I also believe an old story within the Ministry. In part, we can say that it follows and underlines, in part, I can say that it is following a once- tabled amendment on the geographical definition, the distance of being away from college. On the other hand, I would not dare to claim, like some speakers before me, and foresee the content of a future regulation under the authority of the Minister. As I pointed out at the outset, even though I come from the opposition, there must be some confidence in the minister. This trust, I don't think we should label a priori as something negative "if, it's going to be bad in any way". I think or believe, and I want all of us, Members of the National Assembly, to be employed by the State Administration, with the Minister in charge, to have only one wish and the same goal. It is to establish such an education system in such institutions that will bring this country forward, which will allow us to have our staff proudly and qualitatively represented in Europe and to raise our country at home, which will have effects mainly on the higher quality of life and the visibility of our country. Furthermore, we welcome the addition of law or study programmes with practice. In the Slovenian National Party we also welcome, according to our assessment, a very difficult task, as regards the creation of the right degree of autonomy of the university and their responsibility and the public's work. On the other hand, it must be said that we particularly welcome those elements that speak of the Minister's mandatory consent. Unfortunately, this is not reflected in the mandatory agreement of the representative bodies in the framework of cooperation, but, unfortunately, in the opinion. We all probably know that the opinion is different from that of a legal nature, such as consent. On the other hand, we think and believe that it is in this dictatorship that opinions and consensus in the Ministry and in the working body of the State Council have been given such views that will positively reflect. Once again, according to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, it would also be useful for representative trade unions to allow for a consensus rather than an opinion. Allow me to conclude, even in accordance with the time limit of the new Rules of Procedure or now of the old Rules of Procedure, with the words also expressed by the Minister: we want strong universities in the European game. It is right that members of the National Assembly support such aspirations, whether they come from the government, from opposition Members or from the positions of Members. In the Slovenian National Party [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We'll support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u46	Thank you. The position of the LDS Club will be given by Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u47	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! A thorough overhaul of Slovenian higher education brought about the adoption of a law on higher education at the end of 1993, which was upgraded with additions over the following years, thereby upgrading the entire structure of higher education. An important step in the further upgrade of higher education is also the adoption of the National Higher Education Programme in the Republic of Slovenia by 2005. Of course, individual solutions and the situation of higher education are affected by the legislation and regulations of other areas, both by Slovenia and by the European Union. The proposed amendments to the Higher Education Act, which are before us, primarily align the provisions with the new Labour Relations Act. Already in adopting this law, some Members have pointed out the specialities in the field of education and education due to the specific work of higher education teachers, scientific workers and co-workers. Thus, the Labour Relations Act in Article 2 allows a specific law to establish a different regime of working relations. A different provision for education and education, which means a necessity for smooth work, allows for the amendment of the text of Article 63 of the Higher Education Act, which provides that higher education teachers, academics and higher education staff may exceptionally be employed by the same legal person. Such a solution is justified by the fact that it is a matter of regulating the situation within diversified legal persons, which, in the event of a failure to settle that issue, would hypothetically target internal fragmentation. Together with the members of the coalition parties, we have tabled an amendment to Article 5, which adds a paragraph which allows for the conclusion of a contract of work. This can be concluded in accordance with the rules of civil law, but not in cases where works are part of the work process. The faculty will be able to use the top-notch special skills of people who are not and would not even be employed at the higher education institution. Treaty work is an important form of integration between higher education, the economy and scientific institutions, which is highlighted as a positive aspect of the functioning of the university. The complexity of regulating the field of labour relations has been reiterated by the legislator in its complementary opinion. Therefore, in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we will support the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the amendment of the parliamentary groups, which, on the basis of this opinion, makes it even clearer when it is possible to conclude a contract of work that is governed by a model of the amendments already adopted to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. In relation to the newly regulated area of employment relations, the proposed amendment introduces an amendment that discusses the Rector's elections. The Labour Relations Act is a harmonised provision that all higher education teachers, scientific workers who work part-time with more than one employer, will be able to elect the Rector. The news, however, brought the amendment adopted by the committee on a proposal from the trade unions to Article 5, which allows representative unions to be involved in the development of criteria to reduce direct pedagogical obligations. In addition to lectures, seminars and exercises, the law should be defined as a 40-hour weekly obligation to be carried out during the study and during the graduate year. However, it is also being amended by an article which will provide students with the same solution to subsidisation of transport as the National Assembly established for students, students and students of higher education by means of a new law on the organisation and financing of education and education in April this year. In the Group of Members, we do not agree with the amendment tabled by the Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party. Transport subsidies should be regulated by procedures and criteria based on the principle of social justice and at the same time within the framework of financial capacity. The most resources should be given to those who are also socially weaker, so we do not find the amendment acceptable, which does not comply with this criterion. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the amended bill, which was drafted at a meeting of the Committee on Education, Youth, Science and Sport, together with the proposed amendment of the four coalition parties and the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u48	Thank you. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of the review of the amendments of 1.10.2003 which you received today on the bench. I am putting to the debate Article 5 to which the amendment of the four parliamentary groups and the amendment to the amendment submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have been tabled. I'm opening a debate. Mag. A little something, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u49	With this amendment or these two amendments, it is also worth speaking a little wider and I am taking this opportunity. The Labour Relations Act is adopted as it is. It is quite rigid, which causes not only problems in employment in education, but also elsewhere, it probably also has an impact on unemployment in the Republic of Slovenia. These are the findings. The validity of the law even causes these phenomena, various protections or the like, of course, a suitable level needs to be found. It is interesting and unusual that the desire to extend working time occurs with operators, i.e. workers, workers. And this phenomenon appears to be in conflict. When you look at typical working-time adjustment, usually workers, contract workers or employees are the ones who take care of reducing working time while there are tensions in the other direction; in doctors it appears the same, so this is unusual. European legislation sets a ceiling, while the rest remains in our domain as regards education, employment. So with what European norms we can't wave long and fast at every moment, it's just our area. More importantly, what will happen to this school, this sad transfer of knowledge, this utility of knowledge. Will only those changes that the government is now proposing be enough? The obstinacy of these positions, or professors, assistants - the transfer of knowledge is, we can say, also because many people lose hope and desire for good work, because this Slovenian higher education system is so much of a fixer-upper. And then we wonder why 50% of the student rash, why the average study age is 7 to 8 years abnormally high. We're much worse here than the rest of us. You should ask the government what's going on. Why it's with the transfer of knowledge is so clairvoyant. The transfer of knowledge is most reflected in the added value, which is low in the Slovenian economy, and in the number of inventions, innovations and so on. Because there is no connection to the economy, to technology parks, to development centres and so on. Only with these minor changes will we not take any major steps in Slovenian higher education. Here the government, in particular the Minister and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, should ask what else needs to be done. When we talk about the convention on the future of Europe and Slovenia, I am interested not so much in how we will make the province, but how we will strengthen the nation in the Slovenian ethnic area, which is bigger than the state space. It has an essential basis or function of education, the development of the university. In particular at the malls, so that we can cover the ethnic space so that our students will not go to Gradec or Celovec, but Austrian students belonging to the Slovenian nation will study in Maribor, study in Ljubljana, study in Gorica. This is a debate on the Slovenian Convention in the European Union. It's one segment of education, I'm not going to open up the problem of banks now or anything like that - we should do the same thing. This is the Convention on the Future of Slovenia in Europe; the role of the University in this ethnic space. I would like to see these answers from the government, perhaps not at today's meeting, but the next time we meet when we present the changes, the other changes about higher education, the financing of education and education, to seriously address these issues, which also have an impact on those key problems that I mentioned earlier. What we are regulating today also has an impact on the efficiency of the study, on the suitability of the placement of professors, assistants and similar and other professionals in higher education. This is where we fell. And something else about subsidising student food, transportation. Here it is necessary, at least so I understand that the validity of this provision will be out of the force of the law, and we will also now adopt it, not from the validity of the amendments to the regulations to be drawn up by the Minister-General. However, it would be right to start with the start of the school year. That these transports are arranged as is necessary in the country of Slovenia in order for knowledge to gain some validity.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u50	Thank you. Who else wants to discuss Article 5, the amendment to the amendment? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 5, the amendment tabled and the amendment tabled. We are moving on to the debate on Article 8 and the amendment tabled to Article 8 Who wants to debate? Joz Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u51	Thank you for your word. I believe that one more well-founded explanation is needed for the amendment I have proposed in this Article 8. This is an important area, an important part of the cost of education, which also largely regulates whether children will choose a particular school in a particular place or that they will have to choose an alternative or even another school of second rank in an environment that is much closer to them. I would just like to remind you that in the budget that we have adopted, in the current budget and in the amounts that have been rebalanced for this year, approximately 8 and a half billion tolars of resources are available to repress the transport of students, apprentices and students. Of this, almost 2 billion 200 are in the budget of the Ministry of Education. About 5 and a half billion of these funds are in the budget of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. However, we have already amended the law amending the law or amendment of the road transport law this year, where we have allowed liners to receive approximately 900 million tolls of subsidies, depending on how many passengers will be transferred. Therefore, a total of around 8 and a half billion tolls of funds on assumptions, four items in the budget for approximately the same purpose, for the same purpose in substance, as most of the public line transport benefits the schooling youth in one way or another. I would just like to remind you that these three items are also paid or enforced in different ways. The Ministry of Education shall, in accordance with the rules adopted, apply as a subsidy or as a reduced transport. For the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, this is paid as a supplement to the scholarship, and part is paid to carriers in cash as well. As soon as we proposed an amendment to the Education and Education Financing Act, we predicted that transport costs for the planned 60% of the total subsidy would be approximately 6 or 6.5 billion tolars. The funds were already sufficient in the budget on these three items to implement the general subsidy at this level. Given that these funds are now still substantial, it is said that around 8.5 billion, I think there are sufficient conditions for a general subsidy of 70% for all apprentices, students and students. With this amendment, in this part where we can do this, we would do this step, and then probably with the novel we would fix the ZOFI in this part. Then I would just remind myself that I have received a day or two back the answer to my question on this subject. In response to this question, the ministry stated that around 54% of students have no changes or ratings under this law. Even more, 16% of the subsidies go down and 38% of the subsidies remain the same as they were, and 15.5%, it is said that together about 32% does not mean anything at all. The intent of the marriage was different. We wanted to take a concrete step in the direction of correcting opportunities for all students, students and apprentices who travel from the countryside to educational centres that are far away. However, this intervention of four groups or coalitions has completely deformed this sense of law. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the problems related to the identification of the social situation. I think that this country does not have sufficiently sophisticated and developed instruments and criteria for determining social status. I think that at the last meeting of the National Assembly, one of the Members - I think it was Barovic - pointed out what it looked like in practice in the municipalities when people come with vehicles for hundreds of thousands of marks, yachts and so on to the right of insurance under Article 15 of the Law and also to enforce any other ratings. These instruments are not developed by the State. The second problem is the chain of social benefits. In particular, in this case, social benefits are aggregated, on the basis of the same or similar criteria, children's documents are allocated, on the basis of the same or similar criterion, a Republic grant is granted and a subsidy is granted on the basis of the same criterion. I think it is not the interest of the state to have such an impact, I will say, on family policy that people are only deciding and choosing status because of the summation, the chains of these aids. I think that we should define these things differently and make sure, above all, that we are building a society in the other direction, we are saying that we are allowing to a greater extent these general reliefs, which are not affected, which are not built so much by these criteria and that people are also looking for work and other things. In particular, I believe that this proposal, which concerns an overall 70 % relief, is fully justified. This country and this budget also have all the financial capacity already in the budget. It's just a correction, a harmonisation, an inter-resortmental alignment. I think that, given that Minister Gaber has a sufficiently high position in the government, not only the ministerial office, but also the other, it is easy to bring this coordination down and achieve these changes that have been tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u52	Thank you. Someone else wants to discuss Article 8. Minister Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Two issues are, in fact, linked to this topic. One is the possibility of reallocation of resources within the state budget. We are, of course, having discussions about this and trying to find a way to use it more easily and perhaps more effectively, to allocate the funds you are talking about. And we will continue this work. To this extent, it is not easy to say, let's put all these 8 billion and something together and simply use them for transportation, for a general subsidy. I would like to point out that these funds are intended in one part for liner transport. Although it is true that we are most of the line transports, I am talking about the school population these are not the only users of this service and it is not possible to simply count these resources and allocate them all to school. Another problem we have is that most of the funding is for scholarships and there is a supplement to the scholarship, which is already trying to help not only anyone but those who are most in need of assistance. If these funds were to be simply taken now and allocated for a general subsidy equal for all, they would probably increase social disparities. What I'm saying now is that these additional reflections and efforts to find a suitable solution here are not necessary. And in that, I give your thoughts exactly. But we don't agree at the base. I don't believe in general subsidy. I think the principle is wrong. The basic intent of the law you have adopted here is, however, the social justice of this subsidy. Even when I listen to you when you don't speak in principle, I find that you want those who are far and who are socially weaker to have more opportunities to get an education. If this principle is taken seriously, it cannot be a serious general subsidy of 60 % or 70 %. Because it is simply not necessary to give to those who can pay for it themselves and it is better to give more to those who pay harder. This is a range of issues that we deal with. I suggest we stay in the existing formulation of the law. If we find agreements that I'm talking about looking for them, find solutions that are better, we can increase the proportion of those who will receive more within the framework of the law. But let me repeat, it is true that 15% of the population gets less than 17% today, which was a general subsidy. But it is also true that 46% of the population gets more today than they got before this change of law and that about 39% of the population is standing at the same level as 17% of the subsidy they had before. This is the introduction of social criteria and it is also true that the state will allocate between 15% and 20% more resources for this. We are no longer able to do anything else in this budget, especially if we want to do something else: for example, for 600 million tolars to increase the amount of funds for food. It is not about solving one problem that we have, but more, the government will act very likely, I hope, even with your help, as I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I don't see any more desire for a debate. I conclude the debate. We will vote on the amendments in accordance with the meeting's timetable today at 6 p.m. and 5 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. At 12:00 and 45 minutes we continue to work, with the 14th item of the agenda. Until then, I'm taking a break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u55	We are proceeding with a meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving to 14. Period of the day - firstly, a proposal for a bill on the Triglav National Park. The National Assembly began its first consideration of the bill at its 27th meeting. At the proposal of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, the general debate was suspended at that time and decided that the debate and decision on that proposal would continue at one of the following meetings. And that's what we're gonna do today. The sessions are likely to be joined by a mag. Janez Kopač, Minister for Environment and Space and Energy, and Master Radovan Tauzes. We would, however, go on to continue the general debate of Members and Members. At the outset, I will give my word to the proposer. Please, Joze Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like information from the legislative and legal service, whether the procedure of this law is in accordance with the nature conservation law. Furthermore, I would ask you, Mr President, to tell me whether the conditions set out in the decision of the 28th meeting of the National Assembly on the continuation of this agenda item at this meeting are met. It also concluded that the hearing would be carried out at one of the following meetings in the event that these professional and other dilemmas would be resolved. We have no information that anything in this area has done to harmonise anything and so on. We just have some cool information, but we don't have any written information. First and foremost, the legislative and legal service's response to whether this debate, or also this point, takes place in accordance with the rules in force. We are informed that some of the complications were already at the June session.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u57	Thank you. Just a moment before we find out what we need to do about the proposed procedural proposal. Comrade Jože Tanko, on your procedural question: The College of the President of the National Assembly has placed the item on the agenda of this meeting as a continuation of the general debate already under way in the National Assembly, which took place in June. I suppose there is no reason why this part of the debate should not be closed today. At the end of this point or in the context of the vote, we will vote whether the proposal for a law is a suitable basis for further procedure. Here, of course, we have a word and a chance for everyone to decide. When I said that I would give the floor to the applicant in the first place, allow the first-signed Dušan Vukko to explain in particular the things that have happened since our first part of the debate to date, what has happened in this regard, what is already being done in the process of adopting the law as an arrangement for those open issues that have already been raised here in the National Assembly and in the professional public in other different places. I feel that there is no reservation that the debate should not continue today. My friend Micah Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u58	Can I just ask procedurally, Mr. Vice President? Mr Tanko mentioned in his explanation of the proposal that certain legal issues were not clarified, particularly I think this is a question of establishment. The issue of public decomposition is also very controversial, as there must be an appropriate decomposition under the Nature Conservation Act. But the one that was somehow done is not legally valid. This is a very serious legal issue. We have a competent institution in this National Assembly, if I may say so, which helps us with such complications. And if you allow me, Mr President, I would like to refer to Article 66, paragraph 5 if I may quote: "If the President of the National Assembly considers that a specific legal question must be resolved at the meeting itself, he shall invite the representative of the Legal Service to give an oral opinion at the meeting. A representative of the legislative and legal service may request appropriate time to draw up such an opinion. We do not have any legal basis on which legal issues would have been clarified, nor can we rely on the proposalr's oral interpretation because the legal service of this Parliament is not qualified. We therefore expect you to act in accordance with paragraph 5 of Article 66. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u59	The chairman shall interpret the Rules of Procedure at the time of the meeting of the national assembly and shall therefore be responsible. You have the opportunity to contact the Committee for Rules of Procedure and ask if I did the right thing. We are not starting a new debate on the Triglav National Park as part of the general debate, but we are just continuing it, it is my decision to continue it today. There'll be new dilemmas. However, when we decide on this, of course we have the opportunity to decide whether the law is appropriate or not to further discuss it. That's how my answer is procedural. But we'll talk to the president.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u60	Vice President, can you just explain, please, because you have every right to decide. That's perfectly clear. But there wouldn't be a wrong impression. Here the argument that the point has already begun is nothing, because the fifth paragraph speaks of if the President, so you, assess that a certain legal issue needs to be resolved at the meeting, and we say, yes, it needs to be resolved, and we suggest that you do. I am allowed to allow myself a possible proposal to make a five-minute interruption of this point so that the president of the legislature can come forward, give his opinion, and move on, for example. However, the matter would be resolved procedurally, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and no one would have a bad feeling. So, excuse me, it is my impression that if you do so, we simply do not need Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Articles 66 and 5 also give this opportunity to the Chair. I will call on the legislative and legal service to find out about this fundamental issue at the time available to us. We can continue the debate. The point is planned, the conclusion of the College is placed on the agenda, and no procedural questions have been put there. That is why I will open the debate and give the floor to the first-signed candidate, Dusan Vukko, who will give many answers to these dilemmas as well. Once more procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u62	Thank you. Now I am really interested in whether this is also an interpretation of the rules of procedure, so that in the middle of the hearing the interpretation of one of the candidates is given. I do not think that such freedom, nor do the Presidents in this House. I think that the order of the debaters is written, and there's no record of him being the first to propose. I don't think he has any right on this side. The proposer is at the beginning of the point, it has been interrupted, and from there the procedure is normally followed, in order of the debaters. The proposer shall then have the final word in the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u63	Look, colleague Tanko, the motioner has announced 20 minutes of time for his explanation of the proposed law. And according to point 4 of Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure, the applicant or his representative and the representative of the Government may also be given the floor during the discussion. He submitted that he would like to take part in the debate as an introductory speaker. Comrade Wolf, you have the floor, please. [[...]] [[Talking to each other.]] My colleague Tsukati may also be given the floor in the debate of Members at any time, in the fourth paragraph of Article 66. [[...]] I gave him my word so that we would already have in the introduction certain information that you would seek in your debate anyway. I give my word to the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u64	I'd just procedurally. As a proposaler, I applied to the debate regardless of the time available to me. If you're judging, and I don't care if you stick to the order. That's why I'm still going to be able to tell what I had, I've got 20 minutes, and I'm going to apply for the debate at that time. I would ask the President not to complicate this case and to make it in order, but I will use those 20 minutes when it is my turn or in between. However, the Rules of Procedure allow me to make myself known as a proposal in the meantime when I assess that this is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u65	Okay. Thank you. Then you give up what you wanted before, so that the opening act will be yours and we will follow the order of the applicants. You, however, have the opportunity to apply to the floor during the debate of Members. Aloyz Sok, Nova Slovenija has the first word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. I hope that we have passed this initial problem, but at the outset we must find that, in fact, like Mr Tanko's principles of this debate, we do not have any additional materials to propose this law after this two-month interruption. At that time, we interrupted the point and decided to present ourselves at one of the next meetings, perhaps already in September, so fellow Member Potrč suggested that some of the dilemmas be clarified. And here, of course, is the question of which dilemmas were cleared at that time, and we do not have any additional material available to Members, so we have what we had on our seats at that time. Well, anyway, he's really weird this way of working. During this time, I will try once again to present the position of the New Slovenia Group. At that time, when we discussed this in June, we were often told in the debate that the members of the opposition were based on our debate mainly on what was said in the media. However, I must add that at the time, in the media, the records of very prominent institutions such as the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, then the Council for the Protection of the Environment, have appeared. There were also signatures of petitioners who opposed such a bill, and in the final phase we also had the result of a referendum that showed that the inhabitants of three settlements [[Fish laz, New Fužin and Studor]] they do not want to be excluded from the Triglav National Park, despite some of the concerns expressed here in Parliament and the problems presented by the present law for the living population there. I think that at the time one of the co-signatures of this law, fellow Member Christmas, was the most convincing in his debate, who described many of the problems that people and the people of this environment face. Nevertheless, people have made a different decision at the referendum, which, of course, suggests that problems are not the way they want to be presented and that people see them staying within the park as well as a certain benefit. This raises the question whether the referendum will is such, whether it is even reasonable to continue the debate on this law. Would it not be more logical and fair to people to reject this law and to propose or propose a new law to Parliament? Otherwise, the applicants argue that, until the next hearing, according to the second stage, they will take into account the comments, both the comments put forward in the referendum and the comments made by the professional public. As members of the opposition, of course, we do not see any real guarantee in this and wonder whether that will be the case. It can happen - hypothetically - that the applicants will take some comments into account, but that someone else in the ruling coalition with the amendment will, in fact, want to keep what is proposed, and that this will be accepted. What or what makes us think that way in New Slovenia? Look, two years ago, we had already changed this law in this National Assembly, and we then changed it in that chapter about conflict of interest. We have changed it so that, where the government is supposed to decide on a conflict, we have transferred this responsibility to the Ministry of Environment and Space. At the time, I think that we had ahead of us in the National Assembly, if I recall correctly, 14 or 16 proposals from potential investors who wanted to invest something and could not make this happen under the existing law. Secondly, not so far back, an important action that took place in this House was the adoption of an agricultural land law, namely that part that speaks about the transport of agricultural land. I would like to remind you that at that time, thanks to the ruling coalition, you are not going to say that we are, you have created some legal void, and for a certain time we have not had the law, and to this day there has been no answer to the question raised as to how much legal traffic in agricultural land occurred at that time. I personally believe that there has been a movement with agricultural land in Triglav National Park as well, and that this was actually one of the preconditions for this second act, that is to say to change this law. After all, the ruling coalition can act on its own, or primarily on the LDS. This is what we have today in Lipica, for example: Minister Kopač considers that Lipica is not a natural monument, and this leaves the initiative in this area to private economic interests. Instead of protecting Lipico as a cultural monument of the highest rank, we resign from it and also here the Liberal Democracy with its law and with its concept wants to, I would say, decompose the cultural monument in some way. Of course, it is necessary to say that Lipica, if she does not stay the way she is, will only be a white horse in the future and Lipica will not do what is expected of the European Union. After all, because we have the assurance that Members of the ruling coalition will take account of the decision taken at the referendum, except for their words, there is no other guarantee. The guarantee would be a new proposal for a law which would have included this in the initial phase. Given how you "blow up" to some referendum decisions, before a recent referendum on trade closure, it is therefore difficult to believe this in words, and I am also one of those Members, who I do not believe this very well. We are aware that the new law, some amendment to the law, is necessary that the existing law is more than 20 years old in order to adopt a new law that would not make life easier for the population in this part of the world, but it seems to us that this bill proposed by Members with their first-signed colleagues does not provide for this in this direction. When the debate was closed, it was agreed that certain dilemmas should be clarified until the next hearing. I ask today whether some of the dilemmas have been clarified or what article 14 of the proposed law provides for when it comes to the regional design and the adopted regulation act, or when it speaks of a regional design to be adopted in accordance with the rules on the regulation of premises. What function will the park manager have in this regard? It can be understood from this law that, according to the new one, there is no right that it will only be aware of what is going to happen in the park and that it will no longer play this function of management. After you speak of the protection regime, Articles 8, 9, 10 lists what is prohibited, which activities are prohibited, and then in Articles 11 and 12 you refer to exceptions. The concept of the law is that in principle anything that is not prohibited is allowed, but I am approaching myself, or in Novi Slovenija we agree with the opinion of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts, where they say that the law should be based on a different concept, namely, that which would be published, all that is not allowed is prohibited. Let me get this straight. What the applicants are advocating in that law will certainly lead to the release of interventions into this room, there is no doubt about it. The question is, of course, whether the people in this area will benefit from this. The other issues that were raised here at the time, such as the dilemma of the sanitary discharge, which, I say, is not the same as the shooting of the sick animal mentioned by the proposer. This dilemma has not been cleared. Then the dilemma with respect to fishing in the central area; and according to the rules and regulations of the fisheries union of Slovenia this also remains an open question.Recreational activity in the central area. Whether this means a mass recreational activity or it is just a recreational activity for certain voters close to the political circle of the ruling coalition. However, what I find most interesting in this law is the proposaler's claim that this law will have no financial implications for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We know that this claim is more or less on torn legs. Relying on the fact that these areas, which are part of the Triglav National Park, are only a priority in running for the European Union’s various cohesion funds, is, of course, an overly optimistic expectation. You must be aware that those areas that seek to obtain funds for their own development in Slovenia are large. And there's a lot of need. Let me mention just a few. Haloze. I am convinced that the situation there, as far as economic survival is concerned, is even greater. And the Haloz people are also hoping to have a preferred opportunity to run. Then there's Gorička, I don't know, Kozyanska, Dry Krajina, not to mention I won't let anyone go. Such areas are more and the proposalers' expectations that, on the basis of this law, people will have a lot of priority rating options, of course, I think too much expectations. Let me finish. In New Slovenia, we believe that this law should be rejected in Parliament and that the proponents - I believe that they have written the law well-intentioned - should propose a new law in which they should first take into account the referendum decision, because it completely changes the concept of this law and, of course, should take into account the opinions of the professions and all those acts that Slovenia has already adopted in the field of nature protection in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u67	Thank you. I give the floor to my colleague Sam Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The proposal for the Triglav National Park Act is a very difficult material. So far, public responses, including professional responses, are largely unfavorable to him. The authors of the law are individual Members who usually do not have a broad enough professional team behind them. Basic system laws for individual areas are usually drawn up by a competent ministry or government. Thus, Minister Janez Kopač said in June that the government had already had the Triglav National Park Act in its 2001 programme and also in 2002, but was late in drafting the text. We have had a draft law, said Minister Kopachin at the same time that this is not a special obstacle, since the basic law of 1981 has long been in need of updating. Due to the difficult dilemmas that have been put before us by the basic proposal of the law with the first-signed Member Dusan Vukko, colleague Miran Potrč suggested in June that the general treatment of the law should be terminated, so that the drafters will have sufficient opportunity to harmonise the text of the law and take into account as much as possible the comments of the interested professional public and residents living in the Triglav National Park area. Thus, it was possible for a number of amendments to be prepared as a good proposal for a second reading. Already, colleague Janko Weber opened some dilemmas at the June examination of the law, as one party advocated that nature should govern life in the national park itself, while the other said that it was necessary for man to do so. One such activity is, for example, hunting. It is obvious that Mr Weber added that more expert analyses will need to be obtained to support the development and preservation of natural and cultural values. Certainly, the drafters have improved the text of the law, which, in their opinion we received on our bench yesterday, also notes the government and states that the new bill is in some parts better than the previous one. The Government also points out that the law will need to be substantively finalized and incorporated into it, in particular, into the solutions proposed by the competent professional institutions, such as the Institute of Nature Protection and the Public Institute of Triglav National Park. Lawmakers proposed the removal of three settlements from the park area, namely Ribčev Laz, Stara Fužina and Studor. Residents have been to a referendum against exclusion, so their will, expressed in the referendum, must also be respected. Nevertheless, the law must ensure sustainable development for households and allow the use of funds from existing European Union funds for the conservation of nature and agriculture. At the same time, the law must remove the non-life bans now in force on the Triglav National Park. Once again, I would like to point out Studor in relation to these settlements. In 1994, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposed to include three natural and cultural attractions from the territory of the Republic of Slovenia on the World Heritage List at UNESCO. Thus, since 1995, we have registered the birthplace of Kras, the mining town of Idrija and the Bohinj Fužina Mountains on the World Heritage List. As part of this last proposal, the village of Studor with its famous molasses and a farm house, which connects the living and economic premises with the common roof, barn with barn, to a functional unit. I therefore fully support the Government's view that it is necessary to maintain the unchanged entire external border of the park and to correct Article 5 of the law so that the settlements mentioned above are not excluded from the national park in the area of the Bohinj municipality. If I paraphrase former Director-General of UNESCO, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Frederick Major, I can say: We must never forget that protection of the past is important only if it promotes development for the future. I would not want to ruin the efforts of the bill's proponents, so today I will vote in favour of the law. However, if the applicants for second reading do not comply with the opinion of the Government and the proposals of the competent professional institutions, my support will no longer be granted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u69	Thank you. A colleague Ivan Bozič has the floor for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Good afternoon also to the Minister of Environment and Space, who always sits in the Chamber when it comes to matters and laws from those areas covered by them. I've said several times in this room that we often talk about things we don't know. I think I know the Triglav National Park Act very well, but I also know the Triglav National Park, I know the people living in the park, and also how the first law of 1981 was passed and how no law was passed, which should have been passed on the Triglav National Park when the monument was discovered by the four first hikers to Triglav, because we were not satisfied with it in the Soča Valley. In this hall there is only talk of Bohinj, as if only the people of Triglav Park lived in Bohinj. They also live in the Sokka Valley. At the time of drafting the Triglav National Park Act, I am most pleased with the chapters of development guidelines in articles 15, 16, 17 and 18, which say how we will enable people living in the park and those who will manage the park to work easier and a little more money. For without money, even with great joy in the mountains, much is no longer achieved. The government opinion cited was not read to the end. In the last paragraph, the government also says: Therefore, we continue to support the proposal. Since this is an important regulation concerning the future of our only national park, it will first and foremost insist on taking into account professional solutions and ensuring further living and working conditions for the local population." It's very beautifully written. And you have all received the opinion of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts and the Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia. 7th point on the back, conclusion: The manager has no influence on the construction of buildings in Triglav National Park, but is only familiar with interventions to the premises. I'm saying it doesn't hold, and I'm gonna try to prove it. On 24 September, the Slovenian Directorate for Roads sent me an answer to my question: "Why hasn't the Strmec-Mangart road, especially on the Mangart Mountain, on Sedla, which has not yet been asphalted, been modernised?" The answer was: "For environmental reasons [[In the opinion of the TNP, this section should remain non-modernised]] This section cannot be classified as a road modernisation programme." And, indeed, I was added to the opinion of the Triglav National Park of 10 September 1998, where it states on the other hand: "The arrangement of a resting place at 11 300 on the Mangart saddle in our opinion is not meaningful, the travel belt already serves as a parking area, other arrangements and interventions to the space are not necessary." Because for the second time we are talking about the law, the law on Triglav National Park, because it also sits in this hall, at least we should be sitting 90, I believe they are and we are mountaineers. Those who were on the Mangart saddle or, when you are, be aware that the road at the top is not arranged due to the desire of the Triglav National Park. Not because someone had my money or didn't want to fix the road. I was told in June of the month when it was said, "bring one document saying that damage has been done to the inhabitants" - here you have it and discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u71	Thank you. I'm giving my word to my colleague, Jozet Tank.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. I say hello to everyone. First of all, I would protest a little bit because we were being deprived of what we kind of wanted to clear up before the debate, and because you wanted to impose on us what we didn't really need and what we didn't ask for. Otherwise, today we are dealing with one of those laws that are disturbing and upsetting, and not only professional and political public, but what is happening is also a lot of resistance between citizens, among the inhabitants, especially among the locals on the Bohinian side. These decided by referendum more than 80% against and identified against changes in the park's borders. I am sure that if we put anything else to the vote at that time, let us say the whole law that a similar fate would have the full legal text. And almost certain that something similar would have happened if this law had been put to the vote at the referendum at the national level. However, today we are governed by a policy that does not regard citizens' views or the opinions of citizens, often ignores the opinions of the most professional, this is a profession, and is even less willing to take into account the voice of the people, that we do not even speak of contempt for the opinions and comments of the opposition. This is a policy that does not know the step back, which is incapable of taking time to verify, to harmonise and to think. This is in a way a policy of storm troopers, which, because of the feeling of immense power and, we can say, even a gust of anger, undermines everything in front of us. This is how we turn around in the vicious circle of showing total and totalitarian power and democratic resistance to the people at the referendums. These are almost always successful, so even the arrogant government and the majority in the National Assembly are forced to amend subsequent laws, of course, after having previously spent and spent 500 or 600 million tolars that could be spent for completely different purposes, such as refunds, subsidies for school transport, school books and so on. Thus, we have become completely unnecessary European and world champions by the number of referendums, including champions by number or by the proportion of the success of the people's resistance at the referendums. And the referendums remain the last straw to be seen by dissatisfied and despised citizens. The dear school of rejection of enforced and bad laws of the current authorities does not lead to a question of why this is happening, but, above all, this authority is concerned with how to prevent these rebellions, how to limit them, and all these rebellions are directed primarily against narrow lobbying or ideological projects. Both Democrats, both ruling Democrats, both liberal and united, are intensely seeking support for solutions that would limit or prevent the influence of voters or citizens. I do not think that the tool of the Bohinj Tribe that we are witnessing in addressing this law is the most appropriate way to implement the political will of the majority in this country, so our Group supports the efforts of the professional public to postpone the debate on the law to a time when both the professional starting points and the professional solutions will be harmonised. Of course, it must also be said that it is necessary to take into account the comments and opinions of civil associations of citizens, as well as the inhabitants and landowners in the Triglav National Park area, which will ultimately be the only guardians and parkers and parkers. I would like to refer to a few procedural reasons that somehow hinder us in order to support the procedure, and I will then give substantive reasons. First time. We can say that the procedure led by the Head of the National Assembly to deal with this law is not in accordance with the law in force, does not comply with the law on nature regulation, nature conservation. Above all, the applicants have gone around the professional bases, for they have neither mentioned nor pointed out any inconsistencies or conflicts of solutions with professional grounds. The professional basis must be taken into account or re-manufactured in any amendment to the insurance acts. These findings are particularly true of the most protected and preserved areas, of which the Triglav National Park area is certainly the subject. This law, however, is an insurance act based on the content. The second point concerns the publication or firstly, I would like to point out that the act should contain an appropriate cartographic annex and that the instrument submitted should be made public by the founder of the park in this case. For this law foresees such a change in the boundaries of the protected area as well as a change in the protection regimes. Public decommissioning and public treatment should also be carried out before adoption. In order to carry out these procedures, the founder is in charge of the nature conservation law, which is the National Assembly, and as far as I am aware, the President of the National Assembly has ignored the warnings of the professional services of this House and has put the law into practice and has caused all further complications. And I think at this point I can also criticize the president of the National Assembly, who gave in to the coalition Valara. It also informed the College of the National Assembly of shortcomings, procedural shortcomings and non-compliances, and dealt twice when it included a bill on the agenda of the National Assembly, but I do not think that the College has responded adequately. I dare say that the decision we adopted at the previous regular meeting was also misused, which provided for this law to be dealt with after addressing issues of dispute and open concern. If these questions had been cleared until this meeting, it would have been possible to do so until this September session. However, from all the comments, from all the hearings, debates, letters, references to public debates, it is clear that these professional points of view are not harmonised and there is a significant gap between the content of the law and between what it proposes and what the profession is proposing. Therefore, I consider that the decision of the 28th meeting of the National Assembly has been violated. It is clear, as I said, that the most elementary content is, but also some other, slightly hidden content, which has not even opened up because of these major systemic issues. However, this procedure continues. In doing so, I would like to say that the profession, regardless of its political background, has unanimously rejected this bill, although the profession agrees that the law needs to be corrected. However, the text submitted was unanimously rejected. We all agree, even in our parliamentary group, that the law needs to be amended. However, it is likely that no one agrees that the law is getting worse. It is more obvious that the proponents of the time offered did not use to clear and clear up controversial professional issues, but probably accounted for the fact that they would cover all the dilemmas and dissolve the resistance to a solution to the disputed solutions of the law. We find it totally inappropriate to insist on considering the law because of the above-mentioned issues. And I must point out that we strongly oppose such an approach and the approach adopted by the coalition of four parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, namely the Liberal Democrats, the United List, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS. I would like to point out that the content of this law also interferes with the content of certain other laws, and in this part we have not been alerted by the proposers nor have these interactive effects, nor have they processed them, to intervene in the law on the financing of municipalities, even in the law on consistent regional development, perhaps even in the law on the regulation of premises. I would also like to point out that this bill has direct financial implications for the state budget, although the explanation states that there are no such consequences. However, the reader can discern that these consequences are more than obvious. Furthermore, in the introduction I said that public hearing can only be convened by the founder, this is a national assembly. It cannot be invoked by anyone else, neither the affected municipality nor the Member of Parliament, and I must say that Member Vukko in this case called a public presentation or in some way public hearing, processed these comments, made reviews, summaries, conclusions, wrote what was taken into account and what would be taken into account and what was not taken into account. And I think that on this side he made a great deal of use of the Member's Institute, because for this he did not have any mandate as founder, that is to say the National Assembly. In this way, it also becomes questionable to show legal interest before a Constitutional Court. I'd also like to draw attention to minipulse with backgrounds. We need to know that, or I am almost sure, or I am sure that I am almost a Member, that at least the grounds that were presented in the law and those that were placed in the lobby of the National Assembly were not identical. Not to say that all these other public presentations are based on different backgrounds, but not on the basis set out in the Rapporteur, and this also involves some kind of balancing and manipulation. Special attention in the public, and also in our country, is being drawn to the non-inclusion of the Ministry of Environment and Space in all these public developments in this area. I think that the Ministry of Environment and Space is the one most called by the government to take care of natural heritage, to preserve and protect natural heritage. However, the ministry has withdrawn cautiously, left the initiative to four Members of the four groups and is waiting for what will actually happen through these procedures. But now we have a table opinion that actually does this, changing the park, protecting regimes and other things, even supports. After all, there is also a referendum decision in Bohinj. And I would just like to point out that, if we continue to proceed with such a procedure, there is a high likelihood that a subsequent referendum will also take place on this law. I hope that the bill of referendum and human initiative will not be amended sooner. But it seems that all these things will go this way. There are also a number of substantive reasons why this law cannot be supported. Firstly, I would like to say that there is no adequate analysis nor is there any less current situation in the park. We Members would probably expect at least some "swot" analysis, which on the one hand processed the advantages, on the other hand, which would say something about opportunities and dangers, but that is the minimum we would expect. But we can tell that there is no such thing. It is also unclear and nowhere specifically worked out, and the profession is in the clear position that this will happen. Nowhere is it written what changes in the protective regimes and thus the permissible interventions to the premises that will certainly be established, at least in the part as prescribed, and this will certainly happen sooner or later and rather to a greater extent than to a lesser extent. It is not clear whether these permissible interventions will also maintain the park category achieved as a result of changes in the protection regimes. It can happen to us that through the amendment of this law or this act of insurance we will get only one more provincial park, which will, in fact, have a Triglav landscape park ahead, but this can also happen to us, and this has been pointed out all the time. And the dilemmas here are open, the proponent claims one thing, and I think there is a reason enough to pull the brakes in this part. This proposal also changes both the external borders of the park and the internal borders of the park, and I must say that this change of borders, especially those internal borders, has somehow been planted, has not been pointed out in the text. What is still evident in this substantive work is that in some ways the lustration of the park administration works. For the management of the place or the space of the park is taken over by the congregations in their own field, so that we no longer have an independent overseer. There is, however, a solution, which includes the Park Administration, but it is no longer an independent supervisor, but there is an independent part of it that is subject to the lobbying work. The content of the law also makes it possible to feel that a number of black interventions or legalizations will be carried out. And that this will also allow for additional relaxation of interventions. And in this law it is felt that this legalization was the most burdensome task of the park’s management and then, because of this, stiffness and inanimateness were evident to it. However, in our view, the legal administration of the park, which was blocking, prevented an intense attack on the coast of Lake Bohinj and on the entire area of the protected area. From this it becomes increasingly evident that the park management was under strong pressure from local and other February waiting in the background and wishing to call on individual parts of the most protected and preserved area of Slovenian territory and to make some Bohinian Bernardin in the park area. The Ministry of Environment and Space must have been under this pressure, which has also completely moved away from the events and left the whole game to the four Members. And the Ministry's conduct in some way deserves special criticism. By its failure to respond to the debate so far, it has shown how it relates to natural values and to the protection of the environment. And I think it's sad that, in these few months of law enforcement, the ministry didn't respond and we didn't get any MOP written products on the subject of Triglav National Park until yesterday. I think it's also a major natural disaster. And the government should act urgently, as such conduct by the competent and responsible ministry and the minister is totally unacceptable. It is then written in law to take into account the principle that anything not prohibited in the Triglav Park area is permitted. I think that this starting point for an area covered by the Triglav National Park Act is not appropriate and it would be valid to legislate another, that is to say that everything expressly mentioned by the law applies. All the other, later ideas, which we know to be immeasurable, would suggest that we leave to the later revisions of the law. In addition, the law also has this flaw in that it does not provide for any funds for land purchases in the protected area. We know that a country as owner should play an active role in this area if it is to play an active role in the protected area, but this is obviously not in the interest of In addition, although this is somehow justified in the introduction, no compensation is provided for the limited and the parking arrangements for the adjusted use or processing of open space. It is also interesting that the applicants do not provide any compensation for the limitation of property rights imposed by this law or any other provision. I believe that this should also be one of the more important provisions of the law, which is intended to contribute to the equalisation of ownership and asset management in the park area. But there is no such thing in this law. The focus of the bill's proposal is primarily on the turbo generation. Article 18 also contains an exclusive solution that undermines the existing system of co-financing of investments by the State. As it is assumed here that 80 % of co-financing would be allocated to projects and investments relating to park protection and development. Which means, at home, the investor pays only VAT. All other degradation would be paid by the state in this area. In our parliamentary group, we expected that the drafters would go to the Triglav National Park Act in a much more professional way. Especially because they have strong professional and political support within their parties, their parliamentary groups. After all, the whole state apparatus with all the ministries involved and their support services and, after all, obvious capital support is available. But it's nothing of all. We just got one disabled, imperfect marriage. I would like to say that we have already had concerns about the unbalanced solutions that allow for the almost free opening of agricultural land for construction in the context of the consideration of the law on the regulation of space. Of course, we in our parliamentary group did not then expect the first major attack to be carried out right in the Triglav National Park area and that this is where the lustration of Slovenian identity will be sought. Everyone knows that we Slovenians like to behave, even identify with heaven under Triglav. It is unfortunate, however, that for the majority of the people of Triglav and the park around him there is also a value, while for the applicants there is only a means. In doing so, I would also like to draw attention to the initiative to change the state symbols put into the procedure by my fellow Member, Školč, which somehow fits into all these changes around the Triglav National Park and so on. And we're obviously going to get slowly as a symbol in our crest of Storžič or some other peak. The Group agrees that it is necessary to amend the law, but we do not agree with the way and approach, nor with the procedure, which is, in its own words, "declared" and inconsistent with the legislation. We are aware that there is nothing to hang on to a flimsy marriage without a spine, so we will propose that the law be rejected in our parliamentary group because of great non-conformity, because of unimaginable solutions and an approach which challenges all public, professional and public opinion. And as we say, we won't support him either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u73	Thank you. I will now, at the request of the applicant, and in accordance with Rule 66(4) of the Rules of Procedure, give the floor to the applicant to explain how the requests of the national assembly to end this debate have been met and that he would already be able to respond to some of the dilemmas that were raised during this debate. The representative of the legislative service will then answer the procedural question requested. Comrade Dushan Wolf, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u74	Thank you for your words, President, and at the same time an apology that, of course, I do not yet intend to talk about what I wanted to say in the introduction, but I would, of course, have some dilemmas or explain what has been said in relation to what has now been said. First time. The referendum will be respected and yesterday there was a hearing of trust, solidarity. If, of course, the opposition does not believe in coalition parties that have already committed themselves to Members at the June session to respect the will of the people, then this is your problem, not ours. Another time. It was said that there was a legal void in the agricultural land law on purpose. Mr Sok, of course, it must be said that the nature conservation law was still in force and that the State could exercise the preliminary right in the park area for all those lands that went on sale at that time. The regional design was the function of the Triglav National Park. We have not specifically written into this law, but it is stated that the regional design of spatial development in the park area is adopted in accordance with the rules laid down by the ZUREP and read in there what the role of all of them is. It is clear, however, that the public institution of Triglav National Park plays a largely active role. The starting point for all of this will be a law setting out certain criteria, safeguard regimes. So I don't see any over-the-counter problems around here. You are disturbed or concerned, colleague Sok, recreational activity, mass recreation activity. Mass recreational activities have been taking place in the park for many years. This law has just a provision which should allow for the restriction of traffic in order to reduce this slightly, at least as regards motorised traffic. If mass recreational activity is for you, I don't know, hiking, mountain climbing, park not only to be, it's also meant for people to visit it, to experience this nature and that's the advantage. I don't think there's too much to worry about either. With regard to the provisions on advantage, which is enshrined in the law of 'legal and natural persons' from the park area. And in connection with what Comrade Tanko has pointed out, you'll find that this is some sort of precedent, an investment ratio of 80 to 20. Look, we've clearly written down the motions, and we believe that, as of today. In any way, we wanted to avoid any compensation for "ad hoc". With the payment, I don't know, 100, 200 euros a year, of course, we're going to get someone to become an area of the Triglav National Park with all its backwaters in the free area of the reserves, and people's developmental incentives are going to be killed at gunpoint, which doesn't mean, of course, that every landowner who, due to these provisions, is going to be harmed by not having a compensation claim in accordance with the Nature Conservation Act. And if something is already arranged somewhere, there is no need to redecorate in this law. Mr. Tanko spoke about the politics of the storm troopers, and today's Mag is talking about the desant on Bohinj. I don't know, it's like we're in a state of war. You know, I don't agree to disqualification that someone's high-pitched if they're willing to talk, negotiate, coordinate, listen to arguments. It's not bloated, it's not a storm. And the goddess tree mentioned is admirable. However, this tower of Bohinj protected the area and probably the trentar, the bovetary reed. These people protected nature in such a way that the state could protect it in 1981. They're letting Rupar's pills go by asking the chairman not to bother me. Public presentation and public decomposition. According to the Nature Conservation Act, a public presentation was made and the purpose of this public presentation under the Nature Conservation Act is to inform the public of the provisions of the law. I wouldn't repeat, the documents are where all the public presentations were made. There's no claim that the proponents wanted to manipulate the cards. For what was proposed in the basic text by amending the border, the cards were presented. This text was given the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that it is also necessary to divide the goods and the central area in the other areas of the park. The border between the edge and the central area is quite summed up in the Government's view, but for the government, this professional institution has been prepared if I want to emphasise the public institution of Triglav National Park and the forest institution. So, of course, in this part, we did not want to interfere with the proposals at the next stage. Today, too, a claim has been made that the profession has unitedly rejected the law. We are giving special weight to the opinion, the proposals of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts and the Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of a consultation held on 22 September, which was attended by various NGOs that expressed their views on this law, the Academy, together with the world, has formed a summed position and one that is correct and who reads this position, will not find a strike that strongly rejects this law. Of course, we have never claimed that the law is spotless, and I will say that there is no possibility in itself that there are some solutions that raise doubts, concerns that by misinterpretation we could allow some interventions into space or anything that would ultimately result in a mistake. But we know exactly what the procedure is. At this stage, of course, we failed procedurally and it was not possible for us to change in this text, but we did much from the first text to the text that was replaced. The replacement text is a result of the views and comments made at the public presentations. The documentation submitted to the National Assembly is clear on these observations. Some comments were taken into account in the current text, which was published in Rapporteur No 44, and these are quite a few, including comments by the Public Institute of Triglav National Park. Of course, the law in this respect is "lex specialis" and refers to a specific area, so it has certain solutions that affect other laws in some way, but it is "lex specialis", where we want the applicants, especially in this law, to give the development component. The basis used was the name, the claim of the Bohinian Bernardin. It is a concern that is completely legitimate and probably justified. Make sure the shore of Lake Bohinj is built. The coast of Lake Bohinj will not rise, and it cannot wake up. Taking into account the current law on Triglav National Park, taking into account the proposed law on Triglav National Park and taking into account the law on the protection of agricultural land, the water law. This does not mean that this area will not experience any new construction elsewhere. That doesn't mean that existing hotels won't be restored, but I don't think that's necessary. The subject of this law is somewhere else. But Lake Bohinj with such a sensitive lake field is completely protected in this way that anyone, at any time, could build such a rich investor there, especially because local authorities in the Bohinj municipality have long since realized that Bohinj should not and cannot become Bled, that he wants to have a specific offer, but it is also necessary to regulate municipal infrastructure and the rest, which belongs to some modern tourism of this type. So much for this part. However, after my turn, I will, in particular, touch on the position of the applicants towards the opinion of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts and the Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u75	Thank you very much. With or to the title, I give the replica as a guide to the rules of procedure. Not the controversy, the correction of the statement that it was.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u76	I don't have much time left. Ambassador Wolfe claims that the administration has an active role to play. See, Article 14, paragraph 5, states that the administrative permits issued to intervene in the premises are the administrative authorities responsible for their issue to inform the park manager. Since I'm gone, I'm not gonna explain, it says, something gets out and only the park manager gets to know each other. You've distorted my statement that I'm worried about mass recreation. I said that question wasn't solved. I'm worried about the fact that you're going to privatize things to the end, that there's going to be a restriction on recreational activities and that then the next phase, what the newspapers are already predicting, and what it says will have to be paid in order for everything to be charged. In fact, this area of the national park for most Slovenians will begin to be closed. But we're talking about the National Park, so I'm correcting you in these statements, my fellow Member, Wolf. Once again, what you are saying is that the administration has no such active role in establishing a regional design, or you are just predicting it, while you have written it down substantially differently in the law itself. This Article 14 is extremely, extremely questionable. I think you'll have to do it by the second stage if this is accepted today, but I think it will be because you have a sufficient majority in the coalition, but you will have to make a thorough correction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u77	Thank you. I now ask the opinion of the legislative and legal service, at your request, whether all the conditions are met so that we can continue this work today. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u78	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. A respected choir! Our job was asked: Was this procedure under way or in accordance with the Nature Conservation Act? I can say that the service has always warned that in this case the law is also a law on the protection of the wider area in accordance with the nature conservation law. It must therefore, of course, contain the content prescribed by the Nature Conservation Act for such an act. First, it is necessary, in accordance with Article 49, to indicate the natural value of the insurance, the purpose of the insurance, the rules of conduct, the manner in which the tasks necessary to achieve that purpose are managed. That's what it's called on the table of contents. Article 53 also provides that limits should be laid down and that a map or topographic plan should be attached where, in fact, the boundaries and delimitations to the parcel should be precisely indicated. We have also constantly warned the proposer about these matters, as well as colleges, as has already been said. According to our information at this time, this part is not actually controversial. As we know, the map has also actually been submitted for observation or was elaborated, if I am not mistaken, in the previous part of the general discussion. As far as the follow-up procedure is concerned, Article 58 merely provides that the founder of the public must be informed of the draft insurance acts establishing a wider protected area at a public presentation. The whole concept of nature conservation law was based on government insurance as the founder of the protected area. However, the last paragraph of Article 55 was subsequently added, in which the national park of exceptional importance could establish a national assembly by law. In this case, however, the procedure is not specifically established. That's how we face a legal void. To fill legal voids, we use the legal analogy as a consistent way of interpreting. It was therefore necessary to transpose all those requirements laid down by law for public hearings when the protected area was established by the Government into the terms of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, by which the legislative procedure was defined. In view of this, we considered that, in fact, one of the essential criteria is that the affected areas and the people on them are aware of the regimes they are "intruding" in the Act on the protection of the area, so that they can comment on it and that the applicant can identify them and accept them with professional arguments or reject them. According to our conduct, these public debates have been held on content - we have also pointed out that this is, of course, the core of public debate, which is also a matter for presentation to the National Assembly. However, we do not have in our hands any standards prohibiting or ordering who, by what decision and by which authority such a debate actually leads. From this point of view, we believe that, at this point in time, it is essential that the National Assembly has the opinion of the people in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you, too. We're not going to discuss this. Meanwhile, the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy, Mr Mag, spoke for himself. John the Dipper, whom I greet with a warm welcome, for he was not present at the beginning. I give the floor in accordance with Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. On 8 May, the Government gave its opinion on this proposal for the Triglav National Park Act and expressed its support for the adoption of the bill, which was submitted at the time by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Vukko, taking into account some comments. This proposal was later replaced. In this new text, the Government notes that the applicants have taken into account most of the comments made by the Government in its opinion, but not all of them. The fact is that the draft law has sparked a broad public debate on the importance of the National Park and the requirement for the urgent provision of this status in the future. In order to clarify the position of the affected people, even a special referendum was organised and the result was confirmed - which we are pleased to do - by the majority agreement on the maintenance of the current external border of the national park. In this regard, let me stress that so wide a public debate has virtually not been attended by any other law that we have considered in the past. In view of this extremely wide public response to the solutions in the proposed law, the applicants later contacted the competent nature protection professional institutions. This integration, I must stress in particular, has been established in agreement with the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy and also with our assistance. The Ministry has cooperated with Mr Dusan Vukko in the design and placement of new solutions in the already tabled new draft law, taking into account also the responses and comments from the general public to the initial proposal. In addition to the comments we have already tabled on the amendment of the borders, we consider or have two more important proposals. First of all, in our opinion, it is necessary to maintain the unaltered entire external border of the park and to correct the provision of Article 5 of the law so as to avoid the proposed withdrawal of settlements from the park in the area of the Bohinj municipality. Secondly, the government points out that some of the solutions proposed primarily for this institution of competence, the nature protection institution and the public institution of Triglav National Park will have to be incorporated into the law in the future. These are corrections to Articles 13, 31 of the draft law and to some others. These changes are also necessary in terms of consistency with the applicable nature conservation legislation, which explicitly requires the relevant professional basis for the preparation of proposals of a regulation of this nature. In view of these findings, the Government considers that the proposal for a law in some parts is significantly better than the previous version that it takes into account the main content of the comments made in the government's opinion. The Government therefore continues to support the proposal of the law. In the process of examining and adopting the proposal, the government will cooperate with the proposers and insist on taking into account the professional solutions and ensuring further living and working conditions for the local population, which we are sure is also the interest of the applicants. Allow me to briefly say a few words about some of the statements made so far in these opening statements by individual representatives of the groups. A lot of the discussions, especially the representative of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, came from feelings, he used many times the term "see" or "feel". I think that when considering a proposal for a marriage, it is particularly important what it says, not what someone feels about it. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is very important when someone comments on a proposal for a law, to know what it says elsewhere. Here in this discussion, including by the representative of New Slovenia, it has been said many times'more this should be written, it should be written', with many of these references referring to the things already laid down in the Water Act, the Law on Nature Conservation, the Law on Preservation of Space, the Law on Construction of Objects and in a number of other laws. The Law on Triglav National Park is not a law, or even a constitution that would regulate all rules for a particular area of that country. Also in the area of Triglav National Park, for example, the Water Act applies, the Nature Conservation Act and so on. The dangerous thesis that has been heard here many times today is that the law should be designed in such a way that, in principle, everything in it is prohibited, except what would be explicitly permitted. This is thesis of the 1974 Slovenian Constitution, which we have been working very hard to change in many years of democratisation of this country, and we have also succeeded in this in the new Slovenian Constitution. The new Slovenian Constitution contains the principle that everything that is not explicitly prohibited and, of course, all Slovenian legislation is based on this legal principle. When you reach into an area, of course, the state has the right to restrict certain activities there due to a wider public interest, but it must specify this in particular. But if we come from another logic to write "all things are forbidden except what is specifically stated in this law is permitted", then we come to the point where we will always forget something else. You might forget to write something as banal as that, that people can speak out loud or sing or something like that. All of this would have happened if we had taken on the legal logic advocated here by a representative of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. I therefore believe that the proposal for a law with some appropriate corrections to be introduced and proposed by the only professionally competent institutions, i.e. the Department of Nature Protection and the Public Institute of Triglav National Park, is entirely acceptable, that it is necessary and that, in my opinion, it will be accepted by the population and also by those in the Triglav National Park area and also those who are actually trying to preserve nature, but we are not looking for political points to question something that has not actually been written down, but they are talking about the fact that it comes from the text that they wanted to do so. And in the end, allow only this, even though I know it's not the subject of this law. Mr. Sok mentioned and resented my claim that Lipica was not a natural monument. Let me say that the only legal authority responsible for this is the Department of Nature Protection and this has defined Kobilana Lipica as a proposal for the regional value of local importance. The natural monument is something which, of course, is of primary importance in terms of nature conservation. But of course Lipica is a first-class cultural monument, but this is something else than a natural monument. However, the meddling of these concepts has also been shown in the debate on the proposal for a law on the Triglav National Park. That is why the vast majority of these criticisms, I think, were entirely unfounded, and, as I have already mentioned, the proposal is appropriate with appropriate corrections, so the government supports it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We continue our debate after the Members and Members of Parliament who have been declared. Igor Štemberger has the floor as the next discusser.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Members of the Party of Young Slovenia negatively assess the proposal for a law on the Triglav National Park. The general impression we received when we read the law is that obviously ruling parties are not enough to place the country, especially the next generation of citizens, under heavy taxes, which will be paid mainly by young and future generations, now you have come to the only national park we have in Slovenia. The great indignation of the professional public, the rejection referendum, the obvious deviation from the European and world-wide comparable laws of the proponents have apparently not yet convinced that the proposal is the worst thing that can happen to the national park. The transparent leaflets on the protection of natural values, which are intended to cover the grave attacks in the national park, clearly show the actual purpose, which is very far from the protection of the cultural and natural heritage of the Slovenian people. A large part of the Triglav National Park includes a rich cultural landscape, a historical heritage that has been designed and created by our ancestors over the centuries. And you do not devote any importance to the preservation, research and presentation of this cultural treasure, which is entangled in the Triglav National Park area. It would be quite different for the Group to assess the proposal if it ensured the appropriate status of the area, based on solid, globally comparable foundations, which would ensure the actual preservation of the natural and cultural heritage in the present, as well as in the future. Investors as if you do not understand or as if you do not want to understand the basic reason for the establishment of the national park, which is in particular that the State of a particular area is considering it so important for it to be declared a national park because of its desire to preserve its natural and cultural heritage and values. It is understandable that the protection of natural and cultural heritage requires certain waivers and restrictions, as this allows for the realization of protection and preservation. If we give up our limitations and our denials, then the protection remains only a godly desire that quickly turns into an affront because of liberal industries. We all know that, and it is totally unacceptable to move forward. You have sought carefully selected examples of the arrangements of some national parks from abroad that you have used torn out of context and as such misleading means to you the argument that it is such a general global arrangement of national parks. The profession reminds us that from their point of view an expert comparison is possible mainly in relation to the categories of IUCN which clearly define the categories belonging to the park. Since Triglav National Park is the only national park in Slovenia and is still small at the top, it is understandable that the economic, agricultural and other pressures on it are high. However, the processes of integration into the European Union and the impact of globalisation will continue to increase in the future. It would therefore be reasonable to expect, in anticipation of these facts, that in the new law solutions that would respond to these threats to the existence of a national park in the future would be such. This is where we face exactly the opposite approach. The National Park would like to allow anything that is not explicitly prohibited and therefore you represent the operators of the previously mentioned pressures and Trojan horses of global globalisation. You want the local population to believe that they can expect financial resources from the development of tourism and the economy, but at the same time in the law, except for the purposes of new ski resorts and cableways, do not anticipate new instruments that would benefit from existing natural and cultural gifts as advantages - for example eco tourism, cultural or educational tourism. In addition to all of this, it is important to limit the competence of the managers of the National Park in order to have a decisive impact on the planning and implementation of the park's tourism activities in the future. Even the only experts who have so far, according to our estimates, despite the small resources they have available, have been very quality and with great efforts to ensure that the National Park has been preserved to this extent, it wants to get rid of itself and then free to wander around the park. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we fully agree with experts who point out that in national parks they should have priority in managing the visit mainly those forms based on the experience of an unspoiled nature, education and preservation of cultural, natural and historical heritage, which should be aligned with the direction of the development of tourism in the park and its surroundings, not to focus on, say, the cutting of forests and the construction of new ski resorts. When we read in the bill the provisions they put at the forefront of the protected area against the protection of natural and cultural heritage, entrepreneurship, ski tourism and the reduction of restrictions on the introduction of new economic and agricultural activities, we get the feeling that this is the only territory in Slovenia where these areas have not yet been developed at the highest possible level. We find it completely misleading to argue that the bill is far from avoiding the introduction of compensation or rent as a permanent financing of protected areas of nature and that this is completely contrary to the principles of sustainable development and regional development policy. Of course, the form of compensation or rent in European legislation is a fully established practice whereby landowners in protected areas compensate for their limited ownership rights. In addition, the law allows for a number of exceptions to nature conservation measures, but of course there is no record of who allows these exceptions and is completely avoided by the park manager. Citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have the right to have at least one national park in the true sense of the word, not only on paper of poorly prepared and harmful law, which would completely degrade this area. The cultural and natural values of the park are important for the entire nation, the country and the wider international community. If we are not aware of this and do not take it into account, it is better to propose a law on the abolition of the national park, and at least people will be clear and will know what the real purpose is. Maybe they'll decide on it at some other referendum. In the end, however, I express an optimistic desire that Slovenia will receive in the near future a law on the only national park that the state deserves. If not for the other, at least out of respect for our nature, for the cultural and historical heritage and for the respect of the families we will leave the park. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u83	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Sasha Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u84	Your Honors are here! Slovenia is, geographically speaking, a small country, a small country, and there are very few areas that remain intact, which have special protection status and which have been and should have been proud of us. Therefore, I think it is all the more despicable to make a President who, at the beginning of today's debate, did not allow Members to be informed in time of such an important decision that we are deciding today. I think that, at the moment of our decision and when we create opinions, we should be aware that we are talking about the Triglav National Park, that we are not talking about one house, that we should not talk and involve individual interests in the law. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the Triglav National Park Act is harmful to our country, is harmful to citizens and citizens, and that two interests have led the proposer in the preparation of this Act: the interest of capital and the interest of individuals, which have been increasingly strong in our country lately. According to our assessment, these interests led him to misjudgement and misjudgment. The law before us and today under consideration will, according to our assessment, have the effect that the Party of Young People has previously identified before me, this is the destruction of the National Park. Is that what we really want? We do not want this in the national party, and we hope that the national assembly will not want it either. Many institutions have come forward about the debate. We have received a negative opinion from all institutions that the law is not good, that it is not needed to be lazily prepared, flat-rate, and that it has too many holes and negative consequences when it comes to life. We have been informed: Slovenian Academy of Science and Art with negative attitudes, Council for Environmental Protection with a negative attitude, Civil Committee of Triglav National Park with a negative attitude, Mountain Association of Slovenia with a negative attitude, Committees for the Conservation of Triglav National Park with a negative attitude. I believe that all of you, like me and my fellow Members from the Slovenian National Party, have been informed of these views that have come from the professional public. According to my assessment, there are laws in which we politicians have to listen to them. But not only to listen but also to their aspirations and desires and opinions, but also to take into account their desire to form them in the form of a law. And definitely the law before us doesn't carry that content. It does not bear the content that would preserve the value of the Triglav National Park for the future. In addition, I think that we must have all Members and Members at the moment of decision-making in mind also a fact which the applicant has not even denied. This is that the law will result in the legalisation of black buildings or even more in order to allow construction operations under the cover of complementary agricultural activities. I think that's one of those rules and the content of a law that should not be included in such a law. Regardless of the fact that the applicant is trying to convince him in every way that it will also have positive qualities. But in all this, at least I personally assess, we should have Members in mind that this is the only park. And that we are talking about the Triglav National Park, and that we must not be misled by the proposer when it compares some foreign, European, global parks which are, of course, its categorisation, content and status to the proposer at this time. In the Slovenian National Party, we call on the law-makers to consider the responsibility of their work to withdraw the law and leave it to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare a law that will save and encourage the national park in the long term and, if not otherwise, leave it to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Given that I have only a few seconds left, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, given that nothing has happened since the 28th regular meeting of 18.6.2003, I will repeat our position. In the Slovenian National Party, we will oppose the adoption of the law, as this part does not improve the conditions for the domestic population. In fact, it hampers the wide range of opportunities for private intervention, in our view in particular the capital of ruling parties in an area that has so far been protected as a national asset. I do not think we should lose the values of national wealth in our decision. By adopting this law, you will destroy these values. We will not support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u85	Thank you. My colleague Majda Shirca has the floor for discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u86	Thank you very much. It is understandable, in some ways, that this subject raises some fear because the fear of environmental protection is in some way legitimate in the sense that, possibly by means of the regulation proposed in this law, the status of the Triglav National Park area may or may not be distorted. This fear has already been so widespread among some debaters that it has blurred the view that they have actually changed the proposal for the Triglav National Park as a law if I turn to the opinion of my two previous interlocutors, rather than to the view that it is a proposal for a law to abolish the Triglav National Park rather than to preserve it. Fear, I said, is understandable in view of the fact that it is always difficult to find a balance when it comes to maintaining a protected area or the goods obtained, but also within these it is difficult to allow some normal development or life that will not fall into all categories of the absolutely protected reserve with non-life conditions. In this sense, I see that the bill makes sense to correct what made him seen as lifeless. The bill had evolution. A great multitude of people participated, from the so-called voice of the people to the people of the citizens, to the voice of the co-ordinators, to the voice of academics, journalists and others who are professionally competent for them. It is important that this voice, which has been expressed in this process and in this period when this interruption has actually occurred, is taken into account in the future. I am the first one not to support the law if in constructive solutions and proposed solutions this vote would not be taken into account in the sense that this so-called present incorruptibility would be rectified. This vote made constructive comments. Nor is it true that such a voice of academics, people, and others would not seek salvation. But they didn't, as it was said, only automatic rejection. It is true, however, that this discussion did not take place within the National Assembly, and perhaps it did, but it did move into the field of expertise. If you seem relevant to me, it seems to me that the maturity of this political auditorium will be so great that it will summarise this opinion. I would point to just one more matter that I understand as my voice, and I would actually like to hear or introduce in the next proceedings. Not only because of this fear that potential acquisitions and protections that have already been incorporated into others and given them the basis of other laws would not be enforced, but because of the commitment to apply at all. It is a wish that Article 34 of the transitional provisions clearly commits itself or that the Government, both the Minister and the local communities, both the authorities responsible for the public service in the area of Triglav National Park should clearly commit themselves to doing so, in order to either enter and declare in a specific time-limited area of State importance in this area. I can appeal, I don't know, to Alaska's stop, to Zois's castle and so on, that the Minister responsible for culture and the Minister responsible for nature protection would define or introduce the inverterisation that has been carried out so far and has not yet been registered in his acts. Over a period of time, I would draw up a register of cultural heritage in order for local communities to declare local monuments of local importance with appropriate protection services during a certain period. Above all, I think it is very important for us to define whether the authorities responsible for the provision of public services should prepare professional designs to determine, in a way, a network defining the characteristics of either building heritage or providing baselines, guidance or even conditions for the security of heritage throughout the entire area of the park. This categorisation has somehow not been carried out, or these instructions have been given very much of themselves, nor are they uniform and may not even take into account all traditional or cultural characteristics that fall within the authenticity of a particular area. This seems very important to me that this law would also, of course, be complemented in the second and subsequent proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u87	Thank you. I give the word to France the Rock.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. It is a fact that we are facing a bill that has triggered a very large response in the public and also a discussion of both the professional public and the local community as well. If we look at Triglav National Park, it's the only national park, that's what we've been told so many times today. From this point of view, the approach to the proposed solutions must be sensitive and sensitive. However, the fact is that people live in this area as well, and that this area is in fact needed under the criteria prescribed, even under international criteria to ensure as much as possible and as flexible life as possible. From this perspective, I believe that the proposals in terms of creating a more flexible law on the Triglav National Park are undoubtedly in place. The fact is, there is probably no one here in the hall who would not yet be visitors to the Triglav National Park, and the real interest of the state must be that people remain in this area. Not that this area, I don't know how, but it must not change, but at least these people need to be given the right life and also the preservation of nature, the unspoiled nature in this area. This is probably one of the proposals put forward. Of course, this is the fact that a referendum took place this summer. The applicants said that it was necessary, and that they had made a clear commitment to respect the decision at the referendum, that the local settlements, both Fish Laz, Old Fužin and Studor, had decided to stay in the Triglav National Park area. From this point of view, I believe that it is also necessary to listen to the opinion of the local population. But not only in this area, but also in other areas. Public presentations were also presented in other areas, and individual views were already presented. In addition, these solutions need to be coordinated, namely with the professional public or institutions in this area. That's why I think any rush here would be inappropriate. However, I believe that if the interest of this national assembly, whether it is the candidates, both the positions or the opposition, it is possible to unite here, to continue this legislative process and to jointly prepare solutions that will actually take into account all these sensitive moments that I have been talking about. On this basis, I see no reason why, in fact, things that have proved unacceptable in life in the present law would not have made it easier to change the law, but, of course, prevented any possibility that capital would have too much appetite and the possibility of reaching a whole space. However, the fact is that wherever a country has over-restricted a certain area with protection regimes and interventions into space, because at least a few of its livelihoods have not been allowed, it has stagnated there before it has evolved. It is true, however, that it is a national park, a national park that needs to be viewed in fact with other eyes. That is why I believe that this is a very difficult task, which has also been undertaken by the drafters of this law. I believe, however, that in view of all the problems that have just occurred at this time, it would be irresponsible of the legislator if he did not follow the path of these positive changes, and I have also followed it further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u89	Thank you. I'd give the word to France Tsukati, he's not here. Joseph Skull has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I would also like to join those who say that this proposal has stirred up the most diverse sections of this professional public and from this point of view is our fellow Member Vukko's proposal as the first to sign, and the other three are more than welcome to discuss the Triglav National Park. What now arises as the most relevant question for the National Assembly is: Can we trust the four signatories to the extent that the various proposals, the various ideas that have been encouraged by this proposal, can be translated into consistent legal solutions? Can we gain better protection from what we know at this time as the Triglav National Park? By the time this law was introduced, it would have been very difficult to find people who knew life in the park or the solution or people who lived in the park who would be satisfied with the law that is still in force today. The fact that the law is problematic has been invoked either in the municipalities when it was necessary to issue certain papers, the administrative units are, I say, practically capitulated before the unspecified limits of the park. The Ministry of the Environment was, as far as this is concerned, very paralysed in key matters as well, the TNP administration also called on it not to have the right instruments to enable the park to live as they wished. But the inhabitants were convinced that this meant terrible restrictions on living in the park. Very few people have been able to praise the solutions in force. Maybe I was one of the few who said it was good to have at least some limitations, because otherwise it would go all the way. We are now in a paradoxical situation that we have a proposal for a change and a large number of interests and assumptions about backgrounds and backgrounds. I see my commitment to getting a new law in directions that can be divergent to many, who are also trying to implement certain solutions. What I myself think must be done is that the law is more clear and determined in its limitations. That's why I think all those terms that say he has to be flexible, because I don't know what I don't know is very problematic. The law must have precise limits and the law must be very, as it is said, determined in what is what constitutes a park. There's still a lot missing in the text we've got ahead of us. Equally problematic are those terms that say that the development of the park needs to be made possible. The question is, what exactly does the development of the park mean, because in fact, parks can stay because they can preserve a condition, because they keep it as a protected entity, they don't allow certain interventions and so on. In these things, when we all say that we want to have a more modern arrangement in the park, we use terms that are not entirely clear and specific. Of course, I am also disturbed by those solutions that seem very domestic to most in this hall - that access must be restricted, such and different, to foreigners to the park. With this, of course, I do not mean this direct property that someone can buy something or not, but in this sense it is necessary to form these instruments of pre-purchase rights, which must be from public funds rather than private funds, but I think somehow this fear of abroad is incubated by what is truly the content of national parks and the importance of national parks. National parks in the world are being set up primarily to show some wealth of a particular country, some speciality, either naturally or combined with culture and in this sense UNESCO, as the one who gives a list of the most important things, promotes this as a common good, I will say, humanity or different cultures. From this point of view, it seems to me that this locality is being demoralized, for example, by the Trentars, that they will not always be the Bohinjs in the first place, either the Bohinjs or whoever they are most called to decide would still relativize it. The Julian Alps also became known for the Trentars and others, but they were promoted by Kugy, for example. The Sochi trout, for example, today would have a different fate from that of French enthusiasts if we were talking about things that are connected to this park. The importance of the Soviet front as some phenomenon of civilisation, according to World War I, the significance of this phenomenon was actually reopened to us by foreigners when they rewarded the efforts of the locals to tell us what had happened to all of this. From this point of view, this park, if we are to make it national, needs to be made open to these wider values than we can directly manage. In fact, the great disadvantage of this protection is the result of, or also of, such solutions in the law, some not so long ago when these common protection services, which protected nature and culture, were broken down, as they were called. This division of these services in the early 1990s caused a stalemate in a wide range of areas and, of course, also caused a conflict between these two services for primate over territory. And in this marriage, I'm going to say, the significant influence of the naturalists, which I don't dispute. What is lacking and what the park has set up is also the protection of cultural heritage, but not only in terms of what Shirca colleague said, it is necessary to look at the monuments protected in this park, but also to understand the importance of cultural landscape as a value. One of the most difficult things before the applicants is to balance the importance of this cultural dimension of the park for the final adoption. Because if, I say, I'm going to caricature it, not to take it for the worst evil, but if there was only one side to it, then it would mean that at some point in time we could completely disappear those images that we say are stored in our photos by JakaCop, like processed Alpine valleys. The bees, which everyone is so proud of, could grow up very quickly in the midst of the most frequent spruce. They would have stayed as a building heirloom, but these functions, which they had, are said to have serviced what had grown on the lawns, would no longer have. What's the point of this if we don't show this Slovenian specialty? These are things that would suggest putting them into this law and that are a challenge, I will say, not so much to question what someone will bring into this law, but the opportunity to make the park more strict on our occasions, not to say development and in our limitations. If the text is prepared for a second reading, because the key role of this parental committee in particular will be taken up by these comments, which, as I understand them in the vast majority, are acceptable to the drafter of the law, then, in fact, the real dilemma will be whether the law should be allowed to go forward or not after the end of the second reading. It will then be clear whether this broad discussion has opened up the protection of this park or not. If there is a large part of this to the citizens, then I say forward, I myself am willing to vote for such a law, but if not, then I will probably join those who say that someone else should prepare a better text. However, when we talk about this alternative, it is only necessary to know that initiatives to change the law have been in circulation for a very long time and, however, these services, which would have had to somehow prepare these changes, have not done so. And why it didn't happen is another story. But these alternate texts that we're hearing about right now, if we had, let's say, the administration, whether it's a nature protection service or someone else's opportunity to propose their own text, it would be better, we didn't see that. Despite the fact that these are, I will say, the eternal service of the higher-a-vis of this debate, which is now going on for a good year. Let me somehow invite you to formulate as many requirements as possible for the clear regulation of the park as we try to get through this parental committee and decide whether the solutions will be better or worse than what we have at this point. And that goes for sure, I'll say, through the parties and in my judgment, as I said, even through whether anyone has a personal experience with the park or not. The referendum that was held in Bohinj gives us an opportunity for some kind of thesis, not that people refused the park, but that they calculated that the park was a better opportunity for them than to come outside the park border. That is why I think that we should think - not that the limits of the park remain the same, but that we should see if it can be extended in certain areas. Tolmin and cobars have, I'll say, a territory that would be more than appropriate to extend this so-called, edged area. And last of all, as far as these most protected ones are concerned, it is said, the central zones, I think that this must be overturned, not only from a natural point of view, but also from a cultural point of view. It is not necessarily the most important part of the park where people do not live, that is a rather wrong view. This element of the cultural landscape can also contain very important elements of the park. And that the country is not completely powerless here, can be seen in the title of the law on the elimination of the consequences of the earthquake, where in Posoč, where the state technical office has had, I will say, the power to intervene in the way of reconstruction, is done so that this building heritage is completely restored in the spirit of this tradition. This means that we have knowledge that can also preserve a steep roof in Trenta, compared to what worries someone that some newtories are coming. The instrument was completely simple there: the houses that were declared as some kind of heritage were restored in this way and can today be an example to anyone, including those who can invest money without great reservations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Franz Onion would have got the word, but he's not here. That's why I give the word to Paul Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my request for a response from my colleague, Vukko, on the line he said in his speech: "The tablets are being dropped on my colleague Rupar" and so on. I demand an answer to what he meant, which pills, and if this is his delusion, I request a public apology immediately in this Chamber. The law before us is the first death penalty for Triglav National Park. After decades, this is an attempt to introduce capital and destroy everything that has kept us as good a marriage as it has allowed us to keep. I must say that, as the law has been said today, there is no law that would end the national park or that this proposal does not abolish it. However, there is also no requirement to make such a law so that they can parkhermetically lock up for anything. In any case, the proposal has so decimated in terms of the damage it can cause that we can talk about a law that determines the slow death of our only park. I am sorry that the applicants do not take into account any appeals made both by the profession and by the people and by others. But they go as bulldozers forward in accepting as bulldozers and all other mechanics in construction, both through Bohinj, through Trento and everywhere where restrictions and prohibitions currently apply. Today, there have been quite a few such nonsensees here that I have to respond to them. In fact, those who know national parks as much as they know national parks, national parks in foreign countries - for example, in Austria there are quite a few in America - know exactly that they cannot be built in either hotels or private houses or settlements. And here we have a desire to build, but after the construction, I don't know what huge parking spaces are completely over. They're building parking spaces, houses and everything outside these parks. People who want to see the park drive by buses and so-called "shuttli" in the park to watch these sights. We wouldn't have taken that into account. The cultural heritage given to us in Triglav National Park is truly unique. Those whom we have looked at and who live in this area can talk about the park with different feelings and express different concerns than those who are there just because of daily personal interests. The difficulty or difficulty of living in this national park was mentioned. Look, solutions abroad are very simple. At least in Bohinj, at the referendum, people expressed their desire to remain there as they are. However, I believe that their lives are partly deprived of it. So profit or whatever else is not possible there. None of the candidates, nor one in the National Assembly, came up with a proposal that, because they are living under special conditions, the State would grant a subsidy, an allowance for living within the National Park. For me, it was - I'm sorry - a senseless desire to build roads towards Mangart. It's a complete nonsense to have farmers there carrying cheese and straw on their heads. So why not? It's unique, and it's probably nowhere else to look. Why don't we keep it with us? To those who try so hard and who know it. Give them, for God's sake, financial assistance with subsidies! Let's keep it the way it is! These people wear this for the sake of survival. Not because they like to wear it on their heads, but because, of course, they don't have other options. But if they were given a subsidy instead of a paved road, they would still have a cultural heritage, their tradition: Even those who have no idea what it looks like, at least in life, could have met this past. However, I still think the applicants concerned are a phenomenon because they wear straw and hay on their heads because they do it inside their heads. I'm sorry to have to say that. But that's right. I'd like to mention the hunt. Hunting is prohibited in the narrow part of Triglav National Park. No one's controlling him. I would like to remind you that the law should be written on the terms that they are, but these conditions to preserve them as they are. Take a look at the road to Vršič from the mountain direction. From year to year, it's worse and inappropriate. No one remembers writing something to settle this road, which is an existing state of some normal transportation and normal road. The other thing is on the trance side, there's as much as there is. But it's impossible from Gorenjska. I mentioned hunting. No one writes and no one implements the hunting law within the Triglav National Park. He's weak. If I did, then there wouldn't be an affair that she was. I don't know, I think two, three years ago, when they found trophies in the homes of individuals right out of this Triglav National Park. Who is implementing the existing laws? How do we now liberally allow the extension of these anomalies within this park? There are other things that need to be protected and monitored. Let's just say the above-mentioned architectural heritage. No more haystacks, no more costs, no more pastures, no more households on the outside still preserved, but inside these are black buildings, because houses and buildings have been turned into luxurious weekends. I wonder: Who in this country has already infiltrated any such black construction and forbidden anyone or ordered the matter to return to its original state? I haven't heard that before, but I've been pushing this land for a while, but... You know, the expert opinions that were given are not opinions that would come just for fun. These are the opinions that they are. No one asked them to do that. That's the biggest irony. No one invited these experts or the academy. They all responded by themselves out of the knowledge that it is necessary to prevent - forgive - such a law that would destroy what we have and for fear that this would not really happen. So the profession responded on its own. People responded on their own. Public opinion is not just here in Parliament. Public opinion only of these few groups that have given their opinion. Public opinion is talking to people in the field for me. Only one conversation -- as far as I know -- came out. And it's in Bohinj. Bohinj responded immediately. He said right away, "Oh, no, that's not it. I don't know if it was in the Bovec. In Kobarid, there was no such thing in Trenta. These conversations with people have not been done anywhere. The people who live in this park are the ones who should say, "Yes, I agree to live under conditions like these now or not, change the law to make it easier for me too." If so, then many alternatives that I have already mentioned must also be provided. If you say, "Okay, let's keep the national park or the national park, keep your life the way it is, so you have problems." You should also say, "You have the money to make it easier for you to live. To make it easier for you to face these hardships, which this law dictates to you." This is what we have, for example, arranged in water supply zones, where people, because farmers are not allowed to fertilize, get subsidies for this because they are disadvantaged for good. We could've done the same thing here, and it doesn't come to anyone. Why doesn't that come to anyone? Especially because all of this has involved capital, money, some individuals who want to build. Personally, I think they've even forgotten Trento, Bovec and Kobarid. But they were thinking about Bohinj. To Bohinj, which is closer, more accessible, closer to Ljubljana, closer to abroad. Now here's that hack that-- I'm going to say now-- the seduced Wolf insists on this marriage. Why are you being seduced? I'll tell you everything. If the Bohinjs said no, if the profession said no, why insist on this marriage? Simply because there's profit in the back, capital. That's what the paper says. That's what the Blahians are talking about. This capital has already made a move in the sale or purchase of property in Bohinj. I'm not just talking about the well-known 5,000 square metres of beautiful meadow by the lake, where the hotel is supposed to be made with 500, now with 300 beds. It's a total disaster. In what form of the hotel, this, I don't know what's gonna happen. But imagine that Leo wanted to be in Ljubljana with so many beds. Do you picture this crazy giant building in any form on Lake Bohinj? I can't imagine her. But it's the wish of a few people who have the money to do it there now. Some parking spaces for 2500 to 3000 cars by Lake Bohinj. You can call me 300 meters from Lake Bohinj. But if you'll excuse me from the mosquito, when I watch Bohinj back down, I'm gonna see this huge mess in the middle of nature, in the middle of the most beautiful pearl. Enough irony, I'll say it. I was in Graz this morning, and I saw a picture of Lake Bohinj, which a very enterprising man has in one company. He didn't know he was watching the pearl. He didn't know he was looking at Bohinj and it was inside their parks. I had to tell him today that this is with us and that this picture is of temporary importance. Because in the next step, you're going to erase this painting and this nature. Get out of this world! Those who have feelings and compassion for this nature must do something to fight to stop this nonsense for the sake of money. For the sake of money, everything and only money! What I'm about to read isn't twisted. That's the truth. Pressures are the worst so far. They don't listen to us, either the mayor or the MP. And everyone's gonna put something in their pocket. What are you gonna put in your pocket? Mr. Wolf, what are you gonna put in your pocket? Tell the public what people are talking about. Tell me, what is this newspaper about? It's a bribe, is it corruption? What's that? I'm asking you to answer this statement in the paper and the people's claim. Is this now forced and some discipline on you by those who insist on changing this law to do so? I'm warning you again, people aren't up for this. Those who respect Bohinj as a natural heritage that we respect people who respect their property that they inherited from their ancestors do not care what happens to Bohinj. We are not daily tourists there just once or twice a year when we wash our dirty feet in that Bohinj lake. I'm very surprised. I was happy when after the elections of the previous term, they said, "It is finally the first time since World War II that one Bohinjec will be sitting in Parliament," and in Slovenia it is definitely. I regret that today. Since the first one should be called--no, because you're not the autochthon of Bohinj'c, you've just pitched in there--but you don't feel that way about your place, I resent that. I resent that! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u93	Mr. Rupar, you've gone a little over that line, as my colleague Wolfe used to run. I call on everyone to avoid conflict with each other. It's time for the debate, Comrade Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u94	From minute to minute, my colleague Ruparja's performance, my indica, my fear of letting go of his pills, just proves it's completely justified. [[Contracts from the hall: "Wolf, what pills?"]] Persen, Persen is the one for reconciliation. So I would ask you to [[...]] [["But I don't have any!"]] Yeah, I don't know, but then we should. [[Objection from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u95	Please avoid interference with the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u96	[[From the hall.]] Mr. Vice President, I demand you apologize to me!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u97	He's got a word for it. [[Objection from the hall.]] Please! Please, let's calm down!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u98	[[From the hall.]] You will apologize for any insult! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u99	Please, let's calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u100	[[From the hall.]] Yet you have no perfect authority in this country!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u101	One of us has power over one of us. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Can I have a word, Vice President?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u102	I will allow it on a case-by-case basis, but with regard to the implementation of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u103	Mr Vice President, I think there must be rules, some ethics in this national council, so I ask for your protection. I've already asked you in the past, but you made mistakes, and you didn't take that into account. Turn it off, remove your colleague Wolf because he insulted his "momilas" colleague Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u104	That's not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u105	As far as I can tell, there's no way of knowing, Comrade Rupar. It is not possible for a party that actually promotes the use of drugs to condemn others. [[Contracts from the hall.]] Please respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u106	I'm calling everyone to calm down. We continue the debate. My friend Wolf has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u107	I will take advantage of the time I had in the time of the Group as a Member. I will take this opportunity to reject any speculation about what my colleague, Rupar, has said. Especially the ones that should be in someone's pocket. If I change my mind about what we're wearing in our heads. Of course, he did not offend or touch me but also fellow signatories. But there's something I'd like to answer. Just to pour ourselves some clean wine. It is true that a new hotel will be built in Fish's Laz. Following the current law on Triglav National Park, spatial acts are within the jurisdiction of local communities. In 1991, the former municipality of Radovljica defined the area in the village of Ribčev Laz on the edge of the settlement as a tourist activity and in the planning documents stated that the regulatory plan for this area must be approved as a spatial implementing act. The municipality has started the procedure and has now taken it into account randomly with the ongoing efforts of investors of the former owners of Alpinum and the current owners of Alpinum in this direction that the regulatory plan has been adopted. This has a kind of indirect connection with this law in the sense that we are also talking in law about the provisions relating to the regulation of premises. The mandatory starting point for all acts of the municipality in the park area will be the new regional design for spatial development. With this regional concept of spatial development in the park area, local communities, parks, state and nature management will coordinate their interests. However, these interests can be coordinated only and only within the framework of legal provisions. These are perfectly clear. The central area of the national park becomes an area where no construction is allowed. Any new construction operation shall be prohibited except that exceptionally permitted. You don't see hotels in there. It is clear, however, that reconstructions and adaptations must be allowed within existing dimensions. Of course, I agree that there is a need to increase the activities of inspections in this area. There's been a lot of talk about black construction. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Court, at the initiative of the owners of holiday houses in one part to those who now wanted to break weekends, has stalled the implementation of this regulation adopted by the Government. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court will decide on the fate of this regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Janez Podobnik is not present, Dr. Miha Brejc has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now, after all that we have heard and read earlier today, I would say that this is one significant ignorance of the proposers of this law. But I am also disappointed by what I have heard from our legislative and legal services. Article 1 of the bill provides for the establishment of a national park called Triglav National Park by this law. It's clearly written. In its assessment of the reasons for the adoption of the law, the applicant points out that the proposal does not establish the Triglav National Park because it was already established by the law in force in 1981 and that, according to Article 36 of the proposal, the law is terminated by the application of the law. In my opinion, on the basis of the fact that they are not setting up a park, they also stated that it is not a new act establishing a protected area, but merely a change. So, what does that mean? The fact is, it's not about change. The fact is, it's about creating a whole new act. On this basis it can be said that it can be concluded that the applicants do not know the provisions of the Zone, the Nature Conservation Act. How to establish a wider protected area, who is the founder of such an area. The public presentation carried out by the applicants was not carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Nature Conservation Act. The proposer in Article 1 of the bill establishes the TNP, after which he should take into account the nature conservation law, finds that the park does not establish but is subject to changes. Please! That's clear to everyone when he reads the text. That's why I'm surprised no one notices. I've been expecting you. That is why we have also proposed today that our legislative and legal service respond to the response. It is more than obvious that procedural errors are at stake and that the proposal simply cannot be considered because the applicant did not comply with the provisions of the Nature Conservation Act. According to this law, the founder of the park is the National Assembly. Article 55, paragraph 7. In this regard, the ZON, the Nature Conservation Act, is clear. Since it stipulates that the founder - please stress this - the founder of the familiar public with the draft insurance act. That's Article 58. Even if it were to change the act - which is not the case in this case - as we see and what I have said more than once today, the public should be informed by the founder, not by the proposer. But it's our legal-law job anyway. You, too, apparently. We've only adopted laws in this house. For the first time in our lives, those who adopt laws would do well to know these laws if we were to propose something. Secondly, to stick to these rules as we need to. Mrs Bitenchev says in her current reply or opinion that - I will not quote all of this because we have all heard it - I would only warn - that "a national park of exceptional importance can establish a national assembly". That's exactly what she said. The National Assembly is the founder. Well, and then on and on, and so on, it uses an analogy: "in view of that we considered." I quote: "that, in fact, one of the essential criteria is that the affected areas and the people in them are familiar with the regimes which threaten them with the protection act of this area, that they may comment on it and that the applicant may be identified, of course, by professional arguments, to accept or reject it." Now I quote what Mrs Bitenchev has just said. Now let's see what it's like to have a public presentation. She then said: "We do not have in our hands any standards to prohibit or command, by which decision and by which authority such a debate leads. From this point of view, we believe that the most important thing at this point is that the National Assembly has the opinion of the people in this area." Now, let us see, on 31 March, 7 April and 14 April, public tribunals were held, but presentations were made. But when we looked at who was there, we saw that they were there: Mr Dusan Vukko, the proposer, and Mr Marjan Jarkovic, a consultant in the PS ZLSD, your group, Tanja Slak, a consultant in the parliamentary group, and Sasha Mehak, who works - if I am not mistaken - in the computer service. So, where's the profession? Where is our legislative and legal service that would say something on behalf of the founder in this regard? She's not here. She wasn't here! This is shown on the basis of your documents which are publicly available. That's what they say. There's no profession here. If anyone says that it was a public - I think - debate on these proposals has been held, he will only be able to say that it was done without a professional public presentation. So there was no professional presence. There was no involvement of the professional services of the National Assembly. However, if it has already been found that there is a legal void, what we have heard today - yes, is not the legal and legislative service of our national assembly the one that should say - but in due time, not today at our express request - be careful, in this case, Mr Vukko, it is just that there is a legal void. We have to solve this problem. I would expect that the legislative and legal service, so correct, when the time of the marriage was introduced, would warn and say, listen, this is a vague thing. From June to today, we would have lived long enough to deal with all these issues properly. You've been through this peacefully. And now you may be angry with us, because - we warn you - there are some that you do not stick to. Now the question is, how much sense does it make to keep talking, because I'm afraid that, anyway, it doesn't matter? But since this is an extremely important law, it would be right to take matters seriously and really listen to arguments. According to the Nature Conservation Act - you know this law very little. That's what the whole text shows. That's not my opinion, that's the opinion of experts. According to the Nature Conservation Act, it is also clear what this act establishing the protected area must contain. Here again, we find that the proposaler did not take all this into account because - not to repeat it again, but also there are international standards of guidance on nature protection. The question is also what will be the management plan to be adopted on the basis of the creation act. I didn't find anything about it in the marriage. Now, if I have overlooked, I apologize to the motioner. I'd really like you to show me where it says because I didn't find it. So, I would like to know this last one, so what will be the management plan, which will be adopted on the basis of the creation act, where this is defined in the law. The warning is valid - and there was some talk about it today, but it doesn't matter. If I repeat, we are not only talking about the natural landscape, but also about the cultural landscape. Which means that the Ministry of Culture should also be involved in the drafting of the law. The principle is that everything is allowed in the park, which is not explicitly stated in the law. This principle has caused a lot of excitement, which is understandable. In a natural environment that deals with so many natural features and wealth, which is our common wealth, surely this rule cannot apply. It can't apply. Now, if I was very sarcastic, I'd say, "Yeah, well. There's nothing in the law that says we can't go there with St. John. And it's fine cold water, so we can't set up one small nuclear power plant." You know how many of these abuse options there are if we were to bet on this rule. In marriage, we cannot even determine all those practices that are contrary to the basic idea of the Triglav National Park. They cannot be determined. That is why it is not possible to apply this principle. This principle - unfortunately - should be marked as non-civilised in such a case, if it were to apply. I also think there is a provision in the proposal for a law on the reconstruction of replacement construction in the central area. In view of what we have heard many times before, that construction is being prepared in Bohinj, for example, with changes to the spatial act - because I don't know how far these things really are, I haven't seen it myself. But according to the media that's been doing a lot of work on these things, I'd say there's probably some tendency to be built here. You know, I don't mind building if it's in the context of some environmental development, if that's in line with some high standards. However, I would rather see to it that we take care of those hotels or tourist facilities - to say the widest - that exist in the Triglav National Park area. Here are those who know the Triglav National Park better, which we are passing, not only transporting, we find plenty of cases of how poorly maintained - not to say - objects that could be first-class tourist facilities are abandoned. And nothing happens. So I'm saying, first I'd fix what's already built, and then I'd develop it, and then I'd open up opportunities with a new spatial act. The profession has made a lot of comments on the bill, which, of course, goes in the opposite direction of what we have heard. That's why I think it's appropriate to consider it. The insistence on this text seems to me - Mr Vukko - it would be irrational for me not to say more harshly, senselessly. I therefore do not think that this proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u110	Thank you. He wanted the word "proposer" in the middle. First-signed Dusan Wolf, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u111	Thank you for your word, chairman. One explanation of what Brejc found and discussed at the outset. The fact is that we do not create a new protected area by means of this law. However, because for nomotechnic reasons changes and additions would interfere so that the text would be completely different, because we should open each article - you need to read the existing one - because it is written in the spirit of that time, of course we get suggestions that a new law and an old one should be written for nomotechnical reasons. Because when we undo that, he's gone. Gani. You can't read it anymore. Do you have anything to say in the introduction? "We're changing." Then it would be just wrong. So that was the legal profession of the one who suggested it. However, as regards these dilemmas, which were exposed at the beginning of the procedure, it is necessary - and what has been said in the legislative and legal service today - I am fully attached. Mrs Bitenchev also said why this void had occurred. Because at first it was thought that the law would preserve nature, that the protected areas would be established only by the government. But this obligation of the founder must be interpreted, although the law also states that the founder of the national assembly. Is that right? On purpose. Which means the purpose of the public presentation - and this was done, a 60-day public decomposition with a book of comments to which you could make comments by the municipalities. Three public presentations were made at the time of the public opening. This is a legal obligation that we have lifted. The problem now arises whether we have been empowered to do so. How much was explained and then further explained? I've been talking to people who know more about this than I do. It was said. It is necessary to explain the tasks of the founders under the nature conservation law by taking over by the proposer. Therefore, my claim, even if the government were to carry out a change of law and by law of nature, could carry out a public presentation, the professional service of the National Assembly would not sit with them. What happened to those professional services was, on the one hand, a trace of a line that was logical. If we agree to establish a protected area, even though it has existed for 22 years and so on. However, with this issue, it is likely that the legislative and legal service will have to record even more clearly in the opinion, even if the law is still supported. The management plan is clearly defined. The content of the management plan is contained in the Nature Conservation Act. She's married. Of course we are - but there is something else, colleague Brac, you should already have a management plan for the Triglav National Park. As far as I am aware, the preparation of this management plan is about to be completed. The management plan is a management act whereby individual schemes or objectives of individual protection are specified and determined how the manager of the Public Office of the Triglav National Park will follow this objective and how it will manage a specific area with value - I don't know. Of course, I also agree with you that it is absolutely necessary to update in the park area the facilities that are in poor condition. However, this is a matter of owners, in particular as regards tourist facilities. Now there's one more thing. Even for spatial acts of all local communities, the role of the Directorate for the Protection of the Nature of the Republic of Slovenia, both the Ministry of Culture and the public institution of the Triglav National Park, which is concerned, is extremely important so far and will also in the future ensure that possible interventions are only possible within the scope and within the framework of the provisions which are permitted by law. But more than banning something, imposing criminal sanctions, you can't. I agree, there have been too many cases of black constructions, too many cases in the park in general when investors and owners, locals and anyone went overboard. The building’s legacy was mentioned today. The building heritage is an integral part of such [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] spatial regulatory conditions where there are clear criteria for how the roofs must be. [[..]] At least I know the spatial regulatory conditions for Bohinj TNP, for example, there is everything there, but we are running out of control when we have allowed so-called self-building when it is done, there are no quick effective sanctions against those who violate these rules, which are written in terms of the preserved building heritage. In such a way that my conclusion and the conclusion of the applicants are that this law has also raised issues that are far from just the subject of this law. There are systemic problems that are regulated by other sectoral laws. Here I will write down the law on the regulation of premises, the law on the construction of buildings, not to mention the law on agricultural land, has already been mentioned today. Then we have a law on forests, then we have a law on water, and we have a terrible law that kind of tanges in it, and of course they have their own. Therefore, the duplication of the content of this law in this law is unnecessary at least at the discretion of the applicants. But we will, and we've already tried to do more. What colleague Školč pointed out was that cultural heritage, as an indivisible thing in space, would be tried with some instruments to introduce more specifically into this law, so that the park and the competent ministry of culture would be as well. We will not be able to avoid the fact that the department responsible for culture has set aside something in this park so that this cultural heritage, the landscape, will also be preserved more clearly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u112	Thank you. Dr. Brace, you wanted to. I didn't understand what you wanted, please. [[...]] You have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u113	I want what he is, not his last answers. Very briefly. Firstly, talking about nomotechnical reasons as the essential criterion that the law is the same as it is is something that the legal profession certainly does not accept. This is just an emergency exit that is not appropriate in a serious country, not when it does not establish something as important as the Triglav National Park. If the law of 1981 is bad, and that's why you're going into this action, just to be rewritten or whatever, okay. But then it's the way it's supposed to be. You yourself have found, dear fellow Wolf, that when you said - I don't know if I was quoting you right now - it's not just this law, it's not only this law that works in Triglav National Park, but there are many other laws, the building law. You've listed and so on. It is said that many regulations concern this area and protect the various aspects of space regulation. That's right. But that is the key reason why we are now trying to settle this issue in a new way, because it was poorly arranged in 1981 to reorganize it. That's why it's going! Not that these are nomotechnic reasons or that I don't know what else. Well, this one really seems to be attracted to me. Look, just to get past the fact that the profession wasn't there, it's not going to work. On the one hand, you refer to the legal profession, the lawyers have advised us. So many lawyers, so many views. We know that. On the other hand, it's extremely written in the recipe, and it also kind of suits you. You said, yes, because we've done this more or less in the right way. You know, if the profession were present, I'd say I'm sorry, but that's not going to work. However, since the profession was not present, only what the proposer proposes was heard. The profession is always here to draw attention to a particular professional aspect, unless, of course, you have the proponents so qualified that you can speak to everyone. But why do you think the legislator, which means we, determined that the profession should be with us? Just like that? After all, any candidate who is first signed in some way to amend the law and so on gets some kind of mandate from the National Assembly so that he can do something in some area. That's what you did. But you have to follow the rules. You didn't follow these rules. That's my main comment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u114	Thank you. The LDS no longer has time to discuss. Procedurally, mate Tanko? No, you weren't appointed, I can't. Joseph Jerovšek also has the word as the final discusser of the list of applicants. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u115	Thank you very much. There was a lot of talk about this law, about this scribble, called the Triglav National Park Act. If we looked only at the purpose of the law, as stated in Article 1, if people did not know another, we would think that they would find, above all, the noble purpose of the proposalr. Yet, people have come to know what lies behind this law, what its purposes are, what its purpose is. Look, I expected today's debate to be over. That Mr. Wolf's interests and those behind him had been exposed for the last time. That they were exposed in public, that they were exposed at the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts and so on. But they insist! They insist! We are now in a position to have a law that is supposed to represent the ultimate protection of the Triglav National Park, an area of natural interest, the interests of people. In fact, we have before us a document that is supposed to legally legislate and protect the interests of the ruling elite, who see their own interests in the marketing of national goods in Triglav National Park, from which they are not prepared to depart. They're not ready to step down because the smell of money is so tempting. Here are the great financial interests of individuals. Here I have to say that - for example - colleague Wolf in his debate first said "the referendum will be respected". Yes, how will the referendum be respected?Oh, my God! People's plebiscite decision and actually people's plebiscite decision throughout Slovenia, where everyone has actually been defined, but you didn't have one vote that supports the content of this law. It's a non-trust! I don't trust the law. I don't trust you, Mr. Vukko, actually. Politicians resign in such a case if they get such a mistrust. How should the referendum will be respected? The referendum will can only be respected if this law withdraws. If he withdraws from him at this point and apologizes to the people there - apologizes for wanting to pass them over water in such a way. Last but not least, I have to respond to Minister Kopač, who said, "When Members here say what they see, what they feel when they marry." He suggests - and this is Minister Kopach - that they read what it says will be fulfilled. Yes, I don't know how Minister Kopač could say something like that when all people across Slovenia remember that it was he who said two years ago about the sushi law that what he said in the law would not be fulfilled, but that the laws do not fulfil that this government does not comply with the laws if they do not. Now he's telling them to read what the law says. No, people are wiser and more aware of what they're hiding, what privatisation interests. Look, we're reading here today that the legal void in land traffic wasn't accidental. It was the company from Bohinj that used the time of this legal void to purchase. That's right! You planned everything. You planned strictly. Look, I'd end up saying that every single thing is for something good. Today, people are watching us, and today they will see how, when the financial interests of this government are at work, these power elites are insurmountable. They are moving forward, even though it is already clear that - now this law is directed - the locals will be pushed in some way in the future by the government lady. But it is good because people - today people need to be warned that similar laws, as soon as they experience financial benefits in their area, will also be made for other areas. And also for Prekmurje, I don't know what, Koroško and so on and for other parts that will be attractive from this natural point of view and will reduce those rights of people who are guaranteed by natural law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u116	Thank you. I'll just give the proposer a minute if he wants. No, no, no. Then I conclude the general debate. I conclude this part, i.e. the general debate. On the proposal to decide that the law is a suitable basis for further consideration, we will decide at 6 p.m. and 5 minutes as the meeting takes place. So I interrupt this agenda item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u117	Your Honor! Good-bye! We're moving on to 16. Period of the day - Proposal for a Law on the Main Location of the Republic of Slovenia - First Defence. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Mirano Ptræ. With regard to this law, there is a group of eleven Members with a first-signed magi. Andrej Visiak requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the bill for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Miran Potch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u118	Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, Madam Mayor and representatives of the city of Ljubljana, distinguished colleague and colleague. In most European countries, the status of the capital is regulated by a specific law or by specific provisions of the laws governing local self-government. Efforts to regulate the situation of the capital in Slovenia have also been under way for almost 40 years. All attempts have been unsuccessful so far. That is why our fellow Members, Mr Anton Anderlič, Janez Sponik and I have prepared to introduce the law. In doing so, we have taken into account experience and problems so far. In particular, the proposed concept of the law and its content are to the fullest extent the result of cooperation with the competent ministries, as well as with the Municipality of Ljubljana. In the 12-year operation of our country, the Municipality of Ljubljana, as a state and administrative centre, carried out and carried out a number of tasks in various social areas. She represented the city as the capital of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia. However, it turns out that there has been a duplication and uncoordinated planning of spatial plans and development due to the unregulated relationship between the state and the city municipality. There is a lack of consistency in regulating and ensuring the economic use of space and interfering with space. There are uncoordinated financial plans for state authorities and cities. There is also unregulated urban and peaceful transport due to the tasks of state institutions, as well as foreign diplomatic consular offices and visits to statesmen in the capital. The bill seeks to ensure the conditions for the functioning of the highest national authorities and public institutions of national importance and foreign diplomatic and consular representations. The law does not interfere with the original jurisdiction of the city’s congregation, nor does it give it any additional powers. Nevertheless, it is particularly committed to taking into account the particular interest of the State in the performance of its tasks, which is linked to the capital as an administrative centre. The law also lays down the legal basis for regulating the mutual rights and obligations of the State and of the capital in providing conditions for the work of state authorities and institutions and foreign diplomatic and consular offices and in cases of special or extraordinary events of the State importance of the condition that they can be carried out successfully. Public authorities and municipal authorities must cooperate and coordinate tasks primarily in the areas of space regulation and use, spatial interventions and construction, environmental protection, urban and peaceful transport, the provision of economic and non-economic public services and public and transport security. The draft law does not therefore lay down new tasks to the capital, but rather the tasks already carried out by those authorities, but they must be carried out in concert or in agreement with the national authorities. I would also like to point out that the provisions of this law are also the legal basis for regulating the contractual relationship between the State and not only for Ljubljana as the capital, but also for all other municipalities that will carry out the tasks of State importance or when they will carry out them. Because they will have state institutions within their framework, because foreign diplomatic or, above all, consular representations will have special and extraordinary events that represent the participation of our country with abroad. Let me say that the Government has given a generally positive opinion on this proposal of the law on the proposals and comments it has made, and has assessed it as a suitable basis for regulating the substantive, organisational, time-oriented and coordinated activities of state and common interest between the two equal partners for issues to be addressed by law. In her opinion, she made it clear that she supported the concept of a law in which state authorities and municipal authorities act as partners under the system of administrative negotiation, which is becoming a custom, and an ever-increasing practice in European countries. However, it also proposed some substantial amendments that the applicants are prepared to adopt and incorporate into the concept and content of the law in the further process of enacting the law. On behalf of the candidates of colleagues Anton Anderlich and John Sponik and myself, I would like to invite Members and Members to adopt the law as a suitable basis for the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Astrid Prašnikar, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u120	Thank you and welcome. In view of the fact that the Government's opinion has already been summarised in the previous debate, I would just like to point out once again that the Government has assessed that the proposal does not affect the constitutional position of the local self-government communities, since the proposed law should be understood in particular as a provision governing relations between the two holders of public administration functions in the capital area and ensuring the mutually coordinated implementation of the tasks of the municipal community on the one hand and the state authorities on the other. We also assess that the bill provides an appropriate institutional dialogue within the development planning system and public finances, and that the tasks of both the state authorities and the municipal municipalities in the capital area are defined by the development programmes drawn up under the law. On the basis of these facts, the Government has assessed that the proposal for a capital law, which is signed by Members, is an appropriate basis for the substantive, organisational and time-conciliation of the activities of the State and the municipal community as two equal, independent administrative structures in the exercise of tasks of their competence and of state and common importance. We would also like to draw attention to the fact that, at the time of the examination of the law itself, the government has proposed, as has already been said, that certain provisions should be aligned primarily with the law on public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u121	Thank you very much. This work is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, I should have seen Mr. Cheligoy, but I don't see him in front of us. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u122	I'm sorry I didn't come right away. I thought my friend would be here sooner. In the New Slovenia Group of Members, we are committed to enacting a law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia in the National Assembly. The law, which was submitted or signed by two Members of Parliament, is intended to regulate the situation between the country and the municipal local community of Ljubljana, which has the status of the capital at the same time. There are many powers throughout the whole area in the country's domain, so there are many possibilities for conflict situations or emergency cooperation, so in New Slovenia we believe that such a law is necessary. It is incomprehensible that many times the city and the country do not find a common language, since such a situation is an exceptional opportunity for Ljubljana. The law tabled by the Member remains, however, at a general level and reflects a solution in the manner of communication between the city and the country. The text of the law shows that we do not yet have a proper idea of what the real role of the capital is, which is becoming the capital of one of the countries of the European Union. The provisions of the law relate to applicable legislation in the field of coherent regional development, the use of space, the organisation and implementation of the tasks of the state administration, local self-government and others. While the law does not impose the obligation of the local community to be sovereign in implementation, it seeks to lay the groundwork for appropriate cooperation. Other countries have different relations between the country and the local community or the capital. Most of the time, however, it is a legal form of regulating relationships or things in which they participate or exercise their role. However, there are also agreements as an additional way of regulating them. Regardless of the political consistency or non-conformity of the authorities in our country, we find that cooperation between the city of Ljubljana and the state of Slovenia is not running well. Participation in joint space regulation, taking into account the needs of the state and its functions in the light of the development of the city, in the sense of the capital, one of the European countries is insufficient. Finally, the country does not have a well-defined need for its new role in the light of the new role, as it is not yet well aware of these applications. Are we aware in Slovenia that Ljubljana is becoming the most important window and door for our connections with the world, with the European Union? The city's likeness is a piano, inappropriate transportation, unscheduled facades, a pre-sinking railway station that will scare and spatial barriers. This place could create a modern business, passenger and administrative centre, which would not be ashamed of us. Instead of introducing trams, regulating open-centre roads, parking places, cities for respectable institutions, including Europeans, the city authority deals with unnecessary purchases of banks, co-financing of subversive companies, exhibition projects and the like. If this law helps to regulate the worrying situation in the city and the country, we will be happy. That's what we're going to do. This may not depend so much on this law, but on the wisdom of the rulings in the city and the country. And these are definitely missing, although her antagonists are letting us know that it's even staying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bojan Kontic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u124	Thank you very much. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the adoption of the capital law will be similar to that of other countries, where the regulation and management of capitals or of a city performing similar functions is also governed by a specific law. I'm sure it's important that the relationship between the state and its capital is settled. The capital is usually the administrative, political, cultural, university, diplomatic and scientific research centre of each country. The reasons why Ljubljana was chosen as the capital are reliable historical conditions. Among other things, Ljubljana is located in the very centre of the country and is therefore the shortest route to the capital from all parts of the country. Ljubljana became the cultural and political center of the Slovenians as early as the 20th century after the collapse of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. Soon after, she got her university. A little later, the Academy of Science and Art. In the cultural field, he has had a philosophy for 300 years and an opera for more than 100 years, not to mention theatres in particular. Ljubljana as the capital and at the same time the administrative and political centre of Slovenia is not the only place where local and state functions are intertwined. However, if we are objective, we can see that the main part of the day-to-day intertwines between the country's interests with the local community is happening right in the main city of the country. According to the law's proponents, the law does not want to interfere and does not interfere with the original jurisdiction of the Ljubljana municipality. However, it wishes to regulate the basic obligations of the agreement between the State and the Municipality of Ljubljana, which are necessary to ensure the normal life of citizens and citizens of the capital city, also due to the function of the capital. On the other hand, the local community commits itself to active cooperation in those projects which are important in terms of governance and its interests. Thus, the law obliges the State, on the one hand, to undertake to connect with the local community and at the same time commits the local community to take into account the particular interest of the State, which is linked to the function of the capital. So, the place where all the branches of government are established. The city where the Academy of Science and Arts is established, most diplomatic representations, our largest universities and, finally, the headquarters of the largest cultural and scientific research institutions in the country. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we are convinced that the implementation of various national tasks in the local community, which is at the same time the capital, also brings a number of problems to this local community. Our capital comes to work every day and after other tasks a large number, 100,000 and more people. Many of these, like most of us in this congregation, come to the capital because of the functions they perform at the national level. The capital must create conditions for normal work and life for us at a time when we are its guests. Finally, the capital must also create conditions for spatial, logistics and other supply activities for the state institutions operating in it. All of this must cause the municipality of Ljubljana a lot of problems in solving. We could also help solve these problems by adopting this law, which we are dealing with today. The law will allow the State to intervene in the field of the performance of the agreed tasks if the local community fails to carry out them satisfactorily. At the same time, it will allow the city municipality to demand compensation from the State for damage, for example, in order to ensure that the State does not respect what it has agreed. Here we focus on the issue of regulating and using space, building facilities for the needs of state authorities, environmental protection, urban transport, peaceful transport, ensuring the functioning of public services, public and transport security, protocol issues for the needs of state authorities and the like, which certainly also has an important impact on the development potential of the capital. For all of this, we will support the proposed law in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, because we believe that it is a suitable basis for a further legislative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franci Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Madam President, honourable Members and Members of the Government. The proposal for a law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, which was tabled by fellow Members Anderlič and Potrč, whose co-proposal has also been notified by Mr Podobnik, is based on the fact that our capital, one of the symbols of Slovenian statehood and as such established by the Constitution. We agree with the proposalers that a harmonious and coordinated operation between the city and the country requires and makes sense to regulate this relationship with the law. In particular, in that part relating to the performance of joint or interlinked tasks. It seems important to me that the proposed law does not provide for the privileged position of the capital. We do not provide any special benefits. The purpose of the law is to ensure, inter alia, the conditions necessary for the smooth and effective functioning of state authorities and foreign diplomatic and consular offices in the Republic of Slovenia. The law also imposes upon the municipal congregation the responsibility to take into account the State’s interest in the execution of the tasks. In preparing the law, the proposers also took note of European practice in this area. Indeed, most European countries govern the status of the capital by special law. However, there are different ways of regulating each other. As in all areas where more actors are active, each with its own tasks and responsibilities, we can only expect the best results here if it is ensured that the responsible actors are coordinated. The bill thus provides that the mayor or mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana shall coordinate the activities of the competent authorities in the capital area. I believe it is important to point out that coordinated planning for the development of the capital area is in the development programmes, whether it is State resources programmes, spatial acts or municipal spatial plans, including in the particular interest of the State and not only in the interests of the capital. The draft law on the capital does not guarantee special rights and privileges. It requires him not only to carry out his duties as a city council but also to take on the role of coordinator between the functioning of the public authorities and the authorities of the city municipality. It also foresees its position as the custodian of foreign diplomats and consulates, who will ensure that the conditions for their smooth operation are met. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we support the draft law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. We are convinced that it is appropriate that, at the time when we are discussing the powers of the State and its new position to be taken in the coming entry into the European Union, the relationship between the highest state authorities in the new community, the law also establishes the relationship between the functioning of the competent authorities of the local community and the state authorities in the capital, the symbol of our statehood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Franz Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u128	Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to present to you the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group on the proposal for a law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. According to the text of the proposed law, Slovenian Democrats estimate that this agenda item is of a different content than they could conclude under the title of the law. In our view, the capital is already set out in the constitution. We don't specifically prescribe this law. 10. Article 10 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is clear and says that the capital of Slovenia is Ljubljana. Similarly, the Constitution and other regulations lay down practically everything that this law should regulate. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party agree that certain relations between the country and the capital would be well regulated by law. However, the question arises whether the proposed law regulates this. If I quote Article 1, "Ljubljana is the seat of the National Assembly and the Council of State, the President of the Republic, the Government and other state institutions, unless the law provides otherwise" [[End quote]] . So will anything change if we do not adopt this law? Probably nothing at all. Thus, in this part of our deep conviction, the law means only collecting cheap political points with a binding title and empty content. We note that the applicants are also well aware that everything that appears to be a substantive and positive regulation of this law is in fact governed by other rules. For example, the Law on the Promotion of Regional Development and the Law on the Regulation of Space, as they themselves wrote this in their explanatory memorandum to Article 4. In the case of financial matters, too, the law can be understood more than a reference to the preparation of other acts in the light of the text presented. However, this part of the author admits that this has already been arranged or will be regulated in some other regulations. In this law, however, it is also a provision that can be considered a capital or a dispute for all other congregations if we properly understand article 9 of the bill. Indeed, in the event of a disagreement between the mayor and the executive branch of the State authorities, the Secretary-General of the Government could order himself to carry out certain tasks at the expense of the City of State authorities. By this law, according to our profound belief, it is essentially deeply affected by the area of autonomy of local self-government. This limits the self-government of the capital, which is also a constitutional category. As would be the case with Article 9 for all local communities in that country in which State interest would be exercised. In view of these facts, we can only find that the new elections are clearly approaching and are counting on the collection of political points by proposing - in our view - completely unnecessary legal texts that do not have any actual content. Slovenian Democrats warn that such a political game means, after all, costs. This cost to taxpayers is already due to the possible publication of such a text and not least to the time spent by the National Assembly to overturn the legal text, which does not in fact provide for anything substantial new and, above all, nothing significant. We therefore propose to propose that the law be withdrawn and that this national council allow it to focus on the legal texts that are adequately prepared and deal with the real problems. In voting on the text of the capital law, which is proposed precisely because this law is only an empty shell without content and is more a declaration than a law, we certainly cannot support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u129	The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party will be presented by Mr Peter Levič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u130	Today, we are discussing a proposal for a law that has a long beard, as it were, at home. Everything since 1994 has in one way or another tried to regulate the content that Ljubljana is supposed to give its capital as a special arrangement, while not giving it exclusive status. So, a status that would break through the framework of local self-government's normative arrangements. In particular, the definitions of the municipality as a fundamental self-government local community whose primary task and competence is to deal with local matters of public interest. What important topics we are talking about today is also about the fact that most of the changes in the law on local self-government - and these were a great deal - have tried to define the functions of the capital and arrange relations between the Municipality of Ljubljana and the country. I can tell you that these attempts at happiness failed. I believe that this topic does not fall within the area of local self-government, because it is not a roof law, i.e. the law on local self-government. He deserves a special law. This marriage is ahead of us today. This is particularly important because of the other municipalities, especially urban municipalities, which are not and must not be deprived of anything in the field of local self-government compared to Ljubljana, which is also designated by the Constitution as the capital of Slovenia. Ljubljana can only be the first of the same and nothing else. I believe and welcome the fact that the drafters have followed this objective and have sought an appropriate solution. The law's dictatorship will allow for the execution of tasks and the care of the conditions for the functioning of state authorities and foreign diplomatic missions. At the same time, the proposal is without prejudice to the original jurisdiction of the municipal congregation. It undertakes to cooperate with the country, of course only in certain areas where there is a particular interest. At the same time, the State undertakes to contribute its share in the jointly agreed and planned activities all on the basis of an agreement to be made in the development, programming and appropriate spatial forms and plans. So, the law represents a platform for future work and action. Whether this vessel - if I may put it that way - will be filled with the relevant content depends on the subsequent agreement between the authorities of the municipality and the state. The work of our legislators will end with the adoption of this law - which I hope will come to. As long as the subjects of this law talk to a fig in their pocket, this law will be a dead letter on paper. A few more words on the proposed Article 9 of the Law. In my view, it is a very important decision which allows the provisions of the bill to be applied, where appropriate, to other municipalities. It is true that each country has a capital and that it costs something. However, this provision, paragraph 9, shall apply to us as often as possible. Because it also allows for decentralisation and polycentric development. Two things that we strongly support in the Young Slovenia Party. Therefore, in the view of the Young Slovenia Party, the draft law is in principle appropriate. We will vote in favour of further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u132	Your Honors are here! According to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, the law does not follow the name of the law. The contents do not appear in any way in the law itself. We also assess that this law is contrary to applicable legislation in the area of regionalism, consistent regional development. Unfortunately, the applicants should remind that there are Celje, Maribor, Koper, Ptuj, Nova Gorica, Novo Mesto in addition to the city of Ljubljana. But, no. The proposer has decided to transfer and legalise all institutions, all vital institutions of this country in Ljubljana. According to our assessment, this will only accelerate an even stronger centralist approach in the regulation of matters within our country, while politicians in the pre-election campaign period have us all mouth-to-mouth on decentralisation, on how all parts of Slovenia need to be developed evenly. According to our assessment, the possible adoption of the law will only lead to a further decline between Ljubljana and the rest of our country. Especially if we are looking at the first article of that law. In Ljubljana is the seat of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and other state bodies and institutions of the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government, unless otherwise provided for by law. In Ljubljana, the diplomatic representations of the European Union and the countries with which the Republic of Slovenia has diplomatic relations and a major part of their consular representations. What is left of the rest of Slovenia anyway? Nothing! Is this how you plan to regulate coherent regional development? In this way, does the proposer hope to write into the law that the law relates to coherent regional development? No, gentlemen! This is not the way! The way you've been using the proponents so far when you're talking about coherent regional development and just before the elections, how you need to transfer individual ministries to other cities, because other cities with ministries will also gain something. These are not even supposed to be held up! Slovenia is such a small country that it travels by car from Ljubljana in all directions in one and a half hours. But you act like it's as big as the United States of America. It is as if logistics is in our country, where we have just introduced the so-called e-government on a proposal from the government, because it is supposed to allow for smooth contact between one and the other ends of Slovenia. All of a sudden, you keep your eyes closed when we're in the year we're in. That there are logistical connections, that there is an e-government, you deny the existence of all other cities. But on whose account? Not only at the expense of the welfare of Ljubljana and Ljubljana. They'll know something, too, but it's negative. According to our assessment, or in the long term, you will achieve only higher living costs by adopting this law. The increase in the cost of living in the interest of Ljubljana and Ljubljana is an increase in rent prices in the interest of people living in the capital, parking lots, land, everything. The Ljubljana centre for Ljubljana and Ljubljana will be lost. These are the consequences of this law. That's right. The law will also have a positive quality, but only for a few people, so-called government elites. I'm sure you'll find yourself among them. I'll find you. I'm sorry! For it is evident from the presentations of the groups of Members that the parliamentary groups will support the law. But I'm sorry, and I'll be glad to hear you talk next time about how you feel about coherent regional development, how you feel about areas where there's a lot of unemployment, where there's no institutions where there's no phones. Yeah. This is the situation in Slovenia due to the activities you are doing today and now. I sincerely hope that the law will not be upheld. So much in the name of Ljubljanans and Ljubljanačank as the rest of Slovenia. For you political elite - and I have to be honest - I don't care.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The last position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club presented by Mr Anton Anderlič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u134	In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the law. Because this law needs the country and it needs the city of Ljubljana. Far from regulating any privileges for Ljubljana under this law. Ljubljana is already privileged by this because it is the largest, most economically powerful, because it has the seats of various institutions because it is - whether anyone wants it or not - the administrative centre of Slovenia. After all, Ljubljana symbolizes Slovenia, statehood. It symbolizes what the main cities symbolize throughout all countries. It would be an illusion if we believed that by redistributing some institutions or moving some institutions to other places, we could easily contribute to regionalisation. It is clear that Ljubljana is also handicapped because it is the capital. And because the relationship between the state and this city is not regulated, between the functions that the state must perform and that it carries out in the capital territory and those that must be carried out by the capital or the city as well as by the city municipality as well as by all other municipalities at the level of local self-government. This law lays down the legal basis, establishes some relationship, some relationship, some solution that will give the tasks of both city authorities and also entrust certain authorities in the country with how certain issues should be addressed. It is certain that this law does not give anyone any will, no secretary-general, any authority that could be misused in one way or another. I don't want to give them either. I am sure that the debate in the first reading on this law is not necessary at all. However, there is a need to discuss individual solutions, the things envisaged, and how these should actually be regulated at the level of the main country. It is bad that for 10 years we have failed to elevate or make a constitutional provision that sets Ljubljana as the capital. In practice, this would also mean addressing the problems we are really facing with the Ljubljana people facing the country. Here probably everyone sitting in this hall knows that the country has some things to do, let him be in Ljubljana, let him be in Kamnik, let him be in ZgornjeDuplek. It's just the way things are. They're separated. They're somewhere at the state level. Things are regulated at state level, and wherever this country is, it should already be regulating these things. Some of them are governed by local self-government independently. I am convinced that the law has such components that we can accept them as a suitable basis for further consideration. If any solutions are given, which will be better, more effective, which will define more clearly certain functions and the delimitation of functions between the country and the capital, we will be happy to accept them in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. This is followed by a general debate between Members and Members. First of all, I invite you to the word "magic." Janez Petty Officer. Here you go. [[It's an ad from the hall.]] The general debate of Members and Members of Parliament, where you have been reported as the first debater, is why I invite you to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u136	If you'll excuse me, Madam President, I'd like to give the next seat, and I'll call you later if there's still time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u137	Mr Peca has the word, but he is not among us. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u138	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. It follows from the European Charter of Local Self-Government that the right of citizens to participate in public affairs as a democratic principle is most directly exercised at local level. Since it is in the capital city, in Ljubljana, this interest and this right to strike the most intensely with the power of state and common importance on the state administration structure, it seems to me that the adoption of the proposed law is so much more important. For since this law is established on the basis of an administrative agreement between the two levels of governance, between local and national, and because they are the basis for this development programme, it seems to me that this proposal may be the appropriate basis for regulating the relations between the local and national levels in other municipalities. For this reason, I also have sufficient reasons for Article 9 of the proposed law, which states: "This article gives me the legal basis for regulating the mutual rights and obligations of the State and other municipalities in providing conditions for the work of state authorities and institutions" and so on. This is also an objection to all those who wish to challenge the law on the capital from a different point of view, namely, decentralisation and polycentric development of the state of Slovenia. According to Article 10 of the Constitution, Ljubljana is the capital. The main city of all countries is usually one of the symbols of statehood. Historical and demographic reasons suggest that we must work constantly to strengthen our belongings to the capital. In particular during the globalisation processes, when identification with its own national capital can be wavered for the purpose of identifying and accepting another nationality. This is European citizenship. The state of Slovenia of Ljubljana, as its capital or capital city in the historical memory, is not so deeply anchored because the administrative distribution of the Slovenian ethnic territory to the country has allowed several different cultural centres. History has known that the most efficient or richest cultural development has not always been directly related to Ljubljana. The fact is, in addition to Maribor, Ljubljana has only over 100,000 inhabitants. The next town Kranj has 51,000 inhabitants. Only three cities have more than 40,000 inhabitants. This is the demographic reason that shows a different image, that the population from urban centres often decides to live in a non-urban environment for a variety of reasons. It is not surprising, therefore, that the antagonisms between the capital, the capital, and some other cities - in particular the second largest city - are often the subject of our discussions. But there's nothing special about this, Slovenia. I'm stressing again! It seems to me that this law, however, provides the basis for a systematic agreement on the implementation of public administration tasks at both levels, both at national and local level, and that this can be a model for resolution in other cases. It will not be necessary to point out over time that it has been more than 10 years since the first initiative to adopt the capital law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Mr. Rokavec, you said you wouldn't discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President! Colleagues and colleagues! When we have before us a law on the capital, on the capital, it is necessary to say - in my opinion, in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party - that such a law is necessary. Status relationships need to be regulated by law. The law must regulate the relationship between the state, the duty of the city and so on. However, I am afraid that this law would have been implemented in the form that it was submitted by the proposer or I do not know if it is still a co-proposer. In fact, the red thread of this law is mainly how to provide Ljubljana with privileged access to budgetary resources in the country. It's just the content of the law. As if there were no essential functions. I believe that if a city has privileged access compared to others, it will do a lot of good. The second red thread is that this country is ruled by the Secretary-General of the Government and the Mayor of the city of Ljubljana. Interesting! Everywhere is the dictatorship of almost the mayor of Ljubljana, the mayor of Ljubljana. As if the Ljubljanans were forever condemned to have a mayor. I could agree with a lot of other people here. Here the applicants are initially referred to a tax which is in line with established practice in Europe. I agree. Only then must the city authorities also respect European practice. We know - although the Mayor is here, I welcome her - that in Ljubljana this is respected. The European practice is, if a horrendous corruption affair arises, that the mayor resigns or if his client is involved in a corruption affair such as the SIB Bank, the mayor resigns [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u141	Mr Jerovšek, I ask you to keep our agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u142	I'm holding on, ma'am. You have no right to interrupt me here because that's exactly what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u143	I have the right to warn you, in accordance with Article 75, that you may discuss the issue on the agenda. It's the capital. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u144	I'm quoting the law. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u145	Please, Mr Jerovšek, talk about the agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u146	Look, I wish Ljubljana had authority to respect established European practice. That's my big wish. This should also be the content of the law. This would force the city authorities to respect European practice. Now - as I said - is a red thread of self-financing, self-access to finance. The Secretary-General and the Mayor shall reach an agreement on the implementation of the tasks no later than 15 days before the submission of the draft budget memo of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Yes! Is the budget adopted by Parliament for the whole of Slovenia, or is this decided by the Secretary-General of the Government and the Mayor of Ljubljana in accordance with this law? That's not how it works! I believe that's actually true in practice. Actually, that's been the way it's been done for a while. We know that we read that the Secretary-General was sitting in the office of the then Director of the Insurance Office Triglav Hope Klemenčič and they agreed on how to buy the SIB bank. Before that, he was a trainee with the city's lawyer, Sénica, where they made a plan for the axes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u147	Mr. Jerovšek, for the second time, I remind you that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u148	This is actually already being done. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u149	You're talking about the point that's now on the agenda, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u150	I have to tell you - I said - that I am for the marriage that will give Ljubljana the right status. But based on such a law and such dictions Ljubljana also loses in the long term. Also Ljubljana and all other parts of Slovenia. Then the gentlemen here in Article 1 wrote that everyone is literally, if I quote "all institutions that are governmental". These are so and so in Ljubljana. But yes, "this is also the seat of other state authorities and legislative, executive and judicial institutions, unless the law provides otherwise." That is to say, if an institution would like to put itself elsewhere, say in Maribor, it would be necessary to adopt a special law. I am surprised that, in view of what the applicants wrote and what their objectives were, they did not record that the Management Board of the Maribor Insurance Office and the Management Board of the New Maribor Credit Bank in Ljubljana. I'm surprised they're trying to impound Maribor Insurance right now. But there are many things in this law - as I have said, which I need to stress once again - that are missing. There should be an article here to show how to use Ljubljana's cultural heritage to promote the country. How will the University of Ljubljana and the country become involved in this common interest? The law does not provide for measures to ensure that Ljubljana and Slovenia are indeed a symbol of statehood, of the state of Slovenia, that in the city's central cities, symbols and monuments are placed on the central markets for people who are most deserving of Slovenia becoming an independent state. So that in the future what has happened before the Ljubljana authorities has happened, that the Maistra has placed the demeanor where the rallies are gathered! If she had set up an unworthy monument - Maister should have been a horseman on a mighty horse, not a locust! [[A laugh in the hall.]] And to look in the right direction. Here they were made in a humiliating way to Maistra and to many symbols of Slovenian statehood. It must be written here how Ljubljana and the country will give priority to national symbols over ideological symbols. You see, there are many inconsistencies or tendencies in this law. For this reason, I am in favour of the fact that the proponents are aware of what they have written and that they are proposing drastic amendments to this law themselves, that this is the appropriate basis for what we need in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich? [[You don't want a word.]] Mr. Kangler? [[He's not here.]] Mr. Pavel Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I also salute the mayor! A few words about this marriage, my opinion. Well, the law has to be upheld. With this we will have at least about something that dictates what Ljubljana actually is. In addition to being a city congregation, it is also a capital. However, the law is far from beneficial to Ljubljana, something that has already been said today. It reminds me very much of that Easter egg hanging on a thread hanging from a tree. It's very nice to look from the outside, but it's not inside. So, my criticism of this marriage. In it, you absolutely forgot to mention the city council. These are mayors or mayors and secretaries-general. But these two don't decide what the law says. Money, budget, joint investment or joint projects shall be decided by the State Assembly in the State Budget and the Municipal Council in the City Budget or the Municipal Budget. So, by giving the mayors the authority here, I'm a little bit of adhering to your other functions. In principle, the Law on Local Self - Administration states that it is the decision of the city’s or municipal council. This law is missing in addition to what you have listed, the seats of various state institutions, universities and other institutions, cultural temples, as well as the airport. Ljubljana has its very well-functioning airport, dislocated from Ljubljana. He is in another congregation. This is not described in this law. However, whenever you come from abroad, you are greeted at the Ljubljana airport. So it would be very appropriate to use a few words to the airport as well. That's my opinion. This is not a state airport, it is not an airport of the Republic of Slovenia. They call it "welcome to the airport in Ljubljana". There is also a lack of proposal - see in the protocol of foreign countries or other capitals, wherever the statesmen come to, usually in Europe, honour the country's gift to the unknown hero. Ljubljana doesn't have that yet. He doesn't have a park or a monument or anything to some unknown hero. With us wreaths - I don't know where foreign representatives or presidents put them. Yes, we can go to the Gramony Cave. It's just not what you could say. It's not! So, an unknown hero is a non-ideological matter. Mr. Zląbet, you're a little too keen on ideology. But still! Article 4, both in the draft law and in the rapporteur and in these copies, we have written that the mayor or mayor is hereinafter referred to as the mayor. I fully agree - contrary to my colleague - it is right that there is a woman's sex somewhere. But then let it be consistent and let it be written in the last paragraph of this Article. There's a man here now, not a lady. That's terrible! So, this is where the mayor might be writing, too. Finally, in Article 5, which I cannot agree with, I must say frankly, although I will confirm the bill, I am trying to correct it somehow - the last sentence states: "If the mayor and the Secretary-General do not agree, the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia may propose that, in order to safeguard the special interests of the State, he shall order that the individual task for which the municipal municipality is responsible, as agreed, be carried out directly by the State authority, but at the expense of Ljubljana". I don't agree with that. I can't agree with that. If the Secretary-General wishes to enforce a desire, desire, need or anything, on behalf of the Government, the municipal council and the mayor do not agree to do so at their own expense. Then let it prove, in a fair process or in any way, that the capital is obliged to repay this money. But if he doesn't make it, he's over the deal. So we could cement dialogue or compromise more. Finally, do not give the mayor any competence to do anything, for example, at your own expense or at the expense of the government, because it is the interests of the capital or the inhabitants or anyone already here in Ljubljana. It says here that this money is still to be provided by the city’s congregation or capital. The government, however, is obliged to compensate the city’s congregation for the damage that would have occurred if this had occurred. So it's not about reciprocity! I still think it's necessary in this case. Otherwise, marriage is unlikely to bring any benefits to humans. Unless someone remembers and charges another toll because someone lives in the capital and not just in Ljubljana. I hope that won't be much. I think that would be wrong, too. I will support the law or this by asking for at least reflection on these proposals and on these - in my opinion - shortcomings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Leopold Kremjar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I think we need such a law, or we need a law that regulates relations between the state and the capital. This proposal has a lot to do with what I personally like. I think it's well-written. I think that some things need to be changed, at least in my opinion, complemented by what is possible in the course of further consideration. I would personally lay down this law somewhat more abstractly. This must not be the law governing relations between Ljubljana and the country. This must be the law governing relations between the capital and the country Of course as a result this is the same, you will say and that I come to the opposite. It's not like that. Even if it is and it is true that Ljubljana is and will be the capital. This is also stated in the Constitution. That's right. I don't disagree with that. However, this law should, in my view, be somewhat more abstract and should only regulate those matters in which the relationship between a capital and a state is concerned. It's like we don't know! As if this capital could be something else! Very simple, so that there would be no such perceptions that we hear and that there would be no doubt that Ljubljana is now coming into a different privileged position of higher-a-governance other cities. These provisions should be very clear. I think that it is when it comes to such functions performed by other places, other places, whether permanently or temporarily, that it applies in the same way as it is here. This is set out in Article 9, and it is right. So, I would replace this with the capital and with the authorities of the capital, wherever spoken and mentioned by the municipality or Ljubljana. This would also soften the issue and prepare us to speak truly and remain only at the level of what is the capital - the state. The parishioners, this is more of a marginal matter. But let it be the way we have the mayor, the mayor, everywhere. I don't know how. Just because we stay on the abstract level. I'm not an opponent in the use of mayors. But in this case, the mayor associates that we are talking again only about regulating relations between Ljubljana and the country. I think we should do it differently. Article 1 lists what is already in Ljubljana. I wouldn't tell you what's already in Ljubljana. Although, it has to be admitted, and so it is. I'd list what we think the capital should be. What does this national assembly or what does this country think it should be like in the capital? That's it, that's it, that's it. Of course, there'll be more. But the law should determine what the state thinks the capital, whatever it is, should be. By creating a law that regulates and facilitates relations between the state and the capital. This also affects and is particularly possible in the areas of finance, financing and regulation of material things. But it's not just that, it's a lot more than that. In short, it's only right that we adopt the law. This proposal is a good basis. For my taste, they'd make it a little more abstract. Not because he was incomprehensible, but that it would be very clear that he was talking about everyone and that he was talking and that it should be written that Ljubljana is the capital. I'm not saying it shouldn't be. Let it be, but let it speak and regulate relations between the capital and the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u155	Thank you very much. There's no Lord Christmas. Mr. Cimperman said he didn't want to discuss it. Mr. Tone Partlich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u156	If we look at who has stayed here from the speakers and who has said so far that the Stajerce are primarily interested in the fate of Ljubljana as the capital city. If the mayor's lady is up there, I'd like to say hello from the heart. I even think that if we were talking about the city of Ljubljana and we were saying it's a constitutional category, maybe there's room to sit here, too, I think. Like sometimes some other and interested department sits down. Well, that's irrelevant. I was a teacher 30 years ago. It's been a lot more than 30 years since I've been gone. Well, I'm obviously having some deformities. I remember teaching the kids about the capital. In a way, I am firmly convinced that the capital of one country - as we say - is a symbol of statehood. But also that your attitude towards this country is also manifested through your attitude towards the capital of the country. It was not purely saltless, as Mrs Potata said earlier: "When these borders fall a little in Europe, people may speak more Ljubljana, but they will think something different. Or Bratislava, and they will not mix the Slovenians with the Slovaks." Like I said. I don't know! Ljubljana is therefore the capital of all Slovenians in some way. It's not just the government, the city council, and the mayors. If it is in Ljubljana - for example, I am talking about, so, for provocation - take the tram again, it seems to me that this concerns all Slovenians. Or - to avoid further provocation - a cableway on the Ljubljana Castle, which the villagers would like to see. In such a case, it is not only a matter of Ljubljana, if it is our metropolis. After all, this tower, which is on the old part of the city and says Ljubljana. The question is whether these architects and Ljubljana are the only ones. So I imagine our relationship to the capital is somehow affecting all of us. I understand it wasn't meant by this law. There's no such thing as marriage. The Secretary of State also said that it was actually a regulation governing financial matters and the tasks of each other. Now I see that we, Styrians and rurals, think this should be something more. That this law should actually carry something else inside of it. But for some patriotism, "majesto" -- well, I guess I'm old-fashioned, but old-fashioned -- I just think the capital should be stuck in some way with all the Slovenes. If I tell you this, who lives in Maribor, where there is no more hateful thing than the word Ljubljana, it also tells you that this is one of the things worth thinking about. Because we are all replacing state institutions with Ljubljana, Ljubljana. In fact, we don't separate these things anywhere. I'm always kind of depressed when he spits at our country's capital. If I don't join this in Maribor, it's even a question of my election result. Of course, you have already heard some of these discussions that even in extreme ingenuity, I do not think that I could discuss more pervasively and with insight than some of my colleagues from Maribor have before me. [[And I don't mean the Cretaceous at that.]] . There's something else I'd like to say. It is true that when you have listed such a taxi - I think this is for the second phase where we will be able to put things - it is so dangerous to list what is in Ljubljana and whether it is. The fact that there are several reasons for this inconvenientity through centralism - I do not think it is Ljubljana, nor the city of Ljubljana. It's just another situation, and so are we sitting here. Even more so when we're talking about this symbolism. I think it is wrong to sign an agreement with the Secretary of State, who is, in a way, an extremely administrative entity of the government and the mayor. I think the Prime Minister and the mayor should sign this. Or we would decide if we were serious about our capital. I don't think that's anything. Well, if they think they're gonna be women themselves, I'm just gonna let it go. They've already said so. That's what it looks like. At the same time, he knows that he actually has a beard, as a colleague said. I think it would be necessary to correct it editorially after the discussion and it would be worth writing in some way again. This should be with some consensus not to say, but now it's another law, and we won't be talking about it anymore. Nevertheless, I think it is appropriate that these financial matters also be limited. For, it can happen - and this is a great discord - that sometimes the city has to contribute to some institutions in other cities, which then we also consider to be state - if I say, the library in Maribor, the theatre in Maribor - its percentage. Somewhere else, though, some of the things that happened here in a communal way seemed to us. These things should be clear and clear. There's no such thing as nervousness. The fact that Slovenia is so small does not mean that it can be symbolically the whole of Slovenia. I think this marriage is welcome. I will vote for him, but I will also draw up some amendments, which we will first discuss in the parliamentary group, because one of the authors is very close to sitting. Maybe it would also be worth writing first, because it's spelled "Anderlich" and "Run" is the second, because it's the second letter. Or something like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Kramberger's not here either. Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Unlike the law on the geometric centre that we discussed yesterday, which I object to, I agree that the bill on the capital of Slovenia goes forward with a positive foregleam and that is why I will give my voice. However, I must say that I am counting on some fundamental, perhaps very important adjustments to be made in the further consideration of this law. Above all, it is clear in this part that the concepts of what are the autonomous tasks of the capital or of local self-government, which are so specific that I do not say that other local areas or other cities, Maribor, Postojna and so on, do not cover them. That's not something you can tell from this law. That's what everyone imagines. As a result, there are also visions as to whether it is - I don't know - coordination, investment in the joint infrastructure of the museum type or for protocol objects or events and participation in events that have so-called state-owned content. I think it's important to define positions here. I think that the city council should be actively involved in this, or that it should be defined by law in the follow-up procedure. At the same time. Why does this factor seem so important to me to the definition? What's special? What are those tasks that are important for the development of the capital as defined by the law? These are indeed defined in the national and regional development programme, including spatial acts, etc. But this law will evidently focus on others or on special ones. At the same time, it is important that an agreement or agreement, which is in fact the main reason, say, a major event or a major commitment to which this law goes and which, in a material, then the most important, is made out of this definition. Here I have - personally, I stress personally - some concerns about how this agreement is concluded. Even about the signatories. Above all, I think it is very worth considering how and in what way and if the funds defined in the national budget are transferred to the municipality. And tasks as a result, unless they are performed. And vice versa. In this sense, it seems very important to me and, in fact, the most fatal to define those characteristics of the capital that are here, which we are interpreting in our own way right now. I do not think it is difficult, given that the practices of other cities in different constellations such as Ljubljana do say so. It won't be hard. This will also make the situation - I suppose - clearer for making such arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Skull has the floor. You don't want to? Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič is not here. Mr. Tarchoon! He's not here either. Mr. Onion is not here. Does the proposer want a word? Mr. Run, please. On behalf of the motioner - I apologize - Mr Potch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Thank you very much for the busy debate on the law. I am convinced that many helpful views and suggestions have been well - meaning. I would like to, I hope - not to say too much - on behalf of the applicants in common, irrespective of their order, to express our willingness to make every effort to regulate them as much as possible. It's not gonna be easy. Nor is it because some views were contradictory. Where they were contradictory, whether the marriage was too much or too little. Because he thought it was too much. The opinion that he's not solving anything and another question. In particular, I would like to point out that the applicants really did not want the law to reduce the importance of a balanced regional development of Slovenia. These findings are not substantiated. We did not even want to diminish the importance, role and autonomy of the city’s congregation, or to degrade local governments because the laws were not written in this way. It is not true or believe us, the law was introduced at a time when neither local nor state elections were as close as they are today. A date cannot be a reason for us to be reading just some pre-election propaganda, for then this law should not be introduced. Because he was put in six months after the previous elections were held in the National Assembly. However, I really think that, given the comments made by the government and the suggestions made by you, the law will have to be carefully examined. I'll be very happy if it comes true. I believe there will also be a suggestion that the city council will consider it and give its views on it. I will be happy if we succeed in this way with great collective readiness - and this is how I feel today - to form a law on the capital of our country, as has been emphasized and rightly said, not on Ljubljana, as one of many important, equivalent cities in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a general debate. However, since the time for discussion has not yet run out, I ask: Does he wish and who wishes to discuss the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure? I saw a couple of hands. Are you so kind that there is still some time, if right: Mr Drobnic, Mr Zląbec, Mr Pece, Mr Petan? Thank you very much. So, after five minutes of discussion, the following Members will be given the following order. First, Mr Drobnic, Mr Zląb, Mr Pece and Mr Petan. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll follow your instructions. I will not mention the SIB in this case because it is unworthy. Although I can say that the SIB is actually a born child between the country and the city. But let's just let it go because we have something to talk about at the other end. What else would it be like to note this law? I have already mentioned that the New Slovenia Group said that this law is weak at operational level, that it is very general. However, he is very specific in something in Article 2. The stamp of the city municipality used by the mayor when representing the capital must contain the designation of the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. We are actually attacking the congregation’s sovereignty here from the country. The seal of the city’s congregation is sovereign. That's her decision. We're gonna have to talk about this. Can the state force this past the city's sovereignty? Is this a separate seal representing the capital? Namreč, Slovenia's capital is Ljubljana. That's the job of the state. This is primarily a matter of state, obligation, opportunity. So, the sovereignty of the state. This is an opportunity for the city of Ljubljana. The opportunity for local communities and the city of Ljubljana to gain synergies from this capital. But we must not mix sovereignty with sovereignty. So, on this level. What it is is questionable. It will really be necessary to analyse in detail how to solve this problem. Just from this key role that the state of Slovenia identifies where the capital is, it must also define everything as the capital as a representative of the state of Slovenes and other citizens and nations in the wider world, even across borders as we imagine it. How does the state imagine that? On the other hand, Ljubljana, which controls this area, controls certain functions to harmonise this. So we don't mix what the capital is. The capital of Ljubljana is not a local community. The main place of definition is the State Act. At operational level in Article 5, there is sympathetic correspondence, the mayor and the secretary-general. Perhaps it was because there were not so many conflicts that you used in marriage for one for the mayor of the female sex, and another for the male sex. It is likely that the relationship might be warmer, easier to resolve. Anyway, it would make sense to use something and then that. [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Nova Slovenija is also a woman's sex, but this is not because of the decision - because Slovenia is a woman's sex. However, the Secretary-General may also be Secretary-General. Actually, that'll be all. As I've already said, what matters is not going to save this marriage. He won't solve the lack of will on one side or on the other if he doesn't. Some conflicts have also arisen in other countries. However, I reiterate that the definition of the capital is primarily by the state. On the side of the city of Ljubljana, this is an extremely beautiful and good opportunity, to be promoted as a city and to live. We should keep working in this direction. In the New Slovenia Group of Members and myself, I will endeavour to reach a more operational law and also better solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Yaša Zląbec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I think this is about Ljubljana and about Slovenia. Looking at other countries starting with Rome as the capital of our neighbour Italy, Rome is the farthest hated city in Italy. At the same time, Rome itself feels like an aristocratic city and sees other Italians as Plebeians. France is an even worse case. Four million Aristocratic Paris actually defines even France as a province. It's only Paris that counts. On the other hand, in America, the capital is literally "nowhere". In one desert, a shithole, Washington built up, holding the whole world by the ears and hands. But if you asked the Americans where the heart of America is, it certainly wouldn't be in Washington. St. Petersburg - how much they fought, what name they will give - of course they gave again the stupidest possible variant, but all things happen only in Moscow. Remember Belgrade! Everything was happening in Belgrade, and it was certainly the most hated city in Yugoslavia. It's the fate of the capitals. I must say that the Ljubljana people are significantly less puffed up than the inhabitants of other capitals, because at least 70% of the people of Ljubljana are newcomers - thank God!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor. Here you go. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u166	Mr. Anderlich! Please, if you're dressed and shut up for a second. I have already stated the reasons why we oppose this law in the National Party. I think the reasons are more than weighty. But the decision will be political. It is clear that political parties have decided in a different direction. I would, however, like to appeal to the proposer to invite the Ministry without a department for coherent regional development or regional development to participate in the follow-up phases of the Act and to take into account, at least in the second phase, statistical indicators of the different development of the Slovenian regions. I'd probably say a lot about this law at the time of reviewing these indicators. I would also say that it is wrong for Slovenia to develop only one city. Wrong for Slovenia and wrong for Ljubljana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u167	Thank you very much. As the last one has the word, Mr. Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u168	Thank you for saying so, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! So something like this law is probably necessary. I think the state needs this. That's what they say. Something like this is necessary. Now, if this marriage is the one that solves it, that's the other thing. We could have listened to colleagues who had their opinions on this. In any case, it is necessary to narrow down the view of Ljubljana as a city, as some local community or city community and Ljubljana as the capital city. Otherwise, I am not quite sure whether this proposal has worked for the applicants. But the fact is that we need something like this, and we urgently need it. Every country has a capital. Slovenia must have it, too, and we are probably all united in this regard. However, it is necessary to define those differences that separate the capital from the local community. We've never arranged that. Perhaps it even suited us to have certain antagonisms in Slovenia at the expense of the capital. I don't think it's good, it's bad. This is also necessary because of the fact that we do not have a situation when we feel that every important thing that happens in Slovenia is happening, which is already possible that it must be in Ljubljana. Perhaps in the most graphic way he warned, Comrade Jerovšek, when he said that all he had to do was write down that the NKBM should be in Maribor, then the insurance company and some other holding company. I took it as a good idea that we could separate these things. I agree with those of you who have said that the capital is also a kind of identification. Especially when we join the wider European space. Even now, many things happen to us if you are abroad with people who probably don't know Europe the most, if you say Ljubljana, then many people find it easier to understand that it is not another similar country. The fact is, at the time of independence, most of the Slovenians were probably proud that we had gained our independence and that we now have a second capital. The task is also to define our capital as the capital and to consider it that way. Not that it is now the capital that mixes with the local community, in which it is the capital, as a source of some, such as some kind of lightning rod, which is, of course, fired at every possible end. It's either the capital or the local community. I don't think that's good. If we succeed in preparing this law so far that we can somehow separate it and then sit down, then I think this law has achieved its purpose. Otherwise he won't be. Otherwise it's just like someone said it was - well, I won't use that term. I will support this proposal. In order to achieve this - as I have talked about, and other colleagues have talked about it - with the desire to achieve this universal solution and that this law will also be operational. Now it's just a little comment on what I'm thinking. If we want the law to be universal, then we must write it not for this term of office, either in Ljubljana or in the National Assembly, but in general for a longer time. This means that everything that resembles functions or has functions in mind must be written in double-sex forms. Not in men, not in women. So it has to be universal. That's why I said it had to be in both sexes. Because if it doesn't, we wrote for one term, unless we are - and that's the other thing. I agree with that. If anyone is psychic to see forward, we will have only male mayors or only female mayors or only male secretaries or only female secretaries. That's possible, secretary, for instance. That might be a little funny. But if we want one thing to be universal, it has to be written like that. That's what we use. This practice is also used in other laws. I don't think it can be any different here, either, because this marriage is totally the same as any other marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u169	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide today at 6.05 p.m. I'm breaking this agenda. Representatives of the government thank you very much. I am also pleased that our former fellow Member and now the mayor of the capital city of Ljubljana, Mrs Danica Simšič, was here to discuss this point between us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u170	Your Honor! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. First, we go to the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda - questions of Members and Members. Ambassador Andrej Bajuk proposed a decision that reads: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Anton Ropa asked Dr. Andre Bajuk about the issue of the craftsmen's fund." We will vote on this proposal for a decision. Explanation of voice. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Madam President. The ancient Romans knew the principle that became the foundation of the rule of law. It is "dura lex set lex", a hard figure, but a figure. Respect for the law, consistent respect for the law is the foundation of the rule of law. The question I have raised to the Prime Minister today was based on a lack of respect for the law. That is, in the last four years and on the basis of his reply, in which he did not actually admit that we have a duty to respect the law at all. As I have already mentioned in my explanation, when I have made this request, I believe that any executive authority has no right to some of the things that are enshrined in the law, to debate and to carry it out. If he has problems with the law, he has the opportunity to come to the National Assembly and propose changes, as we see at last every day. Well, it's not just one case. These things appear every day - consistent non-compliance by the government itself. So, I will vote in favour of this debate. I think it is high time for the National Assembly to face this reality, that our own executive authority does not respect the laws that are written in this house, that it endangers and actually disregards the foundations of the rule of law and that something must be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that. I will absolutely support this proposal for a decision. Look, to Dr. Bajuk's weighty question, what about the fund of 20,000 Slovenian craftsmen, which the government owes them about 4 billion Slovenian tolars, the Prime Minister in Parliament answers: "You state some of the signs that of course do not hold, nor is it true that we have not fulfilled the promise, vice versa." So he's answering as if they've solved this case, as if this matter is not worth any more. Then he says, "I think it's the right way to talk, not to politicize here, in the National Assembly, and try to insinuate the goal of a temporary solution." See, the President of the Slovenian Government answers such a question and says it is politicisation. He's responding to some sort of insinuation. I think that it is still necessary to have a proper discussion and to get to know all the problems in the National Assembly and to know why, within two, three years, an appropriate solution cannot be reached, why this craft fund is somehow not being returned to those who have created it. I'll back this decision. I suggest you do the same for others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. I will support the proposal for the following reasons. Indeed, there is an increasing practice of violating the rules of procedure in the National Assembly as well as the government itself. Ministers, individuals are increasingly violating and failing to comply with laws. I think this is a very dangerous situation. It's a very dangerous situation. When it comes to smaller marriages, smaller matters in marriage, it's already bad. But if it is financial, it is real laws that deeply affect the financial state of the country - or what a country is other than the population or groups of people - then these are difficult matters. Ignoring this question means instructing citizens not to respect tax legislation, not to respect income requirements, cheat, for this is what the government itself does. That's what the Prime Minister does. I think that without this ethical culture of this relationship, in fact to legislation, there is no more country. Some of this should show this national assembly by calling and discussing these matters and by requiring a competent response.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u177	The government had four years to implement the legal provision. Then comes the prime minister, or Prime Minister, and says it's politicisation if we ask him why he didn't do it. He's citing some other obstacles. That's scandalous! That is why it is a well-founded initiative to discuss the response. In order to give an answer to what was happening, however, why there was no enforcement of the legal provision. Far from being politicized. But non-execution and reference, that's politicization. That's unacceptable! This is also an unacceptable attitude towards the National Assembly. Not just the law. As you had the opportunity to see yesterday or Monday, three quarters of ministers do not attend the National Assembly to answer the question, even though they are asked in advance or given questions. Of course, they have a lot of responsibilities from college classes, and I don't know what else. They can't come to the National Assembly. This is also the range between words and actions. The government promises. The Prime Minister or Prime Minister, the former, promised that this would be resolved in a timely manner. I recall well the statement regarding the crafts fund that this is not a problem at all and that it is just a matter of - I don't know - a few weeks. It's been over a year since then. That was why the question raised by Mr Bayuk, a fellow Member of Parliament, was quite fitting. We haven't got any answers yet. The answer is not to enforce the law. I will therefore support this proposal for a debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. Mr. Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Madam President. I myself have asked, firstly, the question of the question of the implementation of this law, or the problem of the pension fund of craftsmen. If I didn't know this was the way to solve the problem. If he were not alone when the Prime Minister, then the Minister of Finance, sat with the craftsmen and also Minister Dimovski, and when they took action to solve this problem, which is multi-layered, is not so simple, then today would support this proposal, which was put forward by Comrade Bayuk. But I do know that the matter is being resolved. He's right before the rescue. As the Prime Minister has said here, he has already called those responsible from this fund and will talk and resolve accordingly. That is why I will not support this proposal today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u180	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. We can move to a vote on the draft decision as previously presented. We're voting! Have you been able to vote?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u181	Excuse me, Madam President. I propose to re-vote, because Majda failed to vote because the voting apparatus did not work. It wasn't until after the time was right.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda, just an explanation. I'm sure your device is working. It didn't work because of your negligence. Mine didn't work either because of my negligence because I had a duplicate card inserted. This is our risk that we have not properly prepared ourselves for the vote. According to the Rules of Procedure, the technical error of the voting apparatus. Sometimes we have to be more careful. So 64 Members and Members were present. 24 votes against 39. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the proposed decision has not been adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on higher education, the reduced procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, first of all we will vote on the two amendments to Article 5. Under one on the amendment of the government to the amendment of the four coalition groups and under two on the amendment of the four parliamentary groups. First of all, the amendment of the government to the amendment of the parliamentary groups. We're voting! 71 Members and Members are present. It's 49 votes against 18. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the amendment of the government to the amendment of the parliamentary groups has been adopted. We are now voting on the amendment of the parliamentary groups. We're voting! There are 70 of us present, 51 votes against 9. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. We are now moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 8 which is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. First Mr Cuckoo's explanation of vote, then Mr Tanko. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. I have tabled an amendment to introduce a general subsidy instead of this subsidy on the scale envisaged for a simple reason. In the State budget in three ministries, sufficient resources are available to introduce a general subsidy for all students instead of the proposal mentioned here. In fact, I think it is unacceptable that the proposal proposed by the Ministry makes it impossible for as many as 54% of students to obtain a higher subsidy, even though adequate funding is available. For 38% of beneficiaries, this does not mean any change. By 16%, even a substantial reduction in existing transport subsidies. It is clear that transport is a key item for those who come from rural or remote areas. It is this proposal of the Ministry that is actually the most affected. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the criteria listed as exclusive social criteria appear several times in a row to be summed up. This is mainly the result of a rather distorted image of these social benefits and the acquisition of social ratings. At the same time, I would point out that the Ministry introduces exceptions in view of the way in which the law is written with the rule of law and additionally puts all beneficiaries in an unequal position.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u184	Thank you very much. We heard an explanation for the voice. We can therefore move on to the vote on the amendment to Article 8. We're voting! There are 69 of us in attendance. The vote was 26 to 38. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Article 5 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? No, no, no. I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, the National Assembly shall inform us that the legislature and the Government have not notified us that the law has not been harmonised due to the amendments adopted. That's why we can move on to a decision on the law. We're voting! There are 70 Members and Members present. It's 49 votes against 14. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda - the first reading of the proposal of the Law on Triglav National Park. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law on the Triglav National Park - the first hearing is suitable for further consideration. Explanations to the vote: Mr Tanko, Mr Sok, Mr Tsukati. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u185	Thank you for your word. I'd explain my voice. I must say, the legal and legal service gave us an incomplete and incorrect warning, stating in explanation that the map had been submitted. While Article 31 of the Act states in previous provisions that the Geodetic Authority would not do so until six months after the adoption of the law. That's what it's called for to make the map on the plot exactly. I must also say that there is a misleading opinion of the legislative and legal service where the lady stated that there is no procedure for this case. The procedure is determined because it speaks of the founder of the park. This one is responsible for carrying out all activities in this area. The founder shall inform the public of the draft act establishing a restricted area before the adoption of the act. He has to publish it in a public press, he has to get to know the public. The public consultation shall be carried out by means of a public hearing and a public presentation of the reasons and so on. Public presentation is done in local environments. This isn't about any legal void. I am sad to see that this legal void has emerged in this legislative and legal service. And in this particular case, which is eccentric, in which the procedure is eloquently clear. That is why I will vote against this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u187	Thank you very much. As I said in the presentation of New Slovenia's position, this proposal is bad. I could use other terms. I could just say it sucks and it would mean catastrophic solutions to Triglav National Park. To this proposal, the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, the Council for Environmental Protection at the Slovenian Academy, the Mountain Union of Slovenia, the Initiative Committee for the Conservation of the Triglav National Park, the Union of Environmental Movements of Slovenia took a negative position. Then we received or Mr Pahor received in our name a signed petition from all those who oppose it. In the end, the people in the referendum, with more than 80% opposed to rejecting the intention of the applicants in this law to be expelled from the Triglav National Park. With everything I have heard here today and what I can read in the media and what I can hear, I must say that a mentally healthy person is having difficulty understanding what the background of this law is and what it will bring to the proponents who advocate such solutions. The bill in our parliamentary group will by no means be supported and we will be in phase two - since most will accept it here, it is already well known - we will prepare amendments. However, if the amendments are not accepted, we will consider some other means to prevent this disaster for Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. Mr. Cuckoo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u189	Thank you for your word. Well, it is certainly necessary to change the spatial plans - and this is something like this - to inform the public, to listen to the interested or those affected by the change. I think that this is not only specified in the laws, but it is also a form of democratic policy. I think the professional and civil spheres have been briefed. We got the answers. Everybody's refusing it. He showed his referendum, too. I think that it is wrong to go into a follow-up procedure with a text that is really contrary to the will of the population, and then with the amendments we will fully correct the law. Yeah. It would be a little easier to write another law, another text that would take these opinions into account. This is a true - I would say - very negative relationship, which can then end. It's no wonder if it ends up at the referendum again. And once again, it'll be obvious: "600 million has been wasted..." Now count on that we also need this 600 million so it won't be too late. I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. Dr. Brace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u191	So, I'm going to vote against it because I think that the procedure was conducted in contravention of the law. The applicant did not comply with the rules adopted by this National Assembly. I am aware that the 1981 law is probably obsolete and needs to be amended or rewritten. However, I cannot agree with the way this has been done. Public debates were held without experts present. The people who came to these public debates had the opportunity to listen only to one side, not to the profession. However, the political interest and profession often go in their own direction. In addition, it is clear who is the founder of the Triglav National Park. It's a national council. So important is that we need some active legitimacy, not just to be first-signed on a regulation. In my debate today, I have extensively explained why, so where are these systemic errors, non-compliance with the rules. Besides, I can't go. That's why, as I say, I won't support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Madam President. When I listened to the debate today, I finally came to believe that I must vote against it, based on this kind teaching, which we have already seen from Minister Kopač, when he explained to us that it was those doubts that we had in both the sent groups, both the New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party, that we were simply unnecessary. It's already written in other laws. It is precisely Minister Kopač who is explaining this to us, a representative of this government, who at the same time refers to differences in certain laws in order to finally make his declaration. For example, once again I will tell you an old story about the balance sheet required by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It does not require a law on public finances, but it is required by the law on accounting. And what do I hear from the representatives of our government? Yeah, well, what's wrong with you, because the Finance Act doesn't require that. So, such games from representatives of our government, whom we already have enough, we cannot vote crediblely for such a law. This mirage that we've been alerting us to will take revenge on us later. We will vote against it. I am already telling you, if this law is to be adopted - obviously, because this has already been clear in all these debates - if the second reading does not respect everything we have warned about, what the professional public has warned about and what common sense requires, prepare yourself. I will commit myself to having a re-referendum and we will destroy this marriage because it is not worth coming into our legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mag. A trifle, an explanation of the voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u195	Again, it is suggested that you are going against the interests of the highest number of citizens, that you are going against the interests of preserving the cultural heritage of Slovenia, and that you are particularly following the selfish economic interests of a narrow group of people. That's not good. What Mr Bajuk said, if you continue to do so in other readings, then it will certainly be necessary to make corrections. The will is to be respected. Procedures must be respected, not selfish, narrow interests. In this case, they showed up. They showed up and found out. I will therefore vote against this text of the law and against this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u196	Thank you very much. And an explanation for Mr. Rupar's voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I will vote against this law, too. Because the background smells, it literally smells. This route is not so much about the destruction of a 500 - year - old village or the original settlement of Bohinj. This is because - as some media have determined - the Triglav National Park is not at the forefront. From today's performances we have found that it does not matter, Kobarid, Tolmin, Bovec, Trenta and that the purpose of this law is Bohinj. I summarize just a few thoughts from a journalist, Dr. Janez Markes, who says: "The Finance Journal has revealed the structure of capital. He proved parallels between BVA, Mebles and Alpinum, which means that there is a link between the indignant Zbilski Gaj and the new investors in Bohinj. They're testifying to the connection between Andre Rezar and Victory Pacnik. After all the investment movements, the LDS connections, even at the top of the government, you must not be left with a strong impression of severe political and financial corruption, and it would not be strange to hear this capital in the name of the Udbo-mafija." All I'm saying is, is it true from what they're saying that Zbilski Gaj went to get the mushrooms just to get the money from the buyers of the houses to get enough money to build hotels in Bohinj? Is it, then, true what they say that Mr Vukko will receive 100,000 euros for the prize? Is that true? That's why I'm voting against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Pukšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u199	Thank you, Madam Vice President. If it's Aha, it can. [[...]] Why am I going to vote against this bill? The reason is this. There were some laws that were passed in the National Assembly. Those laws were passed that the opposition thought were bad. The ruling coalition has adopted such laws by means of the power to vote. And all four such laws that were passed later proved to be unacceptable between Slovenians and Slovenians. Slovenians and Slovenians have warned of this all the time. We have also transferred this through the members of the opposition to the National Assembly. I would expect that after the four recent referendums and all of them have been carried out, and all the laws that have been adopted, the referendums would fall to the realization that the ruling coalition should sometimes be heard. Not the opposition, but the citizens and citizens of this country. It will happen again that there will be unloved cases involving the holding of a referendum. Then, on the other hand, who adopts such legislation, there will be a clear statement about spending money. In this case, it would be good if, at least a year before the elections, the ruling coalition was aware and did not support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u200	Thank you very much. We have heard explanations of vote, so we are moving to a vote on the proposal for a decision on the appropriateness of the law for further consideration. We're voting! There are 67 Members and Members present. 44 votes to 21. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - the first reading of the bill on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, the first hearing, is suitable for further consideration." Can we make a decision? Voice explanation, Mr. Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u201	Thank you for your word! Dear Members and Members! There is no easy decision before us in such a law as we decide today - the capital. The constitution states that our capital is Ljubljana. It is my personal opinion that we also adopt the law, as the proponents have suggested, that we have the main place in the law in the articles as defined. But today I will support the first reading. Today - once again - I will support this law's first reading conditionally. Indeed, my view is that the applicant will have to amend certain provisions of the law, in particular Article 1. I am personally disturbed by: "in Ljubljana is the seat of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia" - this abstains - "and other state bodies and institutions of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities, unless the law provides otherwise". I think this is contrary to the government law. No other body can move from the capital if we adopt this law or this dictatorship in Article 1. It will be necessary to adopt a law in which we will have to write this down. That is why, today, I will support this proposal of the law conditionally. At the same time, I appeal to the proposer to find an appropriate solution to this dictatorship, because it is only for bodies such as the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government, the legislative body, that is what the National Assembly calls and I delete the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-01-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u202	Thank you very much. We can therefore move to a vote on the proposal for a decision on the appropriateness of the law for further consideration. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. It's 52 votes against 5. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Therefore, the law will be allocated to the homework body. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 29th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you all so much and good night.
