ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, good morning, good morning! I begin the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they have been detained and cannot attend today's meeting with the following Members and Members: Anton Anderlič for the start of the meeting, Jože Ašič from 13.00 p.m. on, Dr. Jožef Bernik from 13.00 p.m. on, Miha Brejc from 16.00 p.m. on, Franz Čebulj, Andrej Fabjan, Ljubo Germič, Feri Horvat, Roman Jakič, Janez Janša, Branko Kelemina from 13.00 p.m. on, Janez Kramberger, Maximilian Lavrinc, Aloz Peterle, Cyril Pucko, Valentin Pohorec for the start of the session, Matjaž Švagan for the start of the session, Jože Tanko, Davorin Terčon, Janko Weber, Cveta Zalokar Orazem and Majda Zupan. We're moving on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY - FIRST DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE TRAINER ON PARLAMENTAL INVESTIGATION. The draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry were submitted to the Parliamentary Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Rules of Procedure for consideration. With regard to these amendments and additions to that Rules of Procedure, the 11 members' group shall be the first-signed mags. Andrej Visiak requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. As the official presentations are not announced, the views of the groups are presented. First of all, he's got the word "Victory Jelinčič".
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The amendment of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation is in fact necessary, as there were certain inconsistencies in the parliamentary investigation, which also largely held back the normal work of the investigative commissions. The texts of the articles, which are ready for change, I do not think there is any point in discussing each one individually, the fact is that these changes are absolutely necessary. Lately, we have seen the problem of investigative commissions in the event of Friday's investigation, when things don't move from a dead spot. Some blame for not moving the matter is certainly borne by the current Rules of Procedure, which, in certain cases, does not allow for more detailed, deeper and more thorough investigations into the subject under consideration on a particular commission of inquiry. I therefore judge, and also on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, that amendments are justified, that a supplement is necessary, and we support this in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry must certainly be implemented. The proposal before us is not necessarily the best, and I would like to say something about it on behalf of the Group of Members. The fact is that this proposal is based on experience in the work of parliamentary investigative commissions, where work has shown certain shortcomings that need to be addressed and further defined in the Rules of Procedure. We must be aware that the Commission of Inquiry, as some form of parliamentary control, is also the executive branch; on the other hand, it is also a strong institution of opposition. Sometimes you could say that this could also be the last institution of opposition against the arrogance of the ruling majority. At the same time, it must also be acknowledged that it is not necessary that this is just an institution of opposition and that only the opposition is interested in solving certain problems. At least it shouldn't be like that. The fact is that everyone should be interested in clarifying a particular situation and also eliminating certain anomalies or at least making them public. In doing so, it should be noted that this is a classic approach to clarifying a particular problem, a certain excess, a certain irregularity, a certain abnormal state, if you want to be misinterpreted. Let me just remind you that so far we have had investigative commissions, I will only mention the most famous, in the case of Elan, Vic-Holmec, the recent attack on journalist Mir Petk, the irregularities in Eles' operation. This is said to be so unscrupulous that it is or should be investigated. Of course, then, what is the power of such an investigative commission, and then there is another question. But it's good for you. If it's willful, there's a lot to figure out. If I only mention the last thing that would have been necessary to investigate, these are the events around the SIB bank. But maybe some other time. It is a fact that certain difficulties have been identified in the work of these commissions, and therefore only work has been made difficult and these irregularities have been identified, which have led to the appointment of the Commissions at all. The area of replacement of the quorum and the size of the commission of inquiry is very attractive. The status of alternate members, where information is also dealt with, is very important. There is also a whole lot of problems and problems in the previous term, and there is nothing better in the present. The fact is that changes are necessary and, on the other hand, something needs to be recognised. With only a change, it is said that there will be additions to the Rules of Procedure, that we will get a slightly different form in this Rules of Procedure, that it will be otherwise written down, and that we will not resolve matters with this. Of course, it is the conduct of the members of these investigative commissions, Members of Parliament, sent groups and aware of this also to a certain relationship - one who is interested and one who is not interested. Without this being clarified, even a completely new rules of procedure will bring nothing and problems will be possible in some other form. That's what you're saying, it's about being willing to clear up some things. The proposal before us is going in the direction that some things will improve. This must be acknowledged, and we also recognise this in the Social Democratic Party. He solves certain problems that have arisen. However, this raises a whole bunch of new questions, which we also have to take in a slightly broader context. The fact is, there can be a serious problem in relation to the status and situation of Members with regard to access to information. There is also a certain problem that can only be demonstrated with regard to the proposal. In view of the new Rules of Procedure, the proposal for this case will be a very specific matter, which will also need to be resolved and disclosed. Maybe I wouldn't even go into it myself. My fellow Members will tell you more about this. The fact is that we have not even decided at this point whether we will support the issue of whether or not it goes into further proceedings. The questions are so serious and so important that the decision to support this will not come to pass. What problems, as I have said, will be further discussed by my fellow Members. However, the fact is that changes are necessary, but change can do more harm than benefits and there is a need to deal well with any possible consequences of new changes, which, in a given context, can pass on such a change. We will, of course, decide after a thorough examination and when we hear the opinion of the other parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic of the United List has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It will soon take three years to postpone the amendment and to complete the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation. This points to the fact that, at a certain point, the question of an alternate Member in the Commissions of Inquiry was unclear and more thorough consideration was needed. At the same time, today's consideration of the amendment proposal also means that the Commission of Inquiry is not likely to have dealt with the problems of non-conclusion and substitution in this mandate. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we generally agree with the proposed amendments on the ground that the rules of procedure clearly define the alternate members of the Commissions of Inquiry and, of course, their role in avoiding different interpretations. The absent Member, a member of the Board of Inquiry, will therefore only be able to replace the Deputy, with all the rights and duties of the member. The amendment also regulates the identification and, of course, the conclusion of the Commission. The proposed revision of the Rules of Procedure is therefore narrowly focused on the already mentioned elimination of ambiguity. Such a proposal, to the extent proposed, will be supported by the United Nations Group of Socialists. Of course, our support also depends on today's debate, which will show the wishes of parliamentary groups and individuals with regard to amendments to the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Janez Drobnič, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me to present the opinion of the New Slovenia Group on amendments to the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry. We support the amendments to the Rules of Procedure relating to this part of the functioning of the National Assembly, i.e. the Commission of Inquiry, although the current situation is such that we are not dealing with any problem on the basis of this deficiency, the systemic flaw which is now an integral part of these provisions. However, we need to be aware that something else can happen, given the particular case that might occur, or something similar. It is therefore our obligation to ensure such a composition and mode of action so that it can ensure the smooth work of the investigative commissions. The proposal therefore amends the Commission's composition by introducing alternate members and thus replacing them in the absence, as well as the position of individual new systemised positions. This is, of course, an appropriate response to solving the problem of absence at the meeting if it appeared. The solutions submitted are a good basis for complementing and improving the composition and system of investigative commissions. We therefore support the law in principle and do not object to further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Peter Levich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The proposal for amendments to the act we are discussing today has been written and tabled a long time ago. It is precisely this distance that gives us an opportunity and an excuse to reconsider whether such a change in the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation is necessary. Therefore, whether the Commission of Inquiry is such a "sui generis" body that it is not possible to make an episodeal substitute for a Member, so that this is arranged differently from that of the other committees and commissions. Such a change could otherwise be agreed upon, but if substitution were the cause of, however, the work of the Commissions of Inquiry was all too often hampered. But it's not like that. The reasons are different, and this is not today's topic, even though the debate on this would still make sense. The committees and commissions are the working bodies of the National Assembly and so on the property of each Member, so let us not work more equally among the same. If there is practice in the National Assembly to allow for substitution in other working bodies, there is no need for the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia to be an exception to the investigation committee. The meetings of the Commissions of Inquiry are public, as provided for in Rule 15 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation; once again, there is no reason for hiding rooms in the sense of prohibiting the replacement of absent members of the Commission, since we are Members of Parliament in relation to secret meetings of the Commissions of Inquiry, all Members responsible for protecting the confidentiality of confidential data. The second paragraph of Article 104 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is clear on this point. It couldn't have been any more. On other working bodies too, we encounter confidential material, and there is no issue of substitution. Since it seems that the proposal for amendments to the Act can also be understood as an attempt to obstruct the work of the parliamentary investigation, which takes place in terms of the supervisory function and means at the same time some kind of inequality of Members, we oppose and vote against the proposal by the Members of the Young Slovenia Party. That's against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Podobnik of the Slovenian People's Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Allow me to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. As my colleague Levič has already said, the proposal for a first amendment of the law, namely the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, was created three years ago within the framework of the then Rules of Procedure Commission. In principle, we support these changes in the parliamentary group. But his performance says that, above all, those parliamentary groups that are less numerous are in an unequal position. Attention will have to be paid here in the follow-up procedure to this issue. We looked at the transcript of the debate on the 1999 Rules of Procedure Commission. First we looked at chronology. It was a matter of correspondence between the then President of the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission, Maximilian Lavrinci, and the President of the Rules of Procedure Commission, Dr. Ribičič. For a number of months, they kept writing to each other, and in the end, the Rules of Procedure Commission decided that it was necessary to do something about the question of the conclusion of the work of parliamentary investigative commissions. They decided because it was not a mandatory explanation that they were going to change. First, it was even proposed that the lower limit should be 3 Members, then they went to 5 and again to 3 and finally adopted a decision by 5 Members. These are, in direct terms, only cosmetic corrections and successful work in the parliamentary investigative committee are not crucial. As an expert in this field wrote in the interpretation of the Constitution, Mag. The Mozetič who says that we can define the next definition of the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation from the constitutional and legal provisions. Parliamentary investigation is one of the supervisory control instruments of the National Assembly, which, for an individual case, is designated by the National Assembly and carried out solely by an investigative committee, which has the same powers as the judicial authority on matters of inquiry and study, which is also a citation from the Constitution. In our view, the opportunity to amend the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation is also an opportunity to assess how the Constitutional Institute of Parliamentary Investigation works. First of all, if I am critical of this institution and implementation, this does not mean that I am critical of the presidents of past mandates and current or of the members of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, not least that I am now a member of one, but that my conclusion is that the institution of parliamentary inquiry is without teeth, that it simply does not achieve the purpose given to it by the founder, as he has written it down in the Constitution. It is only for the first time that we have amended the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation after ten years. I think it would be responsible for us to look at some other provisions, not just conclusions. This is not a problem at all in this mandate. But there's trouble somewhere else. The first problem is, as a member of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, I will try to bring some amendments into this amendment, which will make sense in the context of these amendments, otherwise I cannot propose them in accordance with the rules of procedure. I firmly believe that if the work of the parliamentary commission of inquiry lasts for more than a year, this will be divorced. The establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry is an old rule: "Set up a commission and the matter falls asleep." The experience of the developed parliamentary countries is that the parliamentary commission of inquiry must be very up-to-date, having a lot of meetings, because its greatest power is under terrible pressure on those bodies which must act on their authority. Therefore, the parliamentary commission of inquiry must have a very strong professional support. In the debate three years ago, in the transcript, there was even a proposal to write down some changes in the rules of procedure in order to strengthen the professional support of parliamentary investigative commissions. In my view, it would be the duty of both the services of the National Assembly and the leadership of the National Assembly and, of course, of the Presidents of Parliament's Investigative Commissions to form a very strong professional team as soon as the parliamentary investigative committee is established. The expert team must count at least as many members as the members of the parliamentary commission of inquiry that the parliamentary commission of inquiry will act in a genuine way in order not to suspect that it has abused its powers in any way in its work or that there will be no constitutional complaints, complaints to the Supreme Court and as far as has been the case in the past. The second area is the field of public work. I am a member of the parliamentary commission of inquiry in the case of Friday, which, in my humble opinion, works successfully. We practically acted as one member. The fact that we are from different parliamentary groups has not affected our decisions at all. But because of the nature of this parliamentary commission of inquiry, we were almost exclusively working in closed sessions. When I was recently in Australia, an Australian parliamentarian told me when I asked him how parliamentary investigative commissions worked, he said that not one meeting had been closed to the public in the last 45 years. A closed meeting for the public of the parliamentary commission is a contradiction to itself. If you go to the American Congressional Senate, the power is in the public eye. Parliament is a public institution. I propose that together we find a way to enable the parliamentary commission of inquiry to work practically at public meetings. The third topic is membership, burden of Members and fellow Members of Parliament. The 90 members' group is so burdened by other topics that it is very difficult to be a member of the parliamentary commission of inquiry from this time point of view and also from the professional side. Therefore, the solutions proposed here can go in the right direction. I believe, however, that we will have to find a solution for parliamentary groups that are less numerous. If we write this as a commitment, we will have as many as three members, half of whom will be in one and half of whom will be in the other. However, if there are three investigative commissions, there will have to be two members on two parliamentary investigative commissions. This is a huge burden for Members. I will therefore, as a member of the procedure, if today's procedure is supported to continue, propose some amendments that will try to resolve some of the issues I have mentioned here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u13	Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr Franz Pukšič has the word - which he does not have. Mr. Franci Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Briefly on the proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the parliamentary inquiry. I would like to paralyze or have a few comments, in particular, on the solutions to the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. The amendments to the Rules of Procedure refer mainly to the fact that each member of the parliamentary committee of inquiry should have a deputy. From what the leader of the parliamentary group has said before me, it is clear that it would make more sense to leave flexibility in the work of the parliamentary investigative commission, such as in the work of other working bodies of this Parliament: the possibility of replacing Members, the automatic possibility of substitution. This would also further encourage a way of different parts of the investigation, so to speak, of the way in which the work of parliamentary investigative commissions is carried out. Here we must all acknowledge that, both one and the other investigative commissions that we have had so far have been ineffective; except for one that has completed its work in the previous term, all the others have actually worked throughout the mandate and have not come to an end. I believe that a deadline should also be set for the completion of a specific task. At that time, the Commission of Inquiry was also expected to significantly accelerate the pace of its work. If all matters are divorced for three, four years, then you simply lose the current, and above all the content, the red thread, which you need to act on effectively and quickly. The parliamentary commission of inquiry or investigation shall, in particular, determine the responsibility of public individuals to exceed their powers, it shall be said, establish political responsibility. If this political responsibility is established in three, four years, it makes no sense. Therefore, in addition to these cosmetic corrections, which I believe are not appropriate, more flexible solutions should be developed in the next phase. This is said to be solutions to the functioning of other working bodies of Parliament, and above all to find the possibility that a parliamentary inquiry will be significantly more effective for us. So much for a little while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, he's not here. Mr. Franz Kangler, he's not here. Mr. Branko Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! The proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Investigative Commission is indeed a very important document. Perhaps some have not taken it so seriously at first, but even today, from this debate that has begun, it shows that it is serious matter and that we must take it extremely seriously. I am very impressed that others think as much as themselves, Mr Podobnik, Mr Rokavec and others. In fact, with this amendment to the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, we need to provide the Commissions of Inquiry with significantly greater powers if we are to see our Commissions of Inquiry achieve the desired results in the shortest possible time, which is extremely important. What is now emerging on the issue of the functioning of parliamentary investigative commissions? Who, too, that our commissions, which should have been judged by my assessment, and this was also understood by some Members today, should even take precedence over all the other committees and commissions. But now it is happening that I cannot, as President of the Commission of Inquiry, call the committees in the first two weeks, at least by way of my professional assistance, explain to me that I have to make a reservation at the latest, when the deadlines are free, for my investigative commission. I don't think that's right. If we want to speed up the work of the parliamentary commissions, which, of course, should be a priority in front of everyone else, we need to have the right to call the presidents of the meeting on a weekly basis, if twice is necessary. This is necessary and this is necessary, if not by this Rules of Procedure, and then, by amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should be properly regulated. That's the first one. As far as the openness of the work of the investigative commissions is concerned, I fully agree that we must also correct these provisions so that the parliamentary commissions work as little as possible in closed sessions. This is a fact, and I hope that in this direction we will also change the rules of procedure. The only thing that bothers me, my fellow Members, is that so far the Commission of Inquiry has not been effective and that, in the general Slovenian public, as well as among the Members themselves and everywhere, there is an opinion that parliamentary investigative committees are not necessary. That's not true. No, that's not true, and ten more times I'm gonna say it's not true. Look at the old records of the investigative commissions, and you'll find that a lot of things have been found, even proven, and so on, but most of them have decided otherwise, or they haven't even taken things, or they've dragged things so far that they haven't even been accepted at the national assembly. Not to mention that the investigative commissions were not effective. Don't tie yourself to efficiency options, because it just doesn't hold. And I would ask you to try to overcome these things and let us think positively - they are effective, but we must have a political interest, the will to get things resolved as soon as possible and that the Commission will achieve the purpose for which it was established. But there's another problem. Also, by proposing that each member should have a replacement member, I do not think it is a good solution. I stand by myself, and I am grateful that you think so, too, that there would be a general rule here that any parliamentary group can, because it is in the interest of Members' groups first of all to act on the parliamentary committee, namely the interest of the parliamentary groups, that they have their own representative there, regardless of the small or large group of Members, and that they could be a substitute member of anyone, but not only those who would be appointed by the national assembly. By the way, what does that mean? It is important to achieve exactly what some have already warned that the work of the Parliamentary Commission could somehow be hampered by the fact that it could simply not be reached by consensus, or by preventing members of the National Assembly from looking into certain documentation. Dear fellows, this cannot happen! We have a constitutional category, Members are completely equal and we have the right to look into every document for the purpose of performing our general function as Members of the National Assembly. We must solve all the tasks in this country, all the social issues that arise at the entire level of the country, so we must also have the right to look into every document. But we all know how to deal with documents of a confidential nature under the law on Members, under the law on classified information, under the law on companies and a variety of other documents - we know how confidential documents should be handled. And that's unacceptable. Someone obviously wants Members not to be equal and Members should not have access to certain documents. Look, there's only one case I'm gonna tell you, because I did a test of what's going on with us. Not because it's someone I'm about to mention or not to mention his name, but what happened to me when I wanted to see how I had access to certain documents, even as chairman of the commission of inquiry, but not this. Look, I wrote a letter to the secretary-general saying, "Honored! As a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, I request an insight into the archive of the Investigative Commission on the investigation of post-war mass beatings, legally questionable processes and other such irregularities, which was conducted by Dr Jože Pučnik during the 1992-1996 term. I want to take a look at it by tomorrow, 25 February" and so on. I was going to trigger this thing because of today's debate. I got the next answer. [[Quote]] : "The provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act shall apply mutatis mutandis to the examination of the documentation of the completed parliamentary investigation," is the answer. Criminal Procedure Act [[Article 128]] provides that anyone having a legitimate interest may be allowed to examine or copy individual criminal files. When the proceedings are completed, the President of the Court or the official person designated by him shall permit this. The review and transcription may be waived if the specific reasons for the defence or security of the State so require, or if the public has been excluded from the main proceedings. In the letter you did not specify why you need the requested material, so it is not possible to assess whether there is a legitimate interest. Please, Your Honor, not because the Secretary-General, Mrs Jožica Veliszek, has signed this. Okay, she just took her authority. Anyway, I'm not attacking her because of her, so that someone would think I had something against her. That's not what this is about. Here we go, my esteemed colleagues, to the Institute of Members. We have a constitutional category and no one can prevent us from accessing these documents. Will we allow ourselves to be prevented? Please, this is the case that is closed, which is in the archives. Now look at what is happening in Yugoslavia, in the old Yugoslavia or in the new Yugoslavia, Serbia, which is a totalitarian state, Belgrade is opening war archives, this has been published on TV Dnevnik 1 and also on postwar conditions. Our delegations have already gone to Belgrade to look for these documents. With any interest - I don't know who sent them or our experts or researchers or anyone else. Now we are closing the archives in some bunkers and not letting a Member of the National Assembly have the right, or a Member to understand each other, not have the right to look at these documents. That's unacceptable. If we do not deal with the new Rules of Procedure, then, honourable Members, we are to blame ourselves if they treat us this way. I even believe that because of the situation that Slovenia is in, we all know that it is not the most pink state of this transition, from 1990 to today, it is possible to introduce even more investigative commissions, both in the field of SIB bank, Elena, in all these awards and so on. We know things are a lot more inconsequential, even the darkness if you want them to. There were big things going on. This is about the connection between one and the same people. You know it's true. We just write a list of 20, 30 people and we'll see that everything is intertwined between these people. 20, 30 people decide the entire economic, social, economic life of this country. No, it can't be. This can be decided by the people or through Members only by the National Assembly, the fate of Slovenia, and by civil society and all others who have the right in accordance with the State. Look, in this case, I wanted to prove purely plastic that we support, of course, we will support the amendment of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, but let us really take the time to deal with this issue and study things thoroughly and find solutions so that parliamentary investigative commissions will have the power to set them up and will be really significantly more effective than they have been so far and will have priority over all others. Then the result will actually be achieved, and certainly also the reputation of the National Assembly and the Parliamentary Commission at its peak. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Perhaps the Member would also try a law on information on access to information of a public nature. I conclude the debate because I no longer have any debaters on my list and because the time for law is still open. Excuse me, Mr. Sponik has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u18	Thank you, Vice President. Allow me to explain my implementation in the status of the replica, on the basis of which my distinguished colleague Kelemina has asked me not to publicly say that parliamentary investigative committees are ineffective. I want to explain. It was a misunderstanding. First time. My opinion was that the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation would not improve the efficiency of the work of the parliamentary investigative commission. That was my basic thought. The second was that I had expressed my expectations or my desire that, on this occasion, when the National Assembly first amended its Rules of Procedure on the work of the parliamentary investigation, one analysis of how the Constitutional Institute of Parliament's investigation even came to life. Here, however, I have assessed that, on the basis of the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry, as stated in Article 1 of the Act: "Parliamentary investigation into matters of public interest is carried out to establish and assess the actual situation which may be the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of public function holders." From the brief chronology of the three mandates - unfortunately, no parliamentary investigator has been able to achieve such a stage, on the basis of the final report, that the National Assembly will decide within its competence and find that the political responsibilities of a public function holder have taken place and therefore there has been a consequence. I'm sorry this hasn't happened yet, but it should have happened. The second purpose of the parliamentary investigation is that a parliamentary inquiry may propose a legislative amendment. Today we will have an interim report when some legislative changes are very concretely proposed. And third jurisdiction. For other decisions of the National Assembly under its constitutional jurisdiction - but here I went a brother of professional literature, what this would mean - most likely this means, of course, the powers conferred by the National Assembly under the Constitution as a legislator, possibly even a founder. This also means that it must not interfere with the executive and judicial branches of power. However, I would like to point out that some parliamentary investigative commissions are also in past mandates and here I would like to repeat the so-called Pučnik Commission, which has done a great deal of work, but unfortunately its report with separate opinions remains in drawers. This material, its findings, would deserve to be based on new laws that we have adopted to see the light of the world. Not in Parliament, in Slovenian public opinion. What this commission has found, I have only data based on what I have been monitoring as a Member, could also contribute when we adopt the War Cemetery Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The debaters are gone, but there's still time. Therefore, on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask if anyone else would like a word. Mr. Mogue, Kelmina.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u20	Presidential thanks very much for the word [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u21	One second to get the application. Kelemina, Mr. Petty Officer. Anyone else please? Mr. Companion. By this order. Here you go, Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u22	I have quite some experience with these investigative commissions, and I must say that Comrade Podobnik spoke the truth. The Commission of Inquiry prepared a report, the National Assembly addressed it and also adopted it and this is a complete one. I must say that unfortunately, however, the heads of the investigative commissions, such as colleague Pukšič for Elan, colleague Jerovšek for Vič-Holmec, and after all, we have prepared reports on our own in the arms commission. These reports were included on the agenda of the National Assembly. Although it has been a long time for the National Assembly to address them, the National Assembly has not considered these reports. However, they were classified as points at the meeting of the National Assembly. Those who were there carry this weight and pesos ourselves, why we did not then require that only the national assembly be considered. I mean, colleague Kelemina, I'm sorry, because you had nothing to do with it, but the person you mentioned here was also the one in charge of protecting classified information by law. I don't know, I'm now asking the leadership of the National Assembly to answer us if, under the law on classified information, a sub-law has been adopted in the National Assembly, which specifies exactly who may or may not be admitted to which documents. If this is not done, the Secret Data Act was not respected and its provisions were not implemented in the form they should have. Actually, this thing should have been settled last year. If it were arranged, mate, you wouldn't have any trouble. However, we have had difficulties in the Jerovšk Commission that the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services could not reach certain data in the National Assembly even within a period of one year, which somehow shows that this transition to data, or the possibility of research, or the possibility of Members, to actually perform with arguments, either in the Commissions of Inquiry or in the National Assembly is the one in our own house that somehow closes these paths so that we can work better. But it seems to me that my personal belief is that our investigative commissions are once again all in the stage of initial investigations. However, it has never happened that such an investigative commission would come at that stage when it adopts an evidentiary decision to appoint at least one consignor. And as long as it's not that people who perform public functions are involved in one thing, that there is no such person anywhere, that no commission has appointed anyone, and here I think the weakness of these commissions is. It seems to me that the management of one such commission of inquiry is an extremely demanding job for the President of this Commission, because, on the one hand, it is on the floor of the National Assembly and on the other, on the ground of those who are being investigated, and that it is likely that the practice will only show over the years, as well as the cadre that will be educated in the National Assembly, so that it can cover these matters, will be those who will then allow a much more qualitative treatment of these things. However, it seems to me that, as far as I know, I went to the archive, a list of what these commissions have been looking at and what has been stored in the National Assembly, if not at the moment when these commissions were working, but only later could it allow for some historical judgment on the events that continued to take place. That doesn't make me feel lost the time these supervisory committees worked.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u23	In explanation, Mr Moge, this act in Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure is, as far as I am concerned, in preparation and will be submitted to the College for consideration. I am merely expressing the hope that the College will take into account that the National Assembly is, however, an institution where the doors must be as open as possible but not closed. And that's supposed to apply to the data. Mr. Kelemina has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u24	Thank you very much. In addition, I would like to explain some things, that we may sometimes go too far into some details in the work of investigative commissions and may not see ourselves as a whole as such. Basically, and firstly, we know that all parliamentary commissions of inquiry have acted in public. Their operation shall be public, except at closed meetings, of course, when they have dealt with their internal affairs or if secret information has been dealt with and so on. The findings or evidence, as well as the research and findings reached by the Commission of Inquiry, are public documents. These are public documents, and everyone must have access to them, so to speak. However, if not everyone already has, and these rules are written, I do not object, but that there is no access to these documents at any time by the Member, but it is unacceptable. That's what this is about. However, when some say that we have not identified the subjects at the first meeting or perhaps later, even as President of the Commission, I can assess that it is extremely difficult right at the beginning, in the first phase, until you even collect the data, you are not gathering evidence to condemn anyone in advance as an investigator. However, it is also a matter of whether the Commission of Inquiry will then wish to adopt a proposal on the proposal of any member of the Commission or of the President of the Commission that someone could be an investigator. That's another question. Neither does the Commission approve all witnesses because it is voting on the committee, nor does the Commission decide who will be the subject. Then you can't assign an investigator if the commission won't let you or won't accept him. There's a whole series of other problems here, and it's only right to get rid of them as well. What is most important is that, by amending this Rules of Procedure, we try to remove at least part of these obstacles, which have now been a major obstacle to the fact that parliamentary investigative commissions have not been even more effective than they have been in the future. I apologize for having to use this instrument and using it for the sake of access to an archive, the matter is closed. The case is not in the investigation phase, the case is in the archives of the National Assembly and not all documents are classified. If any document is already classified, there is very little part of those documents that are classified in this archive, but I say that we should have access to them as well. In general, it should have access to documents that have been dealt with at public meetings and are now only archived in a service or in a bunker. Please don't let that happen. If we allow that, then we have dismantled ourselves, dismantled the institution of a Member. No wonder there's a bad voice about us. We must take this right because it is fully constitutional and also legal, and I am firmly convinced that with the new rules of procedure, respected colleagues and colleagues, we will be able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u26	As with the success of the commission of inquiry, we can draw up an opinion on the basis of what emerged from these investigative commissions. There is, in fact, a misunderstanding of what these commissions would do and what they would reveal. Are they a substitute for the prosecution and the court proceedings or is that a supplement or something? We are aware that the task of the Commissions of Inquiry is to detect political involvement, particularly in this area. However, if we are to open and detect this, and therefore the Commission of Inquiry must have all the necessary instruments and tools to do so, then, of course, we can also find ourselves, if we want to justify it, in other areas, because it is also a crime or something similar, which is the task of the prosecutions and the criminal police. Actually, this is where things get complicated. I also believe that some data protection was being sold and that the Institute for the Protection of Private Data was being abused for some other purpose, in order not to protect private data. In the framework of the parliamentary commission of inquiry or other commissions, I do not think that this would be triggered in accordance with the correctness of the functioning of the commissions. But based on that, the work of the investigative commissions was handicapped. However, the issue of professional competence, training and skills that the investigative commissions have remains. I have some experience, not with an investigative committee, but with a commission to oversee investigative services. This is a few steps for those who are specialists either in professional institutions or state agencies, but maybe even more steps for those who are involved in intelligence and supervision, I don't know what else is beyond the law. I think that's still going to be the embarrassment of these investigative committees. Therefore, it would be necessary to focus on not hindering the functioning of the commissions with some deliberate security issues, so that all those who work inside are committed to it. We know how they are committed to enabling them to perform with dignity. Otherwise, we're going to have to deal with a plot like this. It was just yesterday on this show, I don't know what it's called, Tarča, this conflict between the Attorney General and the President of the Parliamentary Commission, Mr Zammernik, for the delivery of materials. The law says so and the constitution says otherwise. Listen to who? This was suggested by a dilemma that remained unresolved. According to the hierarchy of laws, there is little to answer, the Constitution is the first and the failure to comply with the Constitution is to be abolished. And it is dismissed by the Constitutional Court, to the extent that it is disputed. I think it's an item that should be cleared up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Whenever you make some grades that are highly colored, you can give someone a different opinion. I appreciate your warning, Comrade Mojet. I did not mention that one parliamentary commission of inquiry had completed its work, which was so-called the Zammernik Commission. I respect her work, but I allow myself to appreciate that he was taken as he was. I recalled her reports and conclusions at the end. When we all went through that door, we were kind of unhappy. That's my personal opinion. However, the expectations of fellow Members were much higher when they were established. True, that is what my colleague Moze pointed out, and perhaps as a person, he is an opportunity to say that, in my personal opinion, the President or President of the Parliamentary Commission has a key role to play, the dynamics of work, its nature, energy, perseverance, collegiality and expertise depends on the person of the President of the parliamentary commission of inquiry. And if he's good, they put pressure on him. And some of the presidents were good, so they were pressured in different ways. They also threatened them, even broke into their apartments, broke into their computers, watched them, investigated their records. Some of the presidents of the parliamentary investigative commissions even had to contact the President of the National Assembly to try to protect them within the framework of their powers. That's what you have to say in this place. That's what's been going on. And there's a paradox. When the parliamentary investigation happens to members and the President that they are under pressure, it means that it is on the right track. But if it is praised in the media or if it vegetates there on the edge and has numerous sessions and nothing is happening, then there is one's life and there are no effects. I would be very critical of this opinion and would advise. Some European parliaments have the opportunity to even combine related themes with one investigative commission to deal with them more. If we happen in our Parliament to increase the number, maybe three or four, it will be difficult. I'd advise against this path. We're only 90, and it won't work. It won't work. I would also support this idea that it is necessary, perhaps we have been too insistent here, that in parliamentary investigation procedures experts are also being built, at the same time that we employ younger ones in this area, mostly legal professions, to trust them to be sent to education abroad and where the institution of parliamentary investigation is very strong. Because nowhere will they, I would say, get to know in detail and take a look at this sensitive issue as in the work of the parliamentary investigation. I will therefore again call on the research sector of the National Assembly, and perhaps another institution, to amend the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry, to assess what is not yet good in the Rules of Procedure and to supplement it. However, since we need to be in line with the current rules of procedure, which specifically states that amendments can only be applied to articles already proposed for amendment, only a few minor additional amendments can be made at this time. Everything else will have to be prepared with a new amendment to the law, the rules of procedure, the parliamentary investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u29	Thanks for staying for a while. Let's go in the second round. Mr. Kremjar. Anyone else? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I think we will probably, at least in my opinion, have to consider, as colleague Podobnik did, a broader consideration of these issues and not just the rules of procedure. Why do I think so? In fact, a few general questions are raised for us in the Commissions of Inquiry, at least for me. It seems to me that practice then proves it. That is, if the Commission of Inquiry is not sufficient, I think that if the Commission of Inquiry is not sufficient, it is not wrong to understand me, it is well established. When I say this, carefully established, I think of a very clear motive why an investigative committee should be set up. If this motive is not fully clear on what this commission should do, then of course two can happen. I am afraid that several times this was an opportunity to be detected in this House. It can also happen that the expectations of this Parliament, the public, journalists and so on become a parallel body, some reserve police, a backup prosecutor's office, which is, of course, completely wrong. Because then we're doing something that is supposed to be done by professionals. And of course, an amateur can never be as good as a professional, logically, should be. That's one danger. Another danger is that, of course, it becomes some kind of political court, resort or anything. I'm talking about possible deviations, possible dangers and possible expectations. Of course, I think it's completely wrong if one or the other happens. Therefore, I believe that, if it is not already clear, even reasonable, suspicion, as it is called, that there is a reasonable suspicion that something is going on and that this Commission should investigate whether, for example, the responsibility of the holders of public functions in this case is such that it is necessary to investigate it. If this is not very clear, then it is likely that the Commission will establish itself many times and does not know what to do. And with that, we get in a lot of trouble. The problem is that this Parliament expects this Commission to do something, but the public expects this Commission to do something, the Commission itself expects and wants to do something, and we are in a position to go in one of the two above-mentioned directions, which is wrong. That is why I am saying that the pre-phase, when we decide how this is to be written down, should, of course, also be considered in the Rules of Procedure when the Commission is first set up by Parliament, should be more clearly, more clearly, why and in what direction this commission should go and what it should do. I fear that, with some extreme enthusiasm, that we should give something but do something because some irregularities have been detected, we often observe a lot of this and, in enthusiasm, set up a commission. This commission then finds itself - the Commission itself and, of course, Parliament - in some strange position to begin first - as colleague Kelemina mentioned - to think for a long time, if I understand correctly, about what to do. And what my colleague Moze said, of course, you don't even have an investigator actually defined at that time, but somehow you're looking and of course you can get by, it's not necessary for you to go. That is why I think that this stage - and therefore I am talking about it now - is extremely important and it would be good to think clearly in the future at the time of setting up and before the establishment of the parliamentary commission of inquiry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u31	Thank you very much. And Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I have three concerns or comments on the discussions or on the solutions to be taken in this amendment to the Rules of Procedure. The first is about opening meetings. I think that the dilemma around this is open - a closed session of these committees, and I think that in an open session it would be very dangerous to have an open scene for me here, where it would be possible for one or the other people to discredit and abuse the open scene in such a way or another. In fact, Members are allowed on such commissions to do something that is not possible anywhere else. And if this were the case here, on the one hand, we could discredit people in one way or another that would either be sources of information or anything else, or perhaps later investigated. And that wouldn't be good. But a commission like that could turn into a performance site. The second point is that, according to its function, Members may have access to any information which is of a strictly confidential nature. I think I understand this initiative very well. If 90 Members have this option, then we will no longer have data of a strictly confidential nature. Not to offend anyone in this membership of the '90s. Then it is possible to go to any document and every matter will be made available to the public via the media or in any other way. In fact, we already have this experience, that we have said: the document is of a top-secret nature, but it was happy to be written about, and nothing happened. However, I am in favour of the commission, the members of the commission and the stories being investigated - I support such aspirations - but they have certain powers and that what has happened to the Jerovsk Commission in the case of the supervision of security intelligence services does not happen. And thirdly, I think it has also been said: every matter will be hopeless if the story repeats itself, but the authorities that should have done this long before this commission will not react. Last night, we were able to hear a lot about how the system was not coordinated at all and that the situation in the police, the prosecution, if they didn't stagnate, was getting worse. And we've had a number of cases where the D.A. hasn't responded. And if the commission comes to a conclusion, then forward or in the middle of nothing, then every matter is free. With the Zámernik Commission, this was the case, in the case of weapons, where all the authorities were numbed and on the one hand had documentation for business, some tens or one hundred million dollars, intelligence services for tens of thousands of marks, and in the meantime nothing. The Commission has not even had the opportunity to present its findings here. And if these matters do not recover or otherwise settle, then, of course, these committees will continue to be grateful. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u33	Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u34	Thank you very much. That's what I'm trying to explain. Look, now if, by chance, at some commission, it happens that he doesn't take the evidence decision immediately at the beginning, which is the first basis of the commission's action, then it's a little awkward. However, any commission I know has so far adopted a proof decision at the beginning of the meeting, which, if it wishes, may be supplemented at any meeting, within the limits of the powers conferred by the National Assembly, it can also extend this evidence decision and then, of course, also explores it in this direction. And the research objectives are perfectly clear. So these are some of the dilemmas that are clear, and here I would not want any doubt to remain about this. But I do know that it may have happened that one commission has no proof. I don't know why he doesn't have it or why you didn't get that commission to have a proof decision. That's what we should do. In some ways, you need to coordinate so long that you can achieve this, and the National Assembly has determined the course of the investigation by its decision. However, as far as the investigators are concerned, as well as looking at the history of all the investigative commissions, there were quite a few investigators. There were. However, it is not always possible to determine whether, or whether, as I said before, you do not get consent for this, or whether the person proposing to the subjects does not get consent from the commissions so that the Commission, as a whole, can take the initiative or decide that someone should be investigated. That's another question. But to be clear, even the investigators were quite a bit, they were also questioned or, as investigators, also made certain conclusions, but it is a shame that then our other law enforcement authorities - both the courts and prosecutors and so on - may also not do those tasks which should then be carried out in the context of the findings of the parliamentary commission. That's right. Because, as you know, we can't, if we find a crime, we can't commit a criminal act against someone, but the authorities responsible can. Their duty was, of course, to bring these things to an end. However, it is the duty of the Commission of Inquiry - and of course this cooperation takes place between these authorities - to also make such a proposal to the relevant authorities and to act accordingly. All these relations are largely agreed upon. But if there is no efficiency on the other hand, there are other problems and other questions. In short, many things are clear, some small, what is not yet, but we will - I am sure - in further discussion with this change of rules or the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly we will be able to reach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u35	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to decide that the draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry are appropriate for further consideration, we will decide today at 7.40 a.m. in accordance with the course of the meeting. I'm breaking this agenda. Point 10 will be dealt with at 11:20.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u36	It's a proposal for a law on real estate mediation. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome the Minister, Mr Secretary of State. With regard to this law, a group of 12 Members with the first-signed Anton Anderlic requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. I give the text first to the government representative for further explanation of the bill, which is 5 minutes under our Rules of Procedure. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u37	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a real estate law is, I can say, being prepared for a very long time. It's not exactly become a real estate, it's moving, but we've been dealing with it for a long time. It happened that it was produced in various working versions in 1999 and 2000 as well. Then, in the end, it happened that in 2002 Member Janez Podobnik submitted his proposal for a law, and then he ruled on his proposal for a law. Both had similar orientations at the baseline, and there were also some significant differences. One of the most important, or essential, of that public response was the difference between these real estate brokers and their interest association. The proposal for a bill by Mr Podobnik provided for a merger within the Economic Chamber, while our proposal for a law provided for a merger within a new, independent Chamber. The controversy that had occurred because of - I can say - the procedural complication had been very useful. In the context of this controversy, all the protagonists of this proposal have met intensively, coordinated and eventually coordinated. As a result, the Member, Mr Podobnik, withdrew his proposal for a law. But I can say that together, the bill that came into existence in all this negotiation is here before you. In short, it's not just a government bill, but it's a joint bill on real estate mediation. It contains some important news in terms of the situation we have on the real estate market. The bill prescribes what education, what other conditions must be met by real estate intermediaries. It is said that a company dealing with real estate may do so only through licensed real estate intermediaries, who, after all, are themselves responsible for possible damage caused. Companies engaged in real estate intermediation - whether it is an independent entrepreneur or an economic company - must be necessarily insured for damage caused by any of their customers. It is envisaged that the transaction fee may be up to 4% of the contract price, including value added tax. Otherwise, in principle, it's a matter of contract. It is envisaged that only one real estate intermediary may enter into a contract or that the real estate broker may enter into a contract with only one and that this contract may be dissolved automatically after 9 months if they have not previously agreed to an extension. The law has or includes a whole series of provisions that mean consumer protection, for example: 'The real estate company must set general operating conditions and deliver them to the contracting authority before the conclusion of the intervention contract. In each advertising, it is necessary to ensure that there is a price publication in the newspaper, publication of the location, publication of the year of construction of the building and publication of the size of the property and the company and seat of the company. The real estate agent must verify the real estate status before entering the business, in this respect in respect of the liability of the real estate company and in this respect lays down the obligation of the real estate company to clearly and comprehensibly explain in writing to the contracting party any legal or real estate error." These are all provisions that are intended to provide for a more thorough protection of consumer services of real estate companies. In addition, the law brings the novelty presented by the register of contracts concluded. This register, in which information or data will be collected on the extent to which any property has been sold in the field of sale, will be a good basis, an expert basis for valuers to be able to use market valuation methods at all. There are still other news that I do not have time to present in more detail right now, but I am sure that in these long-term debates, you have been able to get thoroughly acquainted with the text proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First, Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič from the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Respectable present. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we welcome the new proposal for a real estate intervention law. This area is a waste, although real estate intervention is partly regulated by the bond law, to be finalised and thus to ensure additional legal protection of consumers and protection of the wider public interest. In practice, there are quite a few infringements in the area of real estate trafficking, which are most often suffered by naive buyers. The fact is that the possibility of private entrepreneurship has since established a large number of companies with a wide range of activities, many of which have registered such an activity, that is to say. However, there is, of course, a question of the quality of their services, which is also questionable in terms of the legal security of the persons involved, when transporting real estate in the absence of the necessary knowledge and experience. And it is the protection of the contractually weaker person, of course the buyer of the property, that, according to the SNS Group, is one of the most important and positive features of this bill. We believe that it is necessary to establish the conditions for the provision of services under the law. Although there are still some shortcomings or ambiguities in the bill itself, we are positively defined in the SNS Group and will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u40	Mr Tanko is sick, so now it is our turn, Mrs Silva Montenegro, the United List.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, Minister Kopač and Secretary of State Novak. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we are considering a proposal for a real estate intervention law, which is in addition to the housing law, the Land Book Act, the Construction of Buildings Act and the Space Regulation Act, which will somehow make an important contribution to co-formulation, the operation of this area. We have followed with great interest the creation of this law in the United Social Democrats' Group in this area since, long ago in 1997, the Slovenian Consumers' Union, with its special analysis of the Slovenian real estate market, identified and pointed out the urgency and need for more systematic regulation of this area, in particular in terms of the legal protection of consumers. The specific arrangements for real estate intermediation services have proved necessary, justified and necessary. This was also pointed out in the framework of the Real Estate Association at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, as they also adopted a code of good business practices in real estate business and a catalogue of tasks, which unfortunately has only the nature of the recommendations and not someone mandatory as a directive. That is why, in the UK Group, we welcomed even more the present proposal for a real estate intervention law, which is trying to regulate this difficult area in a thorough and systematic manner. The proposal for a law regulates the area of real estate intervention services, in particular with a view to increasing consumer protection, and we rightly expect the United Nations Group of Social Democrats to raise the level of quality required for the provision of real estate brokers in real estate transport, as well as the explicit prohibition on the provision of such activities to entities that do not comply with the legal conditions laid down. As a result of this legal norm, we also expect to raise the reputation of the real estate profession in our country. In view of the fact that the central objective of the proposed law is the systemic regulation of real estate in bond law, in principle, to respect the safety of all parties present in such relations, and to protect public interest in this area, of course with the intended objective of protecting a weaker customer, we can only find that the law has followed this objective. We can find that the law follows certain fundamental principles by providing for free real estate traffic, ensuring the free economic initiative of all operators involved in transport, allowing for the free assessment of the real estate owner of the mode of transport with it, clearly sets out the conditions to be met by the real estate intermediary to carry out this activity. And clearly, protecting public interest in this area. The proposer added an interesting comparison of the legal arrangements in this area in other countries, but because of our specific situation in the development of the activity itself we cannot take as a model for our operation. In the UK Group, we are somewhat held back to the wording of Article 5, since as a percentage it sets the upper limit of the maximum allowed payment for real estate services according to their value, as this formulation is too general. We propose that the proposer consider determining the classes in which the real estate would be classified on the basis of its value, as this would also establish an appropriate percentage for each individual class on the basis of which payment would be calculated for the intervention service provided. We also believe that the intermediary is entitled to payment at the time when the contract is concluded with all attributes. Otherwise, there could be a breach of the pre-contract so that the contract would not be concluded at all and the payment for the intervention service had already been paid. At the same time, we are aware that the conclusion of the contract does not yet constitute a realisation of the contract, so it seems to us that the time of conclusion of the contract is the basic condition for the payment of the intervention service. Such a formulation seems so much more justified to us, because it means minimum protection for uneducated customers, read to the weaker ones, as it will not continue to be paid to real estate companies services that have not yet been delivered. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we will be very pleased to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Lenko will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Although Pohorec was written here, hereafter, the SMS Group, Mr Vnučec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u43	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We will also be happy to support the proposed law in the Youth Party, because we believe that it is high time, especially in this area, that we protect the consumer, the real buyer, or buyers of these apartments, especially young families, when they face the problem of solving the housing problem, then they may encounter other problems, as we say - from daily newspapers, we find a number of frauds in this area, but they shed bad light on those good real estate intermediaries who are doing their job well and professionally and qualitatively. Above all, we want this law to bring more order here in this area, when the buyer can meet with a number of ways he has to make to make arrangements for himself to become the real owner of a property. At the same time, I think that we should also accelerate the only situation in the land book, because we can still face situations where shortcuts are used in real estates, because there are still many properties that are not correctly registered and in the land book instead of a garage, it still says that there is land, I will say, grass or wallless building land. And then you have to gain, for example, if it's an unwalled building plot, even a statement by the congregation that there's no pre-emptive right that it has - a right - a municipality in this area, if we really want to do everything by procedure. Thus, in the second reading, we will also take a thorough look at the individual articles of this law because we feel that some things need to be done or supplemented. However, I would like to return to what I initially said that these real estate agencies need to be able to create such conditions that they will indeed be the right customer service, so that the consumer can really enjoy that property without any additional care and will not face unpleasant problems in, say, further sales or later findings of irregularities in the proceedings themselves or in any more serious, even criminal cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Podobnik, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u45	Thank you, Vice President. I am pleased to note that the vast majority of the parliamentary groups have expressed a positive preference for the proposed Real Estate Intermediation Act, as sent by the government to the National Assembly. This law will finally fill the void in the real estate market. I myself, as has already been said, tabled a proposal for a law bearing a similar name. It is understandable, however, that, as a loyal coalition Member, I have accepted the proposal of the Environment, Space and Energy Department; this has taken the initiative; we have continued our work. I would like to express my appreciation here for the excellent cooperation with the Minister and his professional team, while also saying that real estate associations have also been involved in the drafting of the law and that the law has indeed been created in the way that some important law is supposed to be created. I am also sure that the debate in the National Assembly will add its seal to this law. At the same time, I am sure that, conceptually, colleagues and colleagues, you will not interfere with it, as the conceptual dilemmas have been successfully resolved in the very stage of the drafting of the law. One of the questions raised by the colleague of Montenegro, and I will discuss him as a Member, is the level of the commission. Recently, in recent months, real estate law has experienced real renaissance in Slovenia. We have a new bond code, we have a new real law code. The new rules are in the area of building buildings and regulating premises, the change in real estate taxes is announced, the new land book law is also coming, we have a new housing law ahead of us, moving on the agricultural land market. And, as it seems - and so is - the government has finally addressed the sensitive issue of property taxation. The situation on the real estate market in Slovenia was serious and serious. Apartments and some other properties in Ljubljana and elsewhere in Slovenia reach prices of similar properties in Vienna and in many other European capitals. Building land is an ever-increasing good thing. However, particularly worrying is the lack of or insufficient protection of consumers. Access to the profession of a real estate broker was unregulated. It is absurd that the State has effectively taken care of consumer protection in areas where intermediaries operate with much lower amounts of foreign money, but there have been no restrictions and regulations in the area of real estate where Palestinians change values created by entire families or businesses, even in several generations. Our real estates could be dealt with by all - officials during working hours, students, even the unemployed, including people with almost no education and no work experience. Now the law will no longer allow it. However, for several years some real estate brokers have been aware that their reputation and their real estate activities are the most affected in this way, and in their organizations they have started to educate themselves and have also contributed greatly to the formation of this law. I hope that the National Assembly will reward them properly and acknowledge their efforts so far. I join the view that it is necessary to recognise the validity of all existing forms of knowledge verification. Why is real estate law so important? In the real estate market there are very different economic activities and policies as well as in the rare market. Here they also find their place of direct foreign investment as well as various financial instruments. Finally, the real estate market is linked to a very important human right to adequate housing, especially for young families, as spoke of by his colleague Vnučec. It is primarily the duty of the State to provide adequate institutional infrastructure to ensure the equality of all entities acting on it in order to ensure its transparency and records. The proposed law will certainly be a step forward. Also in the area of its transparency, the advertising of real estate, the records of transactions concluded by law provides a new basis for the valuation of real estate, in particular - and this needs to be highlighted in particular - means strong support for consumer protection. It is clear that market mechanisms should also be encouraged to increase housing supply. The fact is that almost 90% of us live in our own, ownership apartments in Slovenia. And that makes us one of the countries with a very, you could say, inappropriate housing structure. I am convinced that it would be appropriate for our economic development if this percentage were to move perhaps a third lower than it was before the privatisation of the early 1990s. Last but not least, they also know this situation in other more developed countries. It is therefore necessary to develop a housing market. How does this come about? Not with State investment, not only with state investment, but also with the introduction of appropriate market forms for the development of the rental sector. And the drafting of the Real Estate Intermediation Act is an opportunity, colleagues and colleagues, to say, as I have already done twice on this site, that we continue to draw up a real estate investment fund law. And this law will allow for the formation of different forms of long-term investment and land, both local communities and others, while at the same time it will become an attractive saving form for many Slovenes. This is also a provision that is not in the coalition contract, so we will try to prepare it within the section in the parliamentary group and then, of course, invite all Members and Members to the law. The real estate funds will build apartments and other properties and will not buy them on the market and will automatically raise their price. Their income will be rent and income from management. The law would, of course, propose suitable tax reliefs, which would also allow for adequate profitability. We expect that soon after the adoption of this law a number of important sub-legislative acts will be drawn up which will define in more detail the real estate brokers' education programme or determine the valuation of real estate. It will also be necessary to establish an appropriate public institution to take care of real estate price records, which will be of paramount importance for the operation of the valuers, for the development of housing policy measures and for the possibility of market analyses of real estate companies. All of these will require the close cooperation of state authorities with professional and professional associations and, in addition, with the academic sphere. In doing so, it also shows consideration for other people’s experiences. One of the interesting experiences is Australian. On 1 February, Slovenia also took a major step forward in the liberalisation of the real estate market: we have opened up to the Member States of the European Union and, subject to reciprocity, citizens of the Member States can also purchase property as are the case with Slovenian citizens. Government officials may still have some information about what happened last month in this area. We are convinced that for the further development of the real estate market in many ways it depends precisely on foreign investment, which will have to be more strongly encouraged. And more serious opportunities for foreign real estate investments will need to be provided for further professional education of participants in the real estate market. The Real Estate Intermediation Act provides for an appropriate level of education for real estate intermediaries and an expert examination. There may be some concerns about this solution, but this solution is primarily meant to protect consumers. The professional education of real estate intermediaries will require further steps by professional associations and, as is said, academic organisations. The same applies to certain other occupations and activities in the real estate market, such as real estate managers. The latter can be performed by anyone, although this activity requires a whole range of knowledge and skills. We expect the new housing law to bring news to the managers. These companies will also become important financial organisations as they will be able to manage long-term assets to support the housing fund. Will this task be part of the process, or will we soon witness new financial manipulations? We are therefore pleased in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that the proposal for a real estate intervention law is before us and that an important debate will begin in the context of the procedure, which will co-form the future image of the real estate market, which will be an important basis for the further economic development of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Aloise Sok, New Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u47	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members! On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I would like to draw attention to four issues, four dilemmas that have arisen in relation to this law. First of all, the draft law lays down the conditions for the execution of the mediation which must be met by the real estate company or the intermediary employed by it. The company is considered to have to have adequate premises, to have an employee of at least one intermediary with a licence from the Ministry of Environment and Space and to have an entry into the directory of real estate intermediaries, also with the Ministry, and to have secured liability in accordance with this law. The law provides that an intermediary must have a higher professional education, a professional examination carried out in accordance with this law and must not be punished in advance. We have been disturbed by this law, as we have repeatedly pointed out in some other laws, by the fact that all intermediaries who have already passed the professional examination must be tested by any of the entities that have passed the examinations so far and are also named in the law, that within three years of the adoption of this and this law they must re-examine the Ministry of Environment and Space. So, isn't this an intervention in the already acquired right? It is said that if someone has completed a professional qualification and has therefore obtained a licence, he has obtained an expert examination, why does he then take this right from the Ministry to require him to re-examine in three years after the adoption of this law after some of the new regulations that the Ministry will draw up require such training from him? So here we have also seen that there is a difference as regards these requirements in relation to the other European Union countries which are shown in this report. The next point we would like to draw attention to is a proposal limiting the commission to purchase or sell to a maximum of 4% of the contract price and not from the value of the property. Perhaps it would suggest thinking about this, because the contract price and value may vary, but VAT is included. So we are reminded of this by those who are already engaged in this real estate market. They say that such a provision puts taxpayers in an unequal position towards those who are not committed: therefore, here, with some comment, I think we should face and see what can be improved in this direction in the law. However, the law goes on to state that the Minister of Environment and Space, in agreement with the Minister of Economy, may lay down a criterion for the pricing of real estate services, which means that these 4%, which are now listed in the law, of course, may not be real at all, under a sub-legislative act which the Minister will just prescribe. By comparison, the average commission for the purchase or sale of property abroad is up to 4% for each customer and is limited up and down, and lays down the obligations of the real estate undertaking which it assumes for such payment. In fact, it is also unclear in this law when it comes to 4%, whether it can be in the sum of 8, for each party 4, or only 4%. So, we also point out that this needs to be written more accurately. Furthermore, our third observation is about insurance. Is the amount of 40 million sieves for an individual case really the amount when, on the other hand, a real estate company can be secured for all transactions at annual level for 80 million Slovenian tolars? Thus, these insurance provisions are quite vaguely recorded in the law, and it is also not determined what the consistencys of insurance companies are, or whether they are, so stated as to actually insure the contracting authority. And we would also like to draw attention to Article 8, which speaks of conditions. We propose that the conditions state that those engaged in real estate business must actively master the Slovenian language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I forgive myself if there's a mistake in my list. But as the proponent of this point, Anton Anderlich was signed, and there's no one on my list from Liberal Democracy, and I don't know if it's a mistake or not. [[...]] Good. It's a little weird, so I think it's a good thing. [[...]] There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Sok has the floor. No, no, no. Mr. Sponik
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u49	Perhaps it would be good for our debate if some questions were answered first by government representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u50	Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u52	I don't have any other debaters, and then I'd just like to ask the Minister - will either of you talk first? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u53	Thank you for your word. A few questions were asked. Whether 4% of the commission is really four percent, or that's four plus four. I think it's very clear in the law that only one commission can be charged, unless it's distributed between two, but they both have to be for it. That's a maximum of four percent. The sub-legislative act envisaged to be so loosely foreseen may, perhaps not be, there is no time limit for the specification of the individual elements of the commission. This is a provision made by the Ministry of the Economy or the Consumer Protection Office to avoid all four percent automatically prescribing that some actually do not have such needs and that in this way there are oligopols where you do not actually have a choice, because all have a four percent commission. In fact, it is justified in some cases, but it is not in others. This is why, in the government procedure, we have resolved with the possibility of such a sub-law which may prove necessary through practice and may not. In some ways, however, it is good to have such an emergency if some unpredictable situation in this market is to point to the need for such an act. Your question about 40 million tolars - whether they're really protecting the customer. This law cannot be strictly prescribed because it is not an insurance law, but a real estate law. And what the insurance contract between an insurance company and an insurance company looks like, of course, is the point of their relationship. However, the law explicitly states that in the event of a cause - a real estate company must be protected in the event of damage to the customer. Maybe I didn't understand the questions very well. As regards the issue in the Slovenian language in business. This is already regulated by the Consumer Protection Act for all types of business and there is no need for such a provision to be repeated again and again in every field law. However, as regards the issue of licensing or obtaining appropriate education, I think that a Member of the SLS has already given a partial answer on behalf of SLS when he spoke about which laws have changed lately: real law, bond law, building law, land regulation law, there will be a new law on land soon, and the law on agricultural land will be amended and the law on housing law will be amended and so on. Practically, all the knowledge used by real estate intermediaries so far is new and, in fact, everyone has to go again through this education. We had this discussion with them, with representatives of real estate companies, and they themselves agreed that this was in fact such a transformation that everyone must go through some school again. It is also true that it is impossible, indeed impossible, in the law to say, well, one who already has that exam that he has done there and there, but now he and he does not have to do it, because you know that these educations have been carried out within different institutions, that the quality of these educations is also very different and that, in short, this private education is in some way impossible to simplify with one common nominee into a common certificate from the past, which would partly or entirely apply to future ones. That is why we have decided on a solution such as this, and once again I say we have reached agreement with the representatives of real estate companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Now there is a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I would like to touch on two things for a moment, but Mr Minister has already talked about them. The first is the issue of additional education and the question of some formal conditions. True, the representatives of real estate companies are - I was also surprised - themselves have accepted this possibility that if they want to regulate this area, one of the key conditions for this is the education of real estate intermediaries, and they agreed to such a solution. And I am sure that within their associations they will also find positive motivation and will be educated for the good of them, their profession and their virtue, and especially for the well-being of consumers, those who buy real estate. The second topic, however, relates to Article 5, the question of commission height. Well, that was one of those topics - in that law of mine there was no such provision - where the matter could be debated. And if we go directly, there are no legal reasons for the statutory limitation of the fee, this is a political decision of the legislator. For the provision of real estate services is not a prerequisite for access to the real estate market, for the seller and the buyer may conclude a real estate contract without the intervention of the real estate agency. I also, as a Member, accepted the Ministry's argument that, in fact, the intervention of the State and the legislator is responsible to determine the maximum payment allowed for intervention in the law, but then it is a question of percentage and height. One of the problems is the next. With such arrangements as proposed, it may be that those real estate companies which provide services to customers to a greater extent, such as advertising in public information means, especially at higher professional level, services that also include the composition of legal documents, the guardianship of documents and are, or assistance in the implementation of tax procedures, in the transfer of attachments, in the compilation of pre-trade records, assistance in obtaining bank credits and in the design of financial structures, as this is done by stronger agencies. And these have higher costs in the provision of these services than those companies that only get customers in contact, this is that classic central real estate intervention service. By limiting the commission, they will be in an unequal position in relation to real estate companies that provide only a minimum volume of services. However, I would like to say that at these meetings, representatives of real estate companies, their associations, including the most powerful, the most influential and the least, have somehow taken a decision to register the highest possible payment for intervention in the law. And here's the question then the value added tax, you're right. And I propose that, in the context of the procedure, we decide and we can resolve this quickly. The question remains open if any of the real estate companies initiate constitutional procedures, a constitutional assessment of whether this is in accordance with the Constitution. But I think we can take this more risk, and I will support that the provision in the law remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. But since there's only 20 minutes left, who wants a word? Mr. Sok. Anyone else please? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I applied myself before the debate was concluded. I agree with what the Minister has told me and with his statement that there are many of these matters of bond relations and that it is written there. But I don't know why it's so semi-repetitional in some marriage, because if it's clearly written in a material regulation for a particular area, then it's nothing but confusion in interpretation. And once again, I ask why the amount of 40 million tolars per case, when it is a double amount of one average apartment, or 80 million tolars for the entire insurance premium. So, for all business. I just don't understand why it's written like that. It would then be more appropriate to impose insurance premiums on the basis of turnover or on the number of employees of these intermediaries. And once again, it seems to me that someone who has obtained a permit must, after a law has been passed - and this applies purely to all areas - then the lady gets that same license again. So, I think, even if the representatives agreed to this - I don't know which are the representatives who represented all these real estate companies - but it seems to me that this is controversial. It seems the same to me that a kitten would change some school law, and then he would have to get a degree at a certain school that he had already obtained. So I suggest you think about it, the Ministry, and, of course, those who have already obtained their licenses are granted them. Those who reenter, however, must then re-establish this test of knowledge according to some standards. Of course, we do not object to any additional education being prescribed by law, but rather to obtaining a new permit. This seems controversial to us in all cases when someone has already obtained permission, and I still claim that this interference is an already acquired right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u58	Any other Members and Members? Would you mind answering that, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. When we are talking about the exam that is necessary, which permits the performance of this business, and when Mr Sok has used the word 'authority', we must stress in particular that there has not been a permit so far. Only this proposal of the law, for the first time in history, brings the word 'licence', if I may use it, although of course it speaks of a license, but it is indeed a permit. All education has so far been voluntary. Some real estate brokers don't have any of these. So far there has been no condition, you could start a real estate broker business without any of these courses organised by the Chamber of Commerce, the company of real estate intermediaries or any third. Therefore, it is not possible to agree to this obvious fact that they already had a permit to obtain my new one, because a new law is coming. That's not true. They haven't had a permit until now. When you talk about the amount of 40 million tolars, the law is actually very clear, in a single article, it says: "It should be insured in the amount of at least 40 million for an individual case and at least 80 million tolar for all cases together." This is a very decent provision, but it is true that it may be a controversial height. We did not invent heights, although I can say that an assessment was taken of this as a starting point; 40 million are worth two apartments outside of Ljubljana, or maybe one house, or even one big house. In short, that was the starting point. It could also be 30 or 50 million or 5 million up or down, but this was in short an assessment that was agreed with the representatives of real estate organisations with whom we participated in the drafting of the law. The very provision that mentions this, however, I do not think it is possible to see anything, but it can be a controversial height. However, as regards the commission, the matter is, of course, controversial in the manner mentioned by Member Podobnik. There is also, of course, an argument here that the commission is even bigger, or that there is no limit at all, or that there are arguments that it is even lower - even if we are a little bit of a model in Europe. We have also come up with this 4% with some assessment of what is acceptable for those who do not operate in those places of Slovenia where there is a lot of business. In short, where 4% is yet to survive, it is either thefts or smaller towns, or smaller Slovenian towns - in Ljubljana it might be enough to make 3% or Primorskie - so 4% is an arbitral assessment. In particular, I must stress that the law does say exactly what needs to be offered under these 4% and what are extra services that can also be extra charged over the amount of 4% of the sales price, including VAT. So I think that the space for competition for real estate companies will not run out here, as some additional services that they can also charge extra if they are found by buyers will compete with this overall limit of 4% at the commission level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today at 19.40 a.m. in accordance with the meeting's timetable. I'm breaking this agenda. We'll continue on the 15th item of the agenda at 12.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u61	Colleagues and colleagues! We're moving on to 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY - A DEFINITIVE REPORT FROM THE PROTECTOR OF HUMAN RIGHTS ON THE PROBLEM OF LAWERS IN DENACTIONALIZED PLACES. The Ombudsman submitted a special report to the assembly for its consideration. I give the floor to the Deputy Ombudsman, Mr Jernej Rovšk, to complete the explanation of the proposed report. Please, you have five minutes to do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u62	Mr President, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The Ombudsman decided to submit to the National Assembly a special report on the problem of tenants in denationalised apartments for the following reasons in particular. First time. Since its establishment, the Ombudsman has been considering many initiatives by tenants that are not satisfied with the current conflict situation caused by the return of apartments in denationalisation together with tenants. Such a situation is a cause of constant tension between owners who have obtained apartments in denationalisation and tenants who have former holders of housing rights. The conflict stems from different interest groups. The first apartments would like, understandably, to be marketed and the second ones would use the possibility of a favourable purchase received by other former holders of housing rights. We believe that the special report is balanced because it points both to the problem of owners and tenants. However, we estimate that in this conflict of interest, tenants are in a weaker position. Another time. The second reason for the submission of a special report so far is the non-response of the executive branch to this issue, in particular the Ministry of Environment and Space, which has not responded to many and multi-annual proposals to address this problem. Both the Ombudsman's proposals from the annual reports as well as the conclusions of the National Assembly at the time of consideration of the national housing programme and government decisions remained unfulfilled. The government has appointed a special committee composed of representatives of both associations, both owners and tenants, to prepare a solution proposal for this problem in the housing law. That's also what we've pointed out in our annual reports. And the third time. At the hearing of the Ombudsman's report, this was the case in the Ombudsman's conclusions, specifically proposing that, in addition to regular annual reports, he use his legal right to special reports and thus actively engage in the regulation of areas which are particularly sensitive to the protection of human rights. Members and Members of Parliament, we propose that you evaluate the proposal for a housing law also in terms of the implementation of the proposals proposed by the Ombudsman in this special report. It is our assessment that the proposed housing law now being tabled does not address the problem that we are alerting us to. We estimate that the current privatisation models have exhausted. Those who had the opportunity to buy another apartment already did. We must take into account that these are mainly older people who are no longer creditworthy. However, it would be difficult to accept the argument that only a lack of resources hampers the solution to this problem. Unfortunately, the debate on this special report in the working bodies of the National Assembly was not concluded before the introduction of the housing law proposal, and we are therefore aware of the difficulties in making recommendations to this point. However, a special report was tabled earlier than the law and the debate in the working bodies began before that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Ombudsman, for further explanation of the report. This report has been discussed twice by the Internal Policy Committee. A member of the committee, colleague Lydia Majnik, will present the report and I invite her to the floor. Then the representatives of the groups will be given the floor. Please, colleague Lydia Majnik, member of the Internal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u64	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. Due to the importance of the topic, the Internal Policy Committee considered this report at two meetings on 4 December and 4 February. In addition, following the notifications made by members of the Committee, this topic was also addressed by member groups in clubs, so that this special report has been devoted for quite a long time. On the committees, the Deputy Ombudsman said that in the annual reports he had recorded several disagreements between owners and tenants of denationalised dwellings and then prepared a special report on the basis of a decision of the National Assembly, and that the State had caused an unjustified distinction between unknown holders of housing rights and that the State should correct the wrongs caused by providing financial resources, as it had already done in other areas. He also said that the government has constantly denied the existence of the problem, as is evident from the proposal for a housing law and that the Constitutional Court would also confirm different solutions to the housing law from the existing ones. The representative of the government challenged him and told him that the Constitutional Court had confirmed all the decisions on the applicable housing law and that it did not agree with the findings and assessments resulting from the special report. The government does not ignore the problem, as it submitted the solutions both in the national housing programme and in the proposal for a housing law. The proposal does not reduce rights when, for example, the rights to non-profit rent and rent are for an indefinite period of time. The news is that the proposal provides for the possibility of obtaining a replacement apartment if the applicant fulfils the conditions for the acquisition of a non-profit or social apartment and allows the acquisition of a housing fund loan under favourable conditions for the purchase of denationalised apartments. More respect for the rules in this area will also be given to the functioning of the Councils for the Protection of the Rights of Mercenaries, which have not yet been established in most municipalities. The representative of the association of tenants of denationalised dwellings said that the report had been in the National Assembly for too long and no one had considered it and that the Ministry did not take into account any comments from the association or civil society contracts. However, members and members of the committee felt that, pending the consideration of the Ombudsman’s annual report for 2001, they wished to have the Ombudsman prepare special reports. This special report has therefore been prepared. Members and members of the Committee also had different views on the issue. The majority that it does not make sense for the Committee to propose the adoption of a recommendation because the proposal for housing law is already in the National Assembly. In the second reading, however, the government cannot propose amendments, so it is not appropriate to commit the government. Some considered that such tenants should be compared with other tenants of housing rights, so that the committee should propose to the National Assembly to adopt a recommendation addressed to the Government; others that the Committee should adopt a proposal for a recommendation recommending to the government to set such methods of privatisation that could solve the problem of tenants and owners. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Committee on Petitions, the opinion of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, the letters of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the letters of the association of tenants of nationalised dwellings of Slovenia, the letters of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, the letters of the company of tenants of the business premises of Slovenia and the letters of the association of Slovenian tenants. Following the consideration of the debate, the Committee adopted two conclusions at the end, namely: "The Internal Policy Committee took note of a special report by the Ombudsman on the problem of tenants in denationalised apartments and proposed that the National Assembly deal with it." Second conclusion: "The Internal Policy Committee recommends that the National Assembly take into account the opinion of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee of 20.11.2002 and the opinion of the Petitions Commission of 14.2.2002 and the Special Report of the Ombudsman on the problem of tenants in denationalised dwellings." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Madam Member of the Internal Policy Committee, for the report of the Committee. Before I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups, I would just like to say that the public is always very sensitive to the Ombudsman's reports, as well as to the National Assembly. Although the hall is not full now, it was full when twice it was dealt with on the working body, and it will be full - time in the evening when we decide on the report. I think it is right to say that there would not be a wrong impression in the public that there might be less interest in a special report. We have notified colleagues and colleagues to present the views of the members of the groups. First, colleague Barovic, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, and then colleague Brejc, for the Socialist Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is right, and sincere congratulations to the Ombudsman for presenting this special report. It is right that it respects the provisions of the law, Article 43 of the Law, and it is right that in the special report on the first page it also stated that the Government is in charge of preparing appropriate measures to address the problem of tenants in denationalised apartments. That's right. In particular, this point is today, a little late, and on the other hand it is right to talk about it at the moment when we talk about the proposal for a new housing law. The Ombudsman's findings that tenants are in denationalised apartments among the most obvious victims of transition are indisputably substantiated in the report. There's no doubt about it. The tenants of denationalised apartments pay the price for the country's decision in the context of denationalisation, when it decided to return the property together with the tenants, together with the tenants, I stress. On the basis of a long study of a number of specific life cases, the Ombudsman found that tenants of denationalised apartments were victims of human rights violations. His findings are clear and well-founded. The Ombudsman is specialized and by law and is responsible for investigating and detecting human rights violations, so the assessment of his report by the Minister of State and other officials of the executive branch is, yes, "repeated", the Ombudsman, or that the report is "partially" In our opinion in the Slovenian National Party, it is a deliberate contravening and unacceptable violation of the law on the Ombudsman and the Constitution, which commands the principle of the protection of human rights. We believe that it is only necessary to decide whether or not the human rights violations found will be resolved. Therefore, further discussions should focus primarily on the correction of manifestly wrongs, which is evident from the Ombudsman's report, but not on the correctness of the Ombudsman's report, which is said to be irrefutable. The State Department's claims that the new housing law, which we will talk about in a good hour, will remove most of the injustices committed by tenants, are, of course, misleading in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party and in my opinion, and do not have any basis in the bill itself. The new bill insists on the existing system-wide solutions to the regulation of leases, which, of course, has also been commended by the proposer for his explanation of the bill. The ten-year implementation of the law has shown that ten-year-olds are under severe pressure from owners who want to emigrate and start marketing returned homes, that they are without any legal security or protection and that, because they are staying, tenants must, in their long-standing homes, which they themselves have been restoring for a long time, endure all kinds of pressures, from bullying, justice in courts, daily threats of emigration to even violence. Despite all the above, which, of course, the Ombudsman notes in his report, the applicant has decided to insist on the current systemic solutions, which means that the solutions to the new law do not follow the intention to disengage this forced community and to ensure the peaceful stay of citizens in their homes. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me say that it is based on the data I have received for as many as 78,000 households, which will be even less secure, protected and suddenly 78,000 households on the road under the new law. I propose that we respect the proposals made by the Ombudsman in his report. After all, we owe it to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u67	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. I give my word to Dr. Brajc. He will present the views of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. He's got a buddy named Potch behind him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I too join in commending the Ombudsman, who in his report, not for the first time, warned of one of the great injustices that please men. It is clear that there is a need for a systemic solution, and this is also evident from the various discussions in the Committee and interested labour bodies. However, we note that the proposed system law, which is immediately behind this point, does not address these problems. So let me focus on the key injustices that have occurred in the past within this point in order to see clearly what needs to be done. This is about five wrongs in particular, and I'm not saying that's all, but it's about five wrongs. The first one was committed in the previous country with nationalization and confiscation. It's not just about nationalization. This is not only about decommissioning, but also about seizing apartments on different grounds at the time, after 1945. Another injustice: the tenants of nationalized apartments and occupied apartments were 45 years or more, perhaps nearly 50 years, compared with the tenants of other social housing. If we look at the actual situation, we see that they were in the same status, they were living in the same facility, because one apartment was social, the other one was nationalized. They didn't even know it was like that until a new time came. When these differences came to the fore, they found that one of them could buy an apartment under the Law of Jasbinska and the other cannot because it was confiscated or loosened. So, both of them paid rent to the same institution, I don't know what they were, housing funds or whatever those companies were already called. So, in this country, we've made some difference between people. And then the Constitutional Court decides what it decides. So, it doesn't make any difference, but people feel it. Third injustice: tenants of nationalized and confiscated apartments are now subject to various requirements, as well as pressure, such as emigration, as regards requirements for higher, for example, profitable rents. The state has done nothing here. We have documentation that suggests that we should solve things under the national programme. The government has adopted some conclusions and so on, and nothing has happened. Fourth injustice: owners of nationalised and confiscated apartments cannot have their property, as can other owners. Someone who has received a return in nature, such as a house, an apartment, a business facility, cannot dispose of it in the same way as someone else who owns one such facility. So in a democratic country where the principle of equality is supposed to apply, we have two owners: one who can own his property and one who can't. It cannot be within the same scope as other owners. Why not? Yeah, because there's a tenant in this apartment who can't go anywhere either! And now they're both actually hurt. The tenant is affected by the fact that the owner of the apartment throws him out or blackmails him with a larger rent and so on, does not maintain the house, does not maintain the apartment and all these problems occur here. So, on both sides, there's a sense of hurt that's justified -- and the state is nothing. Fifth Unlaw: Owners of Nationalized and Seizured Apartments [[I'm always thinking about business facilities.]] In addition to what I have already said, they need to contribute a fairly large share of their own resources in order to keep the tenants in these apartments able to buy this apartment. So, their property was returned to them, but if they want to get something out of it now, they have to co-finance this business. This is the wrong world! There's no such thing in the world. Now, according to the new law, even if I read it correctly, 47% of the owners would contribute to at least getting something out of this property. These things don't go, they don't - because I know why this percentage is, but these are things that put citizens in a different position, one and the other. I don't think that's right. The blames were done to both of them. Equally, of course, it's very different, but the injustices were committed. Therefore, in the new housing law, the government should align the tenants of nationalised apartments, seized apartments and businesses with those who were in social housing with those who were particularly privileged because they could only buy these social apartments at very favourable prices, not to say ridiculous prices. And that was a short time when it could be done, and others couldn't, if you could, God help you, just in a denationalized apartment. But that is not how a country that looks at all its citizens behaves. I also regret that the Constitutional Court has made the same decision as it has. But all right, that's what they decided. But this does not prevent us in the National Assembly from doing at least something to subdue these injustices to both tenants and landlords. We must help one another with this law. It is unacceptable if injustices from the past are passed on to the present and even to the future, as we see. The State of Slovenia has assumed certain responsibilities, some responsibilities, with independence. She's the legal heir to the SFRY. Therefore, it must also take responsibility for the burdens arising from this legacy and eliminate the injustices that have been caused in the past, and in particular must eliminate the injustices that it has caused itself. Finally, Slovenia is a member of the Council of Europe. The resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of 1996 1096 states, quote: "... that the property, including the property of churches, which has been unlawfully or unjustifiably confiscated by the State, be returned to the original owners, if possible without violating the rights of current owners who have acquired property in good faith or without violating the rights of tenants," but that is what I am now referring to. This is said either, 'without violating the rights of tenants who have rented premises in good faith and without damaging the progress of democratic reforms. In cases where this is not possible, only a material refund should be granted. The requirements and disputes relating to individual cases of property recovery shall be decided by the courts." This resolution of the Council of Europe, Slovenia is a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, commits us to how to say proper treatment of tenants and, of course, to the owner a little earlier. I point out, once again, I am talking about two categories: the tenants who had this bad luck in their lives, that when they got an apartment, they took that apartment, in fact, they were happy to have it, but then in this new democratic country, it turned out that it was once seized or nationalized and, of course, they are in a worse position. However, those who had been in a social apartment from the beginning could have bought it off. So we created this difference, we, in this country, a democratic state! And I don't think that's right. As I have already said, it is not right that a paper holder cannot manage his property as well as other owners. There are mistakes on both sides. Therefore, the state cannot pass on some of the burdens arising from the past to the citizens. The state has taken this property back then, of course, another country, but if we are an honest, democratic state, then we must treat our citizens as it is appropriate, just as it is for every democratic state and as it is for the Assembly of the Council of Europe, let us not, however, ignore this Council of Europe resolution again. I am a member of this Parliamentary Assembly myself, and I would be very embarrassed and very uncomfortable if, on the basis of very strong initiatives coming from one side or another, I should raise this issue in the Council of Europe. That would be really unseemly. I think we have a really great opportunity here today to remove these really inappropriate things from the past and, of course, our short history. Let's do our best! I appeal to those of you who have the power in this national assembly, take care of those who have not been able to help themselves! Because a good part of Slovenian politics with the highest peaks helped itself with the law of Jasbinš. And now have some hearts, and help those who are hurt! Show once one width to the people who are affected. Otherwise, we will have to use the only means that remain, but these are really unpleasant for the state of Slovenia and will put us in a very distasteful light. And here I must tell you that if this country does not correct the mistakes that it has caused itself, then you cannot condemn any of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia if it refers to the Court of Human Rights if it launches proceedings against Slovenia in the Council of Europe to disregard the resolutions in which it has participated and even voted for them. Please, I appeal to you for a little more feeling for the people. This law, which is at the next point in time, is certainly a good basis for correcting it properly; however, I do not think it meets the requirements that the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman referred to earlier, nor is it what was said in our debates on this matter. And I apologize myself for the next point, because I'm going to have to go abroad on an official basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Dr. Brace. My colleague Potrč now has the floor to present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, followed by mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In the United List of Social Democrats, we are pleased that the Ombudsman has prepared a special report on the implementation of the housing law or the position of tenants in denationalised apartments. When we received it, we proposed, in view of the well-known positions in the United List of Social Democrats, that these issues should be addressed on a case-by-case basis for the serious injustices of a relatively large group of people, that the three working bodies and the National Assembly should also be dealt with separately. We are pleased that this letter has also helped to ensure that the Commissions on Petitions, the Committee on Infrastructure and Internal Policy have carried out a specific examination of this report and that Members and Members are aware of the content that is finally included in the National Assembly. While we are not satisfied with the fact that more concrete conclusions are not adopted in the working bodies. Nor for the Internal Policy Committee, they were proposed, but we were Members of the Potrats and I alone, who were the only ones who advocated that more concrete decisions be taken in this Committee. From other parties, I will be happy if they agree in advance that the injustice was committed and that they need to be corrected, they did not support the proposal for more concrete conclusions, but they felt that it was enough if we only took the report into account. What is essential to us in this report? I note that this is a relatively large number of citizens and citizens who were brought about by the legislation adopted in 1991, injustices and violations of their human rights to the peaceful enjoyment of their own home, as our Constitution is supposed to ensure, as well as the European Charter on Human Rights and many other international instruments provide. The basic reason for this situation is the adoption of legislation – housing and denationalisation in 1991. Since it is often, I would say, it has been reported that who is responsible for making decisions in the current situation is the current coalition, it is right to say that the responsibility for this legislation lies with the then coalition and at that time the coalition was Demos, who for political reasons made such a decision; in many cases it is necessary, but in many cases it is the new injustices that we are now facing for 10 years or more and have failed to resolve them properly. Let us be optimistic and believe that this may happen through this debate and the Ombudsman's special report. Therefore, on our part, it is a special recognition and appreciation to the Ombudsman for the very specific description of the facts he has been accompanying for over 10 years and especially since 1994 and for the specific indications that I will not repeat because I believe that we have read and examined them. I would like to say that, unfortunately, I fear that tenants in denationalised apartments are not the only category placed in an unequal position by the transitional legislation and caused injustices. In recent times, it has been found to be a number of such groups. I would like them not to be found guilty of any kind, why such a situation has occurred, because it is an objective situation in which we were when we decided, but despite accepting the fact that some such injustices are caused to important groups of citizens, and it is finally time for us to start eliminating them. I hope that today's debate will be one of those who may contribute. Our wish would be that we are sufficiently specific in this direction in the assessment of the situation and be specific enough in the direction of what needs to be done. According to our understanding, sufficient concrete decisions have been communicated and suggested to the home working body, which point out that the issue of the protection of the tenant's housing relationship is not regulated, that the possibility of buying the apartment is not adequately regulated, that the possibility of their legal protection and the exercise of rights is not adequately regulated, that the possibility of pre-purchase rights is not adequately regulated in cases where there is a formal residence and that the possibility of exercising the right to compensation for investments which they have had in the last decades is not sufficiently ensured, I can say, in the homes which were later denationalised. All these issues were proposed by concrete decisions in the home labour body, not adopted, on formal grounds that they could be discussed in the context of a debate under the housing law. It would be good if that really happened. But I must say, personally, I am not sure that the law gives us good enough grounds to resolve this. Why? Finally, the Ombudsman proposes five possible ways of looking for solutions for this group of citizens in his report. The first travels to the need to find models that could really solve the problem of most tenants and owners of denationalised apartments. The proposed model proposed by the new law is not guaranteed by the assessment of tenants in denationalised apartments. A calculation has been made that no one has objected to. I've been on a few interviews about this, but it shows that if the price is [[day is an example]] a three-and-a-half-bedroom apartment today between €130,000 and €150,000 so that, after the so-called Yazbinski law, such an apartment could be redeemed ten years and more ago for 8,282 euros; whether that amount is accurate or not, I don't know, but such a calculation is made. And my calculations also show that at the time, the ransom was about 10% or a tenth of the real value. However, it is then shown how much, according to the envisaged model, the funds that a denationalisation undertaking would have to provide in the event of a possible buy-back, the compensation company and the legal successor of the Slovenian development company would have. It is found that this together would be EUR 3.3.271, which together is perhaps 20% of the real value, yet the remaining 80% should still be provided by the tenant of such a denationalised apartment, and the account should also be 50% wrong. Even if 50% is wrong, there is still at least 50,000 Euros of extra money left to those 8 or 10,000 Euros for which it was possible to buy an apartment under the Jazbinski Act. There is no doubt that this proposal for housing law in this model does not provide a solution to this problem. What models would be the most well-founded is not an easy thing to say. Tenants in denationalised apartments offered us all members of the Internal Policy Committee a case of a judgment handed down by the European Court of Justice in the event of an English dispute, where, as they claim, it was a similar case where a long-term lease was made on ownership apartments and the English court first found that it was possible to require the compulsory sale of such apartments to renters at a non-market price. The argument was that this would save a larger number of housing relations. Since owners who had to sell these apartments at a non-market price by law brought an action before the European Court of Justice, the European Court ruled in favour of the tenants and not the owners. It has found that such a lease as was established there allows for the possibility that, in an appropriate manner, the right to rent not only to own but also to rent as a special human right, and that, by assessing this right to rent properly and with a relatively low rent, the property right, its value, in fact, is only how much the value of this lease would be capitalised in the long term. If the purchase exceeds this value, it is objective and can also be evaluated in this direction, since it is necessary to take account of the equivalent of both categories, property which is not an absolute right of higher-a-vis permanent rental rights and this permanent lease or long-term lease ratio. This is how the European Court of Human Rights ruled. The rulings of our Constitutional Court are diametrically opposite and give absolute advantage to property. However, the renting relationship or previous housing rights, which was also constitutionally protected, were declared to be, I would say, less valuable and did not give it any special weight, so such decisions have also taken place. It is such a waste, it is right to point out, because it is also pointed out by tenants not to be in a position where, after a long, long time, we really should not help solve the problem alone, but rather that this problem would be resolved before the European Court or before another European institution. The second conclusion of the report states that it is necessary to ensure the stability and sustainability of the position of tenants in denationalised apartments. I do not argue that in legal terms this situation is in many ways not permanent and firm. In fact, it is not, of course, because the Ombudsman thus notes that tenants are the weaker party in relations with owners and there may also be cases in which, irrespective of legal situation, they leave their homes. However, it is good to say that if, at the request of the Ombudsman, the principle of the firmness and sustainability of the position of tenants is stressed, the proposed housing law makes their situation worse. It is getting worse by introducing new cancellation reasons and making it worse by higher rent. I would not discuss this moment whether all cases are justified or not. They may, however, only have to be found to be getting worse and it will be possible to cancel a new lease even if the owner, the tenant or the spouse or the other person living in the common household, has another apartment, and the law does not provide that this apartment must be available, that the person who now resides will be able to get out, what is the location or location of the apartment. The original ideas were not even so clear that it was not meant to be a weekend elsewhere. In short, this is one question that will have to be resolved. And secondly, it is envisaged that an equivalent apartment may be cancelled at any time without any false reason. Of course, this may seem to be very correct, but it may also be important or serious abuses can take place. The Ombudsman himself also notes that any new lease relationship essentially means a worse position for the tenant. Because before that, he had only lived for a long time and had a more lasting relationship. When it comes to a new owner, he wonders why he has come to him and not feel the need to regulate relationships more humanely, but to regulate them on the basis of normal relations, desiring to have as much income as possible from the property itself, greater profits, greater benefits. The third is the issue of providing more effective legal protection. Maybe it'll be one of those law-abiding things. As for the issue of pre-emptive rights and the question of a more realistic assessment of investments, I personally found no solutions in the housing law that would regulate this more favourably for the tenants. I expect that we will be in favour of solving the problems of tenants in denationalised apartments, not just by expressing a general attitude towards the Ombudsman's report today. I expected that we would be more generous in discussions in the working bodies. However, I expect that at least when we consider the law, otherwise there will be little left of us, apart from our good will. And in the end, let me say one more thing. All these discussions or my view is not related to the attitude towards denationalising beneficiaries. By making a decision as it is, the country has done wrong to them. However, this injustice is minor, since it has at least returned property to them with a tenant, while at the same time placing their property in a position where they cannot fully use it by their own definition and wishing that they have in this apartment a tenant who by law pays "only", in citing, non-profit rent. However, this cannot be resolved in such a way that the tenant and the owner must now regulate the relations that the state has wrongly arranged and wronged. This has to be governed by the state. I do not argue that, at the expense of the denationalisation beneficiaries, it is not possible to regulate the interest in return through the backs of these tenants, which has in fact been regulated in the Housing Relations Act and indirectly in denationalisation. Matter is difficult, solutions are not easy. I hope that we will only be able to tackle them in pieces more successfully than we have in the last ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. He's got a magic word now. Janez Petty Officer. He will present the position of the New Slovenia Group, followed by his colleague Lenko. Please, mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u72	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Government representatives! Nicely greeted! The position of the New Slovenia Group on the problem of renters in denationalised apartments. The problem of asset recovery has been lingering for a long time. As we see from the government report, more than 30% of things are still unresolved, which, of course, does not give a good picture of the seriousness and justice of our country, so that what has happened in the past will also be properly regulated. Nor is the question of renters in denationalised apartments solved, i.e. both. Thus, in some ways, I agree with the end of Mr Potræ's report. However, the Government's finding that the reason for the current difficulties of tenants in denationalised apartments, which was adopted in 1991, is not entirely true. The main thing is that there's no way to agree. The real reason for the problems that the Slovenians will experience for several years or decades is the communist system that has decommissioned the former owners in a barbaric way. That's the key reason. As you know, returning property after so many years of generations has been an extremely difficult problem. If the country had a serious intention of saving denationalisation, the tenants would have saved it as well. How it would have been possible to do so in 1992, 1993, when the property of the state estate was sold, we could have built the apartments that we would have offered to the people who were in this crisis, that is, to the nationalists. But to whom? Now the question is whether this right to purchase an apartment is indeed a legitimate and legal right. As we know, constitutional rights are the right to provide housing. Those who, at the time that this occurred in denationalised dwellings, had an apartment, a house or perhaps even more, were not entitled to this proposal, which I had previously mentioned, to an apartment offered by the State from the sale of this property. At that time, however, the state could do so and resolve the hardship of all those who would not have had their housing rights resolved in the same way, in an identical, similar manner as it had before, without knowing that it was actually seized property and that it resides in such a way. So there is absolutely no right to have the same right as those who had the right to buy apartments. Even those who had nothing to buy and were citizens of the Republic of Slovenia would equally be entitled, by the same logic, to participate in state property to these apartments, and they are not. And why would we be entitled to participate? Because the social housing system was built by paying each of its personal incomes into the fund from which the dwellings were built. Therefore, it is also questionable to ask those who have invested certain investments in the apartment to maintain the bivan standard, saying that it is a capital investment. No, it wasn't. Why not? The rents were not economic, the extension of this fund and this property for rental apartments were provided from participation, from wages. In fact, people, employees who were dispossessing money, were solving the problem of housing depreciation. This was just happening in the previous system of socialist self-government. Those who, from this title of investment in a housing fund or fund, or as it was then called, I don't know exactly, had nothing, actually maintained this money fund, which went into quite an interesting sale. That's the conundrum. Therefore, there is no general legitimate right to purchase this apartment under the same conditions, nor is there a legitimate right in any case to a substitute apartment by the State, only if it does not have a residence right. Therefore, we also propose that these apartments be provided, offered, and then decided for themselves whether or not to go to these new apartments. If they have made an appropriate deal with an existing denationaliser, then they shall remain inside, as their contract follows. A fund could also be created from sale, from which then these tenants, who have experienced this strange state of uncertainty - housing rights only assume certain certainty, as the Council of Europe resolution would also say - would also be ensured that they draw on the same terms and conditions that apply to housing funds. The right to benefit from the Law of Jasbin - I can see for myself when I look back that this thing was not carried out properly. As it is not possible to impose obligations on denationalised people now, or to force them to sell at a non-economic price - this is unconstitutional, this cannot be expected. This would be as if all those who then bought these apartments were to accept, for God's sake, those who do not have apartments living in barracks - that is the same position. This way the state can't regulate, at the expense of someone, at the expense of property rights. The return of property rights, however, is very important as an institution. As you know, this is one of the first institutions created in this human society. The establishment of ownership rights and protection also in some way ensured social reconciliation that it was not everyone against everything. In case of theft, you know what it's like if someone steals my property and then rents it or sells it, I have a priority right to return it. However, those who bought it do not have a priority right to continue enjoying it. This is the legality of ownership rights arising from this right and it makes no sense for Slovenia to regulate this matter differently. Unfortunately, such a sale of this housing fund is no longer possible, except perhaps for a small number of unoccupied dwellings. But we could provide this from the housing fund, for example, in Ljubljana, is some kind of housing fund. [[I hear it's some success story.]] which promises a lot of apartments. But this housing fund would only, at least in Ljubljana, perhaps in other cities or regions, guarantee and relieve these injustices or save these injustices. However, it is not possible to support the solution proposed by residents to force owners to sell them at the same price as the country with housing law in the early 1990s. Such an improper way is not possible, is not just or unconstitutional. By the same logic, everyone in the privatisation process would be entitled to housing at a ridiculous price, but they did not receive anything and they were obliged to make a mandatory contribution to housing in the current budget. Another constitutional division cannot afford Slovenia when it has other possible solutions, especially in the country. Dear colleagues and colleagues, are they not in a more difficult situation for families who live in apartments they have rented on the market or for those who live in barracks because they do not have the money to survive. The Ombudsman's report should also address the legitimate demands of denationalised persons who cannot enjoy their property and their property is failing, on behalf of which constitution they are not allowed to do so. That's not legal action. Why, 12 years after independence, the state did not regulate the registration of immovable property in order to burden all citizens in a uniform manner according to the same methods or principles of justice, not only those owners. The burden of rescue of residents cannot be solved at the expense of denationalisers, for they are not to blame and are not to be saved. They cannot be treated differently because of this situation. This is exactly what we must deny to the Ombudsman, who would like to regulate justice in a way that disregards the legality and constitutionality of property rights. Some suggestions are controversial. This has also been pointed out by the Commission on Petitions and I think that this Committee on Infrastructure has taken this matter into account in a substantive sense. The right to housing is certainly a constitutional right, but this does not mean that the State can force the owner of the apartment to take someone else into an apartment or sell it under duress without a legitimate public interest and even below the price. By the same logic, we could upload what I've already said to these tenants. Most of the decisions submitted by the Ombudsman cannot be realized because they are constitutionally and legally controversial. However, it is possible in the way we have proposed it, and I think that some of these rapporteurs' proposals are therefore going in this direction. This is the opinion of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u73	Thank you very much, colleague mag. It's a trifle. Mr Lenko will present the views of the DeSUS Group, followed by his colleague Štemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Deputy Ombudsman, member of the government, colleagues and colleagues, Members of Parliament! The Ombudsman first drew attention to the problem of tenants in denationalized apartments in 1995. That, despite some attempts in all these years, the problem has hardly moved from a dead point, proves the special Ombudsman's report that we are considering today. Members of the democratic party of pensioners also turn to us by letters or in person many times, so we feel a special duty to discuss the problems and to try to find the right solutions. The right to housing is contained in a number of international documents and is also guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in Article 78. Even though it does not form part of fundamental human rights, which would result in such a provision having effective legal protection guaranteed, the State must nevertheless ensure that the exercise of the right or good protected by that right is possible. The task of the State is, therefore, to provide citizens with the opportunity to obtain suitable housing by appropriate legislation and other measures. Legislation has not proved appropriate in the case of former tenants and new owners of denationalised apartments. Moreover, the rules relating to this area only exacerbated the conflicts between them, as they establish on the one hand the ownership right of the denationalisation beneficiary under the denationalisation law and, on the other hand, the housing law expressly provides that the rental contract concluded is also valid after the denationalisation procedure has been completed. Since the law on denationalisation can no longer be amended backwards, the only thing left for the government is to change the housing law. Equally unconvincing are the measures to encourage the resolution of the situation as they do not bring the desired success. Each unresolved question affects an individual, for it brings uncertainty to life. In the present case, this is particularly true for tenants of denationalised dwellings who are weaker parties to this conflict of interest. Most of these are older people who have lived long in these apartments, who are today 'the subject of the dispute' and although they were not legally owners, they have invested considerable resources in them. Today, these people are faced with problems that the guardian is also alerting them to, that is, with the unwillingness of the owners to conclude a lease with the tenants. The owners do not wish to give their consent to the change in the number of tenants they unjustifiably require an increase in the rent and so on. In the Democratic Party of Retired Persons, we stand for the situation to be resolved as soon as possible. The Ombudsman's report is also an opportunity to talk about the solutions that are advocated by the proposed housing law, which in our view do not address the problem again by finally resolving the situation in Slovenia, which has been our transitional burden for some time now. We believe that the possible adoption of the bill would only prolong the agony experienced by those involved. It is true that the bill provides for a new model of so-called alternative privatisation or combines the two current models into one. However, we are not sure that the possibility of renting a non-profit apartment in the event that the tenant does not decide to redeem himself is effectively resolving the conflict because he does not wish to or cannot manage it. However, if the tenant chooses to buy, he shall have the right to compensation which in financial terms does not allow the tenant to purchase any accommodation, as he obtains only a quarter of the market value by calculation. The purchase of another apartment is thus not at all an option for older tenants, since banks do not lend them loans due to age restrictions. Also, there are a number of provisions that a tenant who has a prior right must lay down the full purchase within 60 days, in our opinion, blocking the resolution of the situation. In accordance with the principles of fairness, it would be osmosis for tenants who remained in denationalised apartments to buy another apartment or apartment where they had the same housing rights as other owners of property rights. To this end, a sufficiently high subsidy should be granted and the prior right of tenants to purchase other apartments should be laid down. We fully support the solutions proposed by the Ombudsman in the special report, which should also be included in the new housing law. The study and the Directives of the Council of Europe's housing policy should also be considered when considering the draft law. Relations of tenants and owners of denationalised apartments should be arranged in cooperation with them. This is the only way to hope that these relations will be effectively and permanently resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u75	Thank you, Comrade Lenko. Comrade Štemberger, you have the floor to present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party and will finally play colleague Podobnik. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Honorable National Assembly! There are few occasions when we can begin the debate with commendation. The report by the Ombudsman, Mr Hanžk, on the problem of tenants in denationalised apartments demands and deserves all praise. In the Young Slovenia Party, we are pleased that the Ombudsman has taken advantage of the opportunity to use, in addition to the regular annual report, the right to use the partial or special reports addressed to the competent working bodies of the National Assembly, and thus actively engage in the regulation of a particular area which is particularly sensitive to the protection of human rights, which is certainly the problem of tenants in denationalised apartments. The result of this bold act is a report that we are familiar with today, which, with surgical precision, cuts and analyzes the issue, which is in the laugh of Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution, which says that Slovenia is a legal and social state. Unfortunately, there's not much to add to the report. It is clear what was behind this situation, who and when made decisions, which are justifiably marked as insufficiently conceivable in the report. With this marking, we can only agree and regret that such a situation has occurred. We hope that this is also the opinion of those who are still in the decision-makers' position today and who have, directly or directly participated in the adoption of the unfortunate, unhappy and harmful provisions of the housing law, which are so many thousands, as the Ombudsman points out, particularly the elderly, have been pushed into a position where their social security is at risk. It is true, however, that it is unproductive to criticize back, even if criticism is justified if criticism does not follow the plan forward. This raises the question of what we can do to make things better. The report contains a proposal for a solution and it would be valid to take into account exactly each of the five points and, above all, to take the relevant decisions into account by the national assembly. For this urgent action, the Council of Europe resolution mentioned in the report should lead. Let me end as one of the generations that will probably never receive the possibility of such a favourable purchase of an apartment, and indirectly pays through public debt and will pay the difference between the privatisation and the market price of the apartments for many years. I have every moral right to invite all those who have received a majority, if I may say so, to the friendly part of the privatisation of dwellings, including colleagues in politics in all areas of authority, as described by the Ombudsman in the report, to address the problems of tenants in denationalised apartments. This is the only fair and only fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u77	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group will be moved by Comrade Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u78	Thank you, President. As the last representative of the parliamentary groups, I have this privilege to conclude that, in fact, when we have heard the full range of opinions from the Group of Members of the Slovenian People's Party, I can conclude that there are different approaches to the Ombudsman's special report on the problem of tenants in denationalised apartments. Some of your fellow Members are really very familiar with this issue, colleague Potrč, and later colleagues Drobnič and some others took part in this issue. Some of you have approached with emphasis on historical reasons. Topics that are somehow related to ideological views are always brought here either willingly or unwillingly. And there's nothing wrong with bringing that into the debate. But I'll do something different. Of course, it is right that we put this point before the consideration of the housing law today. Here I would agree with my colleague I run: the range of working bodies at this point has not been fully exploited. Above all, what we accept today will be very dry. This point could be a better starting point; the working body could be bolder at this point. But no matter what we find out, we have a number of constitutional courts, we have a number of reports by the Ombudsman, we have some corrections to the housing law, we have some corrections to the denationalisation law, we have a national housing programme, but we also have a very important declaration by the Council of Europe of 1096, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, but the solution will be, colleagues and colleagues, in that we have to pay something. There's no other solution! Everything else is exhausted. It's gonna have to be paid. The Ombudsman wrote on the last page: "The government has so far rejected proposals to align the situation of all former holders of housing rights with the right to purchase apartments, primarily by arguing that there are no funds for alternative solutions. Such arguments fade with the funds earmarked for the correction of injustices in other areas, or when compared with the funds returned under the law on denationalisation and on other grounds reaching several billion euros." Well, this figure on the multibillion euro can be meant in advance. So far, at least several billion euros have been paid directly from this title. However, colleagues and colleagues, some solutions will have to be implemented by law, which is in the procedure, this is the housing law. If I am properly informed, the deadline for the submission of amendments shall expire in the short term. Amendments don't usually write themselves. The proposed text of the law, as it is in the procedure, does not address some of the issues discussed here in the conclusions, as proposed by the Ombudsman. He himself would not be afraid of the unconstitutional or illegality of these decisions, as indicated by Comrade Drobnic. In a political sense, and perhaps legal, and this is a paradox, we can also base these conclusions on this Council of Europe resolution. But of course, this Council of Europe resolution would also be wise to use it on another subject. For example, the War Cemetery Act. There, no one mentions this wonderful resolution. The deadline for making amendments is likely to expire this week. I don't know when the president of the working body is gonna call a meeting. As soon as it comes to it, if there is at least a minimum consensus today to go this way, we will adopt alternative privatisation models in the housing law that will be able to really solve the problem of the vast majority of tenants and owners of denationalised apartments. Unfortunately, this will not go without higher tenant subsidies when buying another apartment or with more efficient material incentives from owners to sell the apartments to the tenant under favourable conditions. Over the thumb, it will cost the Slovenian country a few billion tolars a year, and it will not work. That's what those who deal with this problem say. Are we able to find this money? By amending the housing law, we ensure the strength and sustainability of the position of tenants in denationalised apartments. In the law, we also propose to define even more precisely the content of a non-profit rent, which should not include, for example, capital costs. The possible difference in the amount of rent should be borne by the owners of such apartments - who, but only the state can cover. From this title every year, probably another billion, according to gross estimates. I do not think so, even some colleagues in the parliamentary groups have met with a lady who has been dealing with these issues for many years. It has also developed a model of solution, a special formula, proposing a gradual solution, i.e. a few billion tolars each year for this purpose. The law should define more effectively mechanisms for the legal protection of tenants in denationalised apartments, in particular in the creation of boards for the protection of the rights of tenants to bodies providing free advice and legal assistance to tenants, particularly in denationalised apartments. Housing law - it should consider the possibility of a more effective exercise of the pre-purchase right, in particular in the case of the sale of his apartment, including in the sale of the entire facility. One possibility is that the preliminary right would also be recorded in the Land Book, thus allowing separate management of the floor property. I will discuss the issue of property on the floor and its management in more detail with regard to housing law. All these solutions, as I have suggested, which I hope we will find a way to resolve in the housing fund, in the housing law, do not in any way aggravate the status of the owners of the apartments that they received under the denationalisation law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u79	Good. Colleagues and colleagues. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to the debate of Members and Members. My friend Tanko apologized, so I give the word mags. Majdi Patrati. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. In the short time I have left, I would first like to express my satisfaction that the Ombudsman has decided to exercise the right to a partial or special report in the face of the problem of tenants in denationalised apartments. As it now appears at the meeting of the National Assembly, it has achieved one of its fundamental objectives, this is to encourage a debate on this issue. At the same time, I must express my regret that all that we have heard at the meeting of the National Assembly has not been possible to hear and implement on the Committee's proposed recommendations, and that is how we now have only two conclusions that can be reached by the National Assembly, and this is a slightly worse journey to find a way to solve this problem. I also stress this, particularly because in the Slovenian national report on the implementation of the Habitat Agenda, the country's view of housing policy is not as clear as the country of this conflict that has been so much talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u81	Thank you very much, colleague Majda Potter. Comrade Janez Petty Officer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. I am certainly not thrilled that any kind of gossip about property or forcible on some other tariffs would force the owner to sell to the tenant. That, gentlemen, is out of the question. We know what principles and laws we have in the case of leniency: public interest, tariff. For my sake, the state should buy these apartments or buy them on the market and offer them to those tenants. Of course, those who are under threat of housing rights, not all of them, because we were unable to inherit by the Law of Jasbin. That's not how it's gonna work. They must be taken into account, like those who have rented apartments, on which, gray or black market, or just like those who live - an insult - in barracks or so. They're in the same position. Priority and this way. If the country - of course now is a missed opportunity - if it were then to sell at normal tariffs, there would be money for everyone and there would not be housing distress and even housing in Ljubljana - and elsewhere would not be as expensive as they are now. That's the wrong policy. Clearly, more and more things need to be fixed. So, no matter how much you privatize and give those who don't have the right to rent. To those who do so with hope, of course, who are not entitled to buy an apartment under the same tariffs, this apartment they occupy is also co-owners of an apartment or a house - but there is no legitimate right. This is not a legitimate right to be the same as those who bought. It is not because then, according to the same logic, other citizens who were not entitled to this meal under very favourable conditions, under conditions such as Santa Claus, for example, have the same right. No, it won't. We can't because the country was wrong at the time, but now we're making mistakes again, again such nonsense. It's, you know, on the principles of equality. Now it is only a question of whether it is the will of the executive to encourage the purchase or construction of these dwellings in order to ensure that people in distress are provided in such a way; in a constitutional and legally undisputed way. We need to talk about this. Not to talk, we should do it without talking about it for the 12th time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u83	Thank you very much, colleague mag. It's a trifle. Comrade Lenko. He's not here. Does Comrade Squirrel want a word? He's not here either. Comrade Yaša Zląbec, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u84	It wouldn't make any sense to discuss it with Comrade Petty Officer at all, but it's not about him. He's an insignificant francoquill in this game. It's about the lies that some people tell. [[I'm not going to mention that I'm not going to be offensive.]] . The fact is, the Jasbinski's marriage was weak from a man to a man! People literally came to social housing for free. This would be all right - although, of course, for the national economy, this was a catastrophic matter because people would be able to contribute significantly more to society than they are. However, the injustice that has occurred to 400,000 people in this country, this injustice has been, we must say, since the first day this law was passed in Parliament. [[But he was voted by a very small majority.]] It turns out that this marriage, I can't say anything else, like a criminal law because it put completely innocent people in an intolerable situation. We can talk, in fact, in this case we can talk to the old French that property is theft. One man, say my parents - my parents lived in a block, my aunt lived in a block when this marriage came, they all practically got these apartments for free. Someone got a social apartment in a house, and then this law came and this man - it's totally nothing to do - either he stayed on the road or he has to be with the owners, but the owners are always hard and don't give up on the hair, while all of us are looking left and right and we don't want to face the suffering of these people who are being bullied by previous and new owners in the name of the sanctity of property. I firmly believe that the country and society that fears its foundation is doomed to failure because it lacks that key link between people called solitude. If Comrade Petty Officer lived another 200 years, he wouldn't understand what solidarity is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you. My friend Rupar has a word, but he's not, and my colleague Potts is not, and neither is my colleague Cimperman. I'm asking, does the Deputy Guardian want a word after this discussion? [[No, no, ……]] Then in this place, I will conclude the general debate, unless anyone else wants a word. [[We still have time, not much]] ? I guess not. On the proposal for a decision that the National Assembly has become aware of the special report, we will decide today at 7.40 p.m. when, in accordance with the timetable, we move to decisions related to the agenda items on the agenda today and the four remaining items on the agenda from yesterday's work. We'll continue at 2:15 p.m. until then, I'm adjourning.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u86	We continue with the work of the National Assembly. I'm moving on to 16. Period of the day - the first defense proposal of the housing law. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of 11 Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank and a group of 10 Members with the first-signed Merrant requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill to the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy, mag. Janez the Ripper.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Nice greeting, Vice President. Dear Members! The housing law has been in the process for three quarters of a year now, so I believe that it has been thoroughly debated and examined. He's got a lot of news. It is a very thorough upgrade to the existing 1991 law, which no longer meets today's needs. If I just take a quick walk because I have five minutes to introduce myself, let me be very brief. It contains a standard classification of buildings that we have never had before. It divides buildings into residential buildings according to the number of housing units and the way they are used. This definition is very important for a type of thing, from what value added tax is, to what are the rights of tenants. The law contains provisions on a reserve fund, a mandatory reserve fund, which, however, contains already adopted a real law code. It has an extensive chapter on the obligation to appoint managers of residential buildings, where there is substantial innovation, and this is that decisions are taken with 51% majority, not with 100%, i.e. by consensus. The law provides for a new 13 guilty reasons for the cancellation of the lease, provides entirely for a new amount of non-profit rent, which is at least 3.18% and a maximum of 4.68% of the value of the apartment. Every year, it's a completely new way of subsidising rents, and it's in a way that's much more fair. Profitably weak, those who can prove income weakness, of course, give more subsidies than they have today. However, for those who are not economically weak, they do not grant subsidies anymore, because they no longer know the different types of non-profit dwellings of those who were built in different periods and have different regimes, but all units of non-profit housing as such, they establish a uniform formula for determining rents, but if someone has income problems, they are, of course, entitled to a subsidy, regardless of what kind of apartment he resides in. The law also solves or attempts to solve the problem of tenants in denationalized apartments, which was just mentioned in the previous paragraph. The government did not have the right to participate in the debate at the previous point - unfortunately - and we were unable to respond to the whole series of untruths that have been said in the debate, so let me just say a few numbers on this occasion. According to the existing housing law, 1,600 cases of denationalised housing have already been resolved in agreement, with the assistance of the State of State resources, cash and government bonds, amounting to 4.7 billion tolars. In short, so many have cost us the solution to the problem in 1,600 cases. Under this law, where we anticipate that 33% more money will be spent on incentives to resolve the dispute between the owner and the tenant, we expect that the remaining 1,900 cases will be solved and that the budget for this operation will be $7.9 billion. That is what this law offers, and in my opinion, except perhaps in some detail, it is very appropriate to respond to the initiatives resulting from the Ombudsman's report. In addition, we hope that there will still be 1,200 outstanding cases. And if we wanted these 1,900s, which we're still counting on to handle with these almost 8 billion things, and those 1,200 things that we're counting on from experience so far, that things won't work out if we want to buy substitutable apartments together, that would cost us 48 billion tolars; of course, the state doesn't have that kind of money. I specifically cite these figures because one of the discussers mentioned some 78,000 such cases earlier. This is not true at all, cases of denationalized dwellings are about 3,100 and no more, 1,600, as said, but they have already been resolved. This problem, which is not so big by number, but I understand that it is very painful, is causing a huge controversy that burdens the entire contents of this housing law. We even had ideas that this part should be eliminated. This would, of course, mean that the whole regime is falling apart, so we believe that it may be even better to regulate this with some amendments than is already envisaged, but it is much more generous than under the existing law. However, we certainly believe that this problem needs to be resolved as far as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u88	Thank you, Minister. It is also possible to plan some more minutes for an introductory explanation, but you did not use this after Article 67. That's why we're moving on. I would remind the discussors that the scheduled time of discussion is the following: LDS 10 minutes, SDS 30 minutes, United List 20, SLS 15, Nova Slovenija 25, DeSUS 10, Slovenian National Party 5, Party of Youth 10 minutes and the government planned 5 minutes. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I give the floor to Bogdan Barovic for the position of the Slovenian National Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u89	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, what's left of us! After 12 years of living, the current Jazbinski Housing Act has only been in force since the Constitutional Court has annulled its individual provisions five times because of its non-conformity with the Constitution. In this mandate, the National Assembly has adopted at least four laws repealing or modifying individual articles; I am talking about the law on public funds, the law on real law, the law on the regulation of premises, the law on the construction of buildings and so on. Well, it's high time we passed the new housing law. However, a number of provisions will need to be shaken again, as the proposal we have at our disposal has been made all too much on the Ljubljana situation and will also need to include the specificities of the periphery. It would also be appropriate to take into account the provisions of other laws adopted, such as those mentioned earlier. I'll only touch some of the articles that stand out the most. The main objective of the new housing law is, inter alia, the training of local communities to carry out tasks and to develop different forms of housing provision. In the municipality of Trbovlje, given the specific nature of the economy of this task alone without the assistance of the State, we will not be a part of it. This is due to the large number of social beneficiaries of subsidised rent as a result of corporate bankruptcy and job losses, as unemployment in the municipality is above average in the country. The municipality will have to allocate substantial financial resources in its budget to subsidise rents. As a result, it will not be able to effectively carry out other tasks in the housing sector, in particular the basic tasks on which development depends in all other areas, namely the provision of funds to equip buildings, the construction and acquisition of non-profit dwellings. There are probably more problems in a municipality with similar problems, so I believe that the provision of rental subsidies should be a matter of state rather than of local communities as part of social policy. The first paragraph of Article 173 of the housing law proposal states that the tenant, the previous holder of the housing right, who was leased the apartment for an indefinite period, has a preliminary right. The second paragraph, however, extends the range of pre-emptive beneficiaries if the tenant does not avail himself of the pre-emptive right to other senior owners, the municipality, the municipal housing fund and the housing fund of the Republic of Slovenia. I wonder why I was introduced to the previous beneficiaries by the housing fund of the Republic of Slovenia, since, at least in Trbovje, no vacant apartment has been leased, but it has sold everything on the market, certainly with profit, which is certainly not in the public interest. The result can only be an increase in the price of apartments. The preliminary right is also regulated by two other laws, both in the real law and in the law on the regulation of premises. Both regulations, as well as the applicable housing law, are contrary to the pre-emptive right, since they regulate this area in their own right, so it will be necessary to bring all three regulations into line at the time of the adoption of the housing law. The third paragraph of Article 33 provides that the floor owner shall not be responsible for the payment of management costs and other costs arising from a multi-entity building in accordance with his co-ownership shares arising after his ownership right has ceased if he has acted in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 21 of this Law. The same protection should also be given to the new level owner, since the notice of directors also shows information about the new owner. The provision on its liability for costs incurred before obtaining property rights is also in fundamental contravention of the fundamental principle of the Act on the Personal Responsibility of Floor Owners to ensure the maintenance of a multi-entity building. According to the available data, in the municipality of Trbovlje more than 50% of rental apartments are located, the majority of them are social and non-profit. Due to the extremely poor economic situation, most housing rights holders did not have the financial resources to purchase social housing under the law. The application of rent costs and the rate of increase or increase of rents by 2004 have already been established by a decision on the methodology for the design of rents in non-profit flats in 2000. This process is expected to be completed by 2004 and an annual rate would be established for former owners of 3.81% of the value of the dwelling at the value of point 1.92 euros. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] I'll be right with you, Mr. Vice President. According to the new proposal of the Housing Act, it is envisaged to increase rents by 4.68% of the value of dwellings at the value of 2.63 euros per annum. So, although gradually, the real increase will be more than 68%. Finally, allow this: gentlemen who are preparing this law, gentlemen from the government, please look elsewhere. In our country, the situation is significantly different from that of Ljubljana. And one more thing, the proposer could, in half a year, as long as the proposal waited for the first hearing, do the drafting of the proposal and the explanation, because I fear that mistakes are elsewhere, not only in the table on page 89 of the rapporteur, where there is a highly misleading information. And I hope you'll study this for yourself. I'm sorry I stole almost a minute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u90	Thank you. Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Social Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, representative of the government, colleague and colleagues. So, by our Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party, it was already at the time of the previous law, which we have dealt with, much to say on this subject, which is why I will not go so far in this area. However, it is evidence that the problem that this law also addresses is not so simple and it is likely that only one law is difficult to eliminate, since it is also a matter of intertwining mainly in this area, the area of housing. The fact is that housing law is a very demanding project, which should have made a lot of changes, this is also expected, in practice so far, and also to change certain situations and solutions that have proved less successful or no longer. The law that is now in force has been passed some time ago, but the situation in the country has changed considerably and, of course, the law also needs a thorough ventilation. The fact is, for many years, we have faced the problem of housing shortages and, given that we are also spending a lot of time intensively on housing, that we have, of course, set up a bunch of some institutions, we have set up a housing fund to include a large part of public spending in the housing project, namely, the state, the housing fund and the municipalities. However, the fact is that the backlog of needs increases from year to year. We know that housing is a prerequisite for the performance of individual and family functions in society and that it is also a condition for the successful work of society as a whole. The fact is that all layers are dissatisfied, so those who want to get a non-profit apartment, that is to say, the most urgent part, and of course those who want to have something more, as well as students who are looking for rooms at the place of study. We are confident that this bill will not solve the problem at all. We are even convinced that not a great deal of this dissatisfaction in this area will we be able to resolve. The essence of the changes is already clear from the explanation of this law that we are merely upgrading the existing law. At first, I said that the law in force was actually at the beginning of a transitional period. At that time, conditions were completely different, and now this has changed dramatically. But the fact is, some of the problems remain, and I'm going to tell you something in the end. It must also be acknowledged that the Constitutional Court has also stated its opinion on this. I would like to mention that, in the past, housing funds have mainly been raised, as we said, by withdrawing, by paying personal income contributions, and, of course, directly from corporate income. In short, we were all in solidarity raising funds, housing was being built, and a relatively cheap use was made available to tenants. However, the situation has changed significantly during this period. Housing is lagging behind, housing deficits have increased. None of the measures have significantly improved in recent years, despite the establishment of a housing fund and the introduction of a national housing savings scheme, the belts of needs continue to increase. Because of this, or perhaps because of this, or because of all that has accumulated, prices are rising steadily. We even believe that this process of price increases has further stimulated, consciously or plannedly, this is speculation, of course, but if we go into it, we can figure it out. The fact is that the moment we introduced the National Savings Scheme, we have raised some big expectations for citizens, also positive that they are deliberately saving. However, we have also encouraged something else: higher demand, higher expectations, because the market is already functioning, and this also means that we have raised prices. And of course, now, if we add these effects together - and we have to - and put them on the common denominator, the situation has become even worse. At the same time, there were insufficient measures by the offer of housing, and therefore, as I have already mentioned, it is also appropriate to put pressure on prices and prices are rising. The housing program was from this point of view - well, I can't say that the shot was empty, but the target was not hit in full, but more passed than full. On the one hand, it was an invitation and a promise of a favourable investment, and on the other hand promises of a quick and cheap solution to residential desires. But the truth can be checked in practice. On the other hand, it is said that promises do not come true as planned. The dissatisfaction, however, is enormous, so that another part of the country does not work as it should. So, even the judiciary doesn't always do that, even inspection services don't do everything and then it's no wonder that people buy an apartment in an area where no property problems are solved, where there's no functional land or anything like that, that I don't even list everything, because it would actually be too much. I would only substantiate the fact that the price has risen by about 50% in the last few years. On the other hand, in Slovenia we have an extremely unfavourable ownership structure or perhaps unilaterally. In this regard, for example, if we compare this with European countries, we have a very large fund of our own and a relatively small share of renting apartments. The housing market is almost non-existent, at least officially no, the black market is possible already. We do not have renters' organisations, but individual owners are to a large extent not interested in renting empty apartments or not in the official market offer, but otherwise under the table, just as they are found. If the state allows it, after all, we have nothing to say to them. This housing law, this proposal does not have sufficient solutions in place to encourage dedicated private investment in the increase of the housing fund. On this side, the solutions to the new law governing the relationship between owners and managers and tenants are rather strange, inconsistent and often harmful. The concept of housing also in the proposal for a new law still rests on some public sector ties, in particular municipalities, which are expected to be more intensively involved in the increase of the non-profit housing fund and the resolution of residential buildings, but it has to be said that the municipalities are likely to be able to do so, have no resources, not many of them have ownership, the state knows that it takes some of this ownership every day and then it is known. On the other hand, in recent times, we have been able to see that the budgetary situation of public consumption by the State is going in a different direction, at which time the current reduction in consumption for local communities. In fact, this means that the budgets of the local communities will be reduced, even though the state expects the original revenue of the municipalities to increase, this is probably not going to be completely combined. The fact is that the state wants to save some money in an empty budget box account, but this is not good for the housing area or at least a significant shift from what is expected and planned by the executive. This means that we have moved the burden of housing to a local level, and that even the budgets of the municipalities are falling in the part that the country has now provided is not good. By transferring the burden to the local level and to the citizens, we somehow acknowledge that citizens probably no longer have those reserves, and the country probably does not, and then we are back in that enchanted circle when the situation does not improve. It must be said that major traumas to the housing fund have led to mistakes from the past. This heritage, which is due to the nationalization of property immediately after World War II, is not yet fully and is even less adequately resolved, neither for advertisers nor for tenants. The State is the cause of these complications due to past practices and should now assume the burden of remedying the consequences of nationalisation as a whole, but withdraws into the background and leaves the solution to complex situations to others, particularly the local community. The fact is, whatever the state was, even if it wasn't our current country, there was another country that had jurisdiction over this area. And the fact is that everything that has happened in this area will not be solved by anyone else except ourselves, whether we are guilty or not guilty. If it's our generation's fault or it's not our fault, this problem needs to be solved, we need to solve it. The problem needs to be solved for a reason, and the cause did not arise in 1990, 1991, 1992, it is said, after the 1990s, but the cause was created almost 60 years ago. We never solved this problem for a reason: whether it wasn't willful or not, or otherwise, whether it was political will or some other will, it doesn't matter. Until we begin to separate for a reason, these problems will remain and only become potential. However, the moment we are able to recognize the real cause, that moment will certainly solve half of that burden. But the fact is, as I said before, no one is going to save this for us, and that's what we're going to have to solve. Once this will happen, however, the intention of this law should be to solve some problems from the past. If in this case we do not do what we want to do to cause it, then we will find again in a few years that it is necessary to change the law again, because the situation is not what we want to do and things will not be solved. I would like to point out that, at the time of the consideration and adoption of the law on the regulation of premises, our parliamentary group has pointed out the great imbalance between cities and rural areas, and I therefore understand its predecessor, who said that the law could be directed towards the Ljubljana area. I imagine that he meant the city area, not so Ljubljana, because Ljubljana is concentration. This is a chronic shortage of urban housing, and on the other hand, we have empty apartments in a rural area. This is said to be the opposite of another policy, and the biggest problem is in the housing sector. Many people would not put pressure on cities if the countryside were regulated if economic development between rural and urban areas were more balanced. But again, the consequences of all this are in the residential area. Of course, there is no other infrastructure. There are still many outstanding problems in the residential area. I wouldn't want to waste too much time. However, given that this law is one from which we expect much, even those things that we should be able to resolve in other laws, we have not solved them, but because the law needs to be amended, amended or made new, and because the problems are huge, we propose that in our SDS Group we have a competent working body before further consideration, in accordance with Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure, a public presentation of opinions on this subject. We would like this problem to be fully highlighted. We're gonna have to do this one day. Maybe now's the chance. The opportunity is good, the opportunity is right and we would therefore like to highlight this area from all possible perspectives and then find the right solution, a comprehensive solution. Partial solutions have not been repaid to us so far, and we probably won't get paid in the future. Because we want some good law to actually arise that will solve some problems that we have not solved so far, we propose that this public presentation of opinions be carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u92	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Silva Montenegro for the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u93	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Hello, Mr. Secretary and Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are dealing with an extremely important law, namely the first-reading proposal for a housing law, for which we, together with some other parties, have requested general treatment. We have given special attention to this law in the United Social Democrats Group and also in our party, since we have done a number of interviews, consultations, meetings, interviews with some individuals who have been particularly interested in presenting their individual views on the law and some of their solutions to it. We have conducted a series of interviews with the Association of Rentals of Denationalized Apartments of Slovenia, we have attended a series of round tables, we have heard opinions from the Association of Pensioners of Slovenia, the Association of Pensioners of Ljubljana and other NGOs in the field of social activity and humanitarian activities, as the expectations of individuals and the entire Slovenian public are extremely high in this law. From the very beginning, we were aware of the importance and responsibility of the issue that this law will have in public. Nevertheless, it is difficult to expect from this law an integrated regulation of the area, such as the design, issuance and monitoring of the implementation of housing policy in Slovenia. This is not the only objective of this law, of course, since housing policy is one of public policy and is governed by different instruments. One of the instruments is the present law, which is only one of the types of rules, the conditions under which the State prescribes and establishes standard conditions, standards and procedures. If we return to the past, when the former system and housing policy resources were abolished in 1990, the mandatory contribution of gross personal income and the prescribed use of accumulated funds in dedicated housing funds in companies and municipalities. In 1991, the Housing Act was passed and introduced a new system of jurisdiction and rules in the area of housing, in particular establishing the responsibility of municipalities for social housing and non-profit housing organisations for non-profit rental apartments and the competence of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the granting of low interest loans. Key actors in this area were municipalities and non-profit housing organisations that were left to their own resources, which proved to be far too modest to allow certain movements in this area, as the budget did not follow these needs. This law doesn't solve it either. On this occasion, I would particularly like to point out that the present law imposes generous obligations on local communities, despite the question of whether public budgetary policy will follow these commitments. In the past period, a housing fund of the Republic of Slovenia was also established, which collects, borrows and gives funds. We have introduced a housing savings scheme and adopted a very important document - a national housing programme. Unfortunately, some nonsense has occurred in the past period, and non-profit apartments have become very expensive, since such apartments are useful and only good if they are cheaper than owners. And why have we not been able to organize rental apartments in such a way that they are cheaper for users than for owners? Unfortunately, this law also does not answer or leave a number of open questions. After residential privatisation, Slovenia has a very small share of public non-profit rentals, about 9%. We have less than, say, most other countries in transition, less public rentals than we have only Albania, Romania and Bulgaria. The United Nations Group of Social Democrats believes that housing policy is closely related to social policy and in Slovenia we are witnessing partial relocation of social activities from institutions to non-profit sector, so that part of the activity moves with, say, household care and industrial care to the normal community or adapted dwellings in normal neighbourhoods, which have a number of other support mechanisms. These trends have been successfully followed by the law. The second view or trend of social policy, which is entangled in social policy, is the involvement in the organised approach of the government and NGOs against poverty and social exclusion, as this law follows this trend with support for the construction of social housing at the local level. Unfortunately, the law does not establish a system of thorough restoration of old and other neighbours, as well as the regulation and management of these. It therefore effectively suggests the possibility of regulating common matters in new neighbourhoods. This general discussion may help to extend the problem of the old decaying neighbourhoods in Ljubljana, Celje, Maribor, Škofja Loki, New Town and other places in Slovenia, as residents in these neighbourhoods rightly expect accelerated reconstruction and introduction of mechanisms that will stimulate the emergence of socially balanced neighbourhoods where there should be no closed cycle of poverty and exclusion. We also expect this debate to form an opinion on whether the neighbourhoods and their way of regulating should be regulated in such a way that they are defined in a specific local decree, or whether we can expect the Minister's instructions on how to regulate this area. In the United List of Social Democrats, we believe that the law also provides for the possibility of supporting projects that also serve other objectives, in particular the training and employment of local unemployed young people, who can be socialised and, if possible, employed in the preparation and execution of construction and tendering projects for the reconstruction of neighbourhoods of education. Unfortunately, the law does not solve the fundamental problem of social policy, namely investment in housing, as one of the fundamental findings of the state and the reason for the adoption of the law is precisely the conclusion of the Ministry that the State does not adequately support investors and investors in housing and renovation, since insufficient budgetary support in this area, as at the level of the State or at the level of the local community, does not allow for greater momentum in this area. According to the basics of all analysts, investments in housing supply are too low and therefore cause a lot of problems. This was also the conclusion of the founders of the national housing programme, which, however, treats all investments in this area as equally desirable, such as those of the speculative nature of large and small construction companies to investment in social housing and also non-profit dwellings, it would certainly be expected that the state stimulates those investments that are most needed at a given social moment in view of the situation. Investments in this type of construction are less interesting than the type of other investment, as they require a longer period of capital conversion, more regulated infrastructure circumstances in the urban system, and bring great constraints and risks, so that they are much more vulnerable. This is, of course, the domain of other system laws that would, in one way, help and save the construction sector, which is in serious economic difficulties, through a system of economic subsidies for this part of the construction activity within the Ministry of Construction or Economy. Of course, this is where we begin the extremely delicate issue of combining work between government sectors when they must step together and act. It would be interesting to see what new circumstances await us when we join the European Union, as the national state will lose its development role and the role of regions and cities, on the one hand, and the European institutions and systems of programmes, on the other. If we look at how our cities are prepared to play this role, we will be very concerned about the regions and the provinces that we are not talking about. Under the new circumstances, cities will be particularly more active and more responsible for foreign economic investment in this area. A type of circumstance plays an important role in the competition for the acquisition and preservation of investments. That is whether the area is in infrastructure and whether it also has the appropriate workforce or whether the telecommunications area is sufficiently regulated and prepared. Inaccessible or overpriced housing in such an area hinders labour flow and can pose a major obstacle to new investment. This was the case, for example, in a strongly deformed Ljubljana housing policy and in the Ljubljana housing market, when he managed to respond to the long-term demand for premises and apartments for diplomatic representations. In this respect, it is worth noting that the supply of expensive apartments is much higher in all urban centres than the supply of the most problematic ones, at the moderate cost of affordable dwellings for those most difficult to reach. The second challenge will certainly be the ability to compete, to respond to the funds of the European Programme Funds. And this will play a major role in the future in raising funds in this area. Of course, the problem is not only in the knowledge of meeting the forms but in the process and organisation of reporting projects that require not only substantive and project completion, but in particular the partnership of several actors in the field of housing policy. This partnership usually involves the local community, the departmental ministry or several ministries, NGOs, the third sector of the organisation, users and the commercial sector. Creating partnerships and cooperation patterns is a very important division of work between them and requires long-term training or training and is a permanent task. We do not yet have enough samples to resolve and find solutions in our housing policy. Now a little bit about the other problems that this marriage brings and solves. The present law also brings a number of other novelties, which are important changes, for example, in the area of housing registration. It introduces a register of dwellings in the register of rental contracts, a proposal for registration of rental contracts, a register of users, a cadastral building and the possibility of recording tenants in rental apartments, as it will eliminate a number of disputes arising in the housing block mainly due to the payment of common operating costs and other material costs. However, the question remains how this method of recording and, in particular, of monitoring the up-to-dateness of all these records will work. The law brings the most novelty, which is very thoughtful, in the management of multi-housing buildings. It introduces a multi-housing building maintenance plan, defines what transactions that go beyond the regular framework, what are the regular management costs, sets out the mode of management costs, sets out what should be included in the contract of mutual relations between the core owners, by which they manage the management method. The law lays down the obligation to establish a reserve fund to cover future maintenance costs, the method of payment to the reserve fund, the management of the costs of the reserve fund, defines very precisely the rights and obligations of the manager, the relationship of the owner and the manager and clearly defines the tasks and responsibilities of the board of tenants and owners, as well as, among other things, how the record should be kept, etc. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the definition of suitable housing is somewhat overly loose, so that it would be more likely to be defined in accordance with existing established laws and standards and standards. In the UK Group, we expect Members to receive for second reading draft individual acts listed in the law, in particular the rules on the allocation of non-profit dwellings and the rules on the criteria for ensuring the value of housing and housing, as they can both significantly change the effects of the proposed law. This also includes a methodology for the calculation of non-profit rent, which, by its effect, can stimulate or dispel all processes in this area. With regard to denationalisation, the state, with the current model of denationalisation of rented social housing, has allowed natural persons to become owners of these dwellings, while at the same time ensuring the protection of the rights acquired in these apartments by former housing rights holders. A number of cases cited by the Ombudsman in his report, which you had the opportunity to hear earlier, show that the State of these tenants' rights is failing to adequately protect. These rights were protected only by "de jure", not by "de facto", which is a threat to the tenant in particular in two cases. The first is the sale of this property to a third party. Since the property is returned without actually registered pre-purchase rights and permanent rental rights, the object of this property is enabled as if it were a property without a burden, that is to say without a tenant. The second case concerns the unlawful or unfair conduct of the owner, which enables the lessor to exercise the right to a permanent and uninterrupted use of a non-profit apartment, the unlawful arbitrary increase in the rent, the non-conclusion of the lease, the interference with the property. Since the State does not protect these rights and, in fact, so far, no institutionalised settlement mechanisms have been introduced, there is a disproportionate burden on the tenant to exercise these rights as weaker and more vulnerable, as part of this population is mainly older, sicker and also poor. And it's part of the population, often, if not always the target of the mussels and the profiteers. In fact, protecting the rights of the tenant in these apartments is even more important than natural persons who, for example, did not expect this act to become, nor do they have the motive to become managers of such apartments and unprofessional ethics. Realising that in these circumstances it is virtually impossible to protect the rights of tenants, the Council of Europe Parliamentary Group recommended that countries in the transition of rented apartments should not return in nature if this would result in infringements of the rights of voluntary tenants. These recommendations, which are quite extensive, have been designed precisely to prevent violations of such and similar laws, the proposal of this law seeks to resolve and regulate them in part. However, we expect the government, with its amendments, to offer some more appropriate solutions in the second reading. We are aware, however, that without a fundamental amendment to the denationalisation law, which unfortunately will not occur, the whole area cannot be adequately addressed and adequately addressed. The United List of Social Democrats will support the present law, aware of the fact that it has successfully resolved some of the gaps that are very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u94	Thank you very much for this position. The next one will be Ambassador Aloise Sok. He will present the position of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u95	Dear President! Dear Mr. Secretary! Colleagues and colleagues! The law regulates the types of residential buildings, the conditions for the construction and maintenance of residential buildings, then the housing leases, the powers and tasks of municipalities in the residential area and the supervision of the implementation of this law. I think that this is such a wide range of issues that it really shows what has already been proposed by the Socialists to open a general public debate on such important issues by the national assembly or the working body of the national assembly. Indeed, the Housing Law touches practically or almost every citizen in this country, and I do not know if we are visited by different groups of citizens here in Parliament, if we also attend a round table or some kind of discussion on this pressing issue. I think that this matter should be discussed more broadly and that such an important law should not be adopted so quickly, perhaps within two months. I am convinced that such an important law should be brought about in a somewhat broader debate, which would show that rural housing problems are significantly different from urban housing problems. It seems to me that this law is more written on the projection of the great city, more on Ljubljana's projection, the dapa does not respond to all the dilemmas that are specific to the countryside. However, we know that there are still more people living in the countryside than there are in the cities. In addition to these general provisions, which I mentioned earlier, the law also introduces a number of new institutes. Thus, the law redefines the obligation to identify residential buildings and individual parts for the needs of the cadastre of buildings and the register of dwellings, which, as we can hear more and more recently, is one of the conditions for the introduction of a new tax, this is a property tax. I myself know that the government, which urgently needs more fresh money, would have introduced this tax long ago if it had regulated records, if it had a built-in cadastral structure, and it seems to me that this is an emphasis on the adoption of this law even in that we could get to the point where a new law could be introduced as soon as possible. However, if we are in such a hurry, I am sure that the law will actually make a lot of mistakes and that this law will not ultimately have the effect that it should have. A new law governs essential property and its provisions overlap in many ways with a new law of law. I've already discussed this before today. It is not necessary to write in a material provision certain articles of another law, but in practice this can often mean ambiguous interpretation. And I don't think that those articles of the law, which are recorded in the real law, need not be written in this housing law again in a slightly changed form, because in practice then it always leads to different interpretations; I also know that when I worked as an inspector, if the laws are not clearly written, if different interpretations are written in several places, then different interpretations occur. The law regulates property relations in common parts, but also regulates the management of multi-family buildings in a new way. In order to manage these buildings, the floor owners of the apartment building, which has more than two floor owners and more than eight apartments, must have an administrator and the manager may also be one of the top-level owners. I wonder whether any intervention in private property, that is, I would say, stipulates that the top-level owners - living in a block where there are sixteen of us top-level owners, so far as we know each other, we can agree on everything, and suddenly the law will prescribe that we should appoint a titler for our property, who will then manage this joint property by law. After all, we know that we must take care of our property, and after all, the inspection body envisaged by this law is the body that can charge us as owners with this or that correction of the deficiencies in our joint building. I do not know if this criterion of eight flats or two floor owners is the right criterion and the right condition for all owners to then, in such an essential property, designate an administrator or an authority to then register, and so on. Key owners shall adopt a maintenance plan and a mutual agreement. My dilemma in this is similar to the one before. As good neighbors, we have already made a plan of the work we are going to do at a joint meeting every year. However, we did not need mutual agreements as neighbours in the joint bloc. So, we know each other well, and I don't know why, under the same criteria for the whole of Slovenia for all buildings in the same way, to introduce some new bureaucracy, some new requirements and some legislation, which in practice works very well. This law also requires us to form a reserve fund under this law in the future. I'm sure that where residents live, these reserve funds have already been created. Where the tenants are not owners, there he is responsible for such a fund or for repairs and maintenance works on the building to care for the owner of such a multi-housing building. All right, then, here the legislator assumes that the fund is managed by the manager, so the owners can contribute and then the manager can manage these funds on the basis of some kind of annual programme. This is also a solution that may belong to a urban, Ljubljana environment where there are many owners living in a large multi-housing building; where multi-housing buildings with two top-level owners are, I don't think, unnecessary. One of the essential chapters of this law, which, in my opinion, does not belong to this law, but should be regulated in a special way, is a chapter that deals with the relationship between residents and owners in denationalised apartments. This law provides for rental contracts concluded between the returnee and the tenants, the previous holders of housing rights, and provides that they shall remain, after the return of the apartment to the beneficiary, all the rights which have been conferred on him since earlier. Moreover, the fact that the rent is non-profit and that such a beneficiary is in a denationalised flat in a preliminary right if the sale takes place. Furthermore, the law also contains the ratings or forms of subsidies to which the tenant is entitled in such an apartment if he decides to purchase or resolve his housing problem in such a way as to leave the owner of the denationalised apartment. The Minister said earlier that, I don't know, in ten years, 1,600 cases of residents in denationalised apartments have been resolved, but now that this law will be passed, 33% more money will be available, because subsidies will be reduced for rents, and that further 1,900 cases will be resolved; of course, he did not say within what time frame. So it is also a fundamental flaw in this law that it does not contain any time limit in which the ministry intends to resolve this dilemma. Whether it will be necessary for 1,600 cases solved by the government for ten, eleven years, it is said that it will need another fifteen years for another 1,900 cases, with 1,200 cases still pending. It would be interesting to know what the social structure of the people who reside in these apartments and who in all these years, with the ratings offered by the state, could not, or some, believe, did not want to solve their housing problem. Therefore, these provisions and these requirements should be in law, if this is already part of this law, more explicit and more binding. I think, once again, that these transitional provisions do not fall within this law at all and that this should be regulated in a specific law. Otherwise, on behalf of our Group of Members, I must say that the Association of Owners of Lighten Property is perfectly right when it claims that these tenants are still granted a non-profit lease without their assets being determined, their property censorship. So this directly in the absence of data suggests that some of these tenants are exploiting this former socialist system and still play our legislation in a way that does not actually allow these apartments to be owned by those who have also been taken from them. This law continues to ensure a permanent lease relationship and not only for those who are in it today, but also for all their successors, which is certainly incorrect, and this is also an extension of some feudal principle, which, under market economy conditions, is in no way sustainable, since owners are obliged to take care of these apartments as good hosts. So that's how the country should behave with its apartments. So this law actually places the owners in a position and imposes duties on them, while it does not prescribe this duty for the tenants, but mainly recognises them certain rights of a further indefinite permanent lease relationship. As far as the national housing programme is concerned, I think that in the Republic of Slovenia there is enough housing at the moment. The question is, of course, how these apartments are distributed among the population of our citizens and how they are distributed throughout Slovenia. Undoubtedly it is happening, I would say, one that I do not call it injustice, but that the wrong policy that most people today invest in urban housing, while the countryside is in some way neglected, and that such housing policy also makes the countryside quickly and abruptly empty and increases pressure on urban housing. Of course, this depends not only on housing policy, but also on all other policies, on policies in the field of health, education, social and non-governmental, whatever, the policies of coherent regional development, community development policies and so on are also said. So it is a round and multi-layered problem that the government should tackle in its entirety and realize, of course, as soon as possible, that if some areas in Slovenia become empty, they will never be able to settle again. In this sense, therefore, preventive action should be taken, as it will not be easy to act in a curative manner. Let me get this straight. We will support this bill's proposal, desiring that the comments made here today in this general debate take into account that the Ministry or the lawmaker listens to the fact that they are not able to notify the same solution for large cities and for rural areas to approach with a different approach, not to show any indication of ownership, but to recommend that they settle matters in such a way as to hold the owners responsible for such property and must also act and manage with property as good hosts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Igor Štemberger is supposed to be on the move, but he's not. He's quitting. Ivan Kebrič has the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, I'm afraid your secretary is missing, colleague and colleague. We have given this bill a lot of attention in the Democratic Party of Pensioners' parliamentary group. We have gathered, Mr Minister, a lot of comments, opinions and so on, and we have listened to everyone, with opinions and wishes and comments also set out, criticisms are diametrically opposite. However, we have drawn up a certain common position on this proposal ahead of us. It was published in the Rapporteur and we all had the opportunity to read and participate in various debates, such as these and others, and not to adopt them. Our basic principle is that it is imperative that we get a new housing law, since the old one was practically more or less intended for himself, but no longer suited to today’s opportunities. Essentially, what is at stake, Mr Minister, is that you have left the term'social housing' out of this law. You explained that this should be solved by local communities, only by their own powers and, of course, by their own views. And we're against it. For if we have enshrined in the Constitution in Article 2, that we are a social state, then we think from the bottom up and from the top down that the state must also regulate it socially. And do not let go of certain or other options that municipalities have, for you have passed on the possibility of subsidizing nonprofit flats as well. This housing law is needed, not only for the youngest generation, who are searching for their homes, to be able to make their own way, but I will tell you, dear Minister, that many older people, not only pensioners, but also other people still have unresolved housing problems, and do not tell me if they have not been able to solve them in so many years, how these problems are present for this generation today. It should be known that for certain housing problems older generations there are many reasons not only subjective but also objective as to how these housing conditions have occurred. I'm not going to go into criticism of the Jazbinski Act at the time, which was extremely unfair, if I mention only your statements, which you gave in the first page of your assessment of the introduction, that this law saved only 225 thousand of those tenants of social housing, but left at the side of 400,000 others who had such or other apartments, and did not receive anything from that law. The actual consequences are still felt today when we are discussing these opinions, expressed on the one hand by the owners of denationalised apartments on the other hand, while the tenants in these denationalised apartments. I have listened carefully to your introductory arguments as to how many problems these are still unresolved, but I believe that even after other records the numbers are slightly different. I agree with you where this country should now suddenly get so many billions that it will solve the unresolved problems of these denationalised tenants. The second is how we will approach the second reading, since this proposal for housing law has no less and no more than the 96 articles. If you do not take all these comments into account, I cannot imagine how the second reading will turn out when we have at least so many amendments, or at least half of the amendments as the law of the articles. Therefore, public debate and the rest could contribute to the improvement of the text to be prepared by the government or you, as the secretary of the department, for a second reading. We believe that there are so many well-founded, justifiable and reasoned comments that you have not yet taken into account, although I already have some text of coalition coordination, what you are prepared to accept or amend in the basic text for second reading. However, the basis that everyone has is only a draft law that was published in the Rapporteur, so I expected in your performance - but you have five more minutes to tell us how you will improve the text, which, as it is, is by no means acceptable to our group of Members and we will of course oppose such a text. Thank you very much so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u98	Thank you very much. These were the views of the groups of Members. My colleague, John Sponik, gave up the discussion. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Dr. Michael Brejc is absent, the next would be Miran Potrč, and he is absent, Aloise Sok would be next, and he is absent, Janez Podobnik - is absent. But Irma Pavlinič Krebs, who I give her my word, is present. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u99	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Members and Members of Parliament and Mr Minister! The proposal for housing law, which is now under discussion, reflects the part of the housing policy that we owe to the National Assembly, particularly the problems that the State has identified in this area and the extent to which such legislation is capable of solving. In fact, ownership relations, building management, assistance in the acquisition and use of housing, customer protection in the sale of new dwellings, inspection supervision, jurisdiction and tasks of the municipality and the country in this area, the Housing Chamber, the Housing Council, the Council for the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Catastrophe of Housing and Register - all of these are solutions offered by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as an upgrade to the existing situation, taking into account the problems that have arisen in these areas under the existing law. This is all well and well, and we can assess that the problems that arise in some areas are being adequately addressed by this new law. It is also undeniable that in the second reading, if we give the law support, that it is a suitable basis for a second reading, the State Assembly will be put to great test when we have heard some of the solutions that we have heard now when we present the views of the Members' groups, we have to incorporate into this law if we are to actually implement everything that has been said here today. The government will cooperate as soon as we assess that this law is a suitable basis, but we are the legislator and we will have to prepare solutions. Even if the parent working body assesses what many of you have proposed, it will be allowed, on the basis of a public debate on these issues, which may still be assessed as controversial, to present this public hearing, but only when we assess that the law is a suitable basis for second reading and, in fact, to put it into this procedure. In fact, I would like in this work, taking into account the solutions that this law brings, and taking into account the fact that housing is an important element of the social security and dignity of an individual, we may wish to point out that in the second reading we will have to define a couple of concepts as socially more friendly, perhaps the concept of suitable housing. Last but not least, I support the proposaler mainly in the news, in the way it redefines rent subsidies. It is undeniably necessary to say that, as long as we support the proposaler's solution, less-income tenants will pay much less than they have paid so far, at least 20% of the rent can. In fact, the current law has allowed the rent to be reduced to 50%. I think that this is an important contribution to this law if we want to follow the definition that housing is an important element of individual social security and dignity. Only that the state has to give him an adequate apartment, but if he is in a situation where he has lower incomes, we have to help him, the country and the congregation in combination, to live in this apartment, of course with adequate assistance, and this will now be bigger. This seems to me to be an important contribution to this marriage. However, I would also like to touch upon the issues raised at the previous item on the agenda, namely the consideration of the Ombudsman's report on the problem of tenants of denationalised dwellings. It is undeniable that all the findings that have been made to both categories are both owners who have become owners of these apartments following the decision of the administrative authority under the law on denationalisation, that they are being wronged and, on the other hand, the tenants that the State has also left in these apartments to be wronged. Regrettably, it is a constitutional court with its claim that it is not possible, I quote, "to establish the position that discrimination is against residents of nationalised and confiscated dwellings who cannot buy apartments," the National Assembly also put in some limited contexts how to solve the problem of two such conflict situations. The owners of denationalised apartments, which have been returned, have a perfectly legitimate right to claim from the State that they can actually use these apartments because in a decision and on the basis of the provisions of the denationalisation law, this right to property belongs to them. However, the tenants of denationalised dwellings were injured because they were unable to exercise this right of redemption under the privatisation law, the housing law, the so-called Yazbinski Law, and thus the privatisation of this apartment. With all the thinking and attempts to respond to the concerns rightly raised by the Ombudsman, after reviewing the solutions offered by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I was able to partly answer the question that solutions are. I can't agree with the guardian here that they're not saving anything at all. They're better. They are better, but they certainly do not fully address this issue. In fact, in all my efforts, I can't imagine how we could fully solve this problem, that is, both the rights they legitimately set for each other, one to live forever and also to continue, for family members, the enjoyment of this apartment, under conditions that have been reduced to them in one way or another during a period of time, and the other to their property rights. In fact, it is also possible to expect from our side of these people, of course, a patient attitude towards their relationship and, in the context of the solutions offered in part by the Housing Act in Chapter 18, to consider, in the second reading, even greater material stimulation for a real solution to this problem. The fact that the government has retained conditional, alternative privatisation from the previous law and upgraded it by increasing the material incentive is also a response to the Ombudsman’s proposal for a solution in point 1. That is to say, we must try to solve the problem in real terms, with higher tenants' subsidies when buying another apartment or with more expensive material incentives. The undisputed proponent increases stimulation. Whether it increases sufficiently, I think it will be the subject of a second-reading debate. Of course, the news is also an opportunity for the tenant to have the right to credit even if he is buying the apartment he is staying in. So far, this option has not been available, nor has it been new, the possibility that tenants who do not want or can not buy another apartment but want to empty a denationalized apartment can apply for a non-profit apartment. These are improvements from the arrangements in the previous law. The second-reading evaluation will be whether we can realistically solve the problem sufficiently, whether it is worth making an even greater effort to stimulate. Other points referred to by the Ombudsman also improve the position of tenants in these apartments. I think that our efforts at second reading will have to go in the direction of trying even more carefully to assess whether we are solving this problem sufficiently. I will personally support the law as a suitable basis for second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Janez Cimperman would be next, but he's not here. Leopold Grošelj has some time left if he wants to discuss - and at this point he is cancelling, and so is Pavel Rupar. That's how we drained the reported debaters. But it's still available, so I'll keep saying the word. First, I'd like to ask who else wants to discuss it. Since many issues and dilemmas have been raised, I would first like to give the Minister the floor to intervene in the debate and explain certain things and then to the other discussers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Some of the questions have been specifically raised, which I would like to answer in the context of the five minutes available to me, by the way. First of all, I would like to say thank you for all the suggestions that have been made in the debate. While we have been warned about many of the debates that have taken place in the public, we are actually preparing additions to the second reading, which are likely to be the number of revisions to the articles as many as possible. There is also some justification for this in that this bill was proposed to Parliament last July and there was also a real law code at the hearing, and we did not know which one would be adopted earlier. Well, now that the real law has been passed, much overlaps with housing law, and all the things that are set out in the real law now need to be corrected by the amendment in the housing law or articles. This will require quite a few corrections. There's been a few words about why we're in a hurry to adopt the law. The law has been in the procedure since July last year, and in fact there has been some kind of public hearing. It was discussed very thoroughly at the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, in the company of tenants of denationalised apartments and in a number of other institutions or forums, and they also communicated their comments to us and we replied back. This communication has been very intensive and has also cleared up a number of things through it, in the form of certain amendments. It was obvious that the marriage was too focused on the situation in Ljubljana. I must strongly deny that. Of course, the law tries to regulate matter abstractly, as it is customary for marriage, at the level of the whole country. Indeed, he has the opportunity to intervene in housing policy by the congregation. Ljubljana probably has a different intervention than any municipality on the other side of Slovenia, by determining the percentage of the rent based on the location at the amount of the non-profit rent. One of the comments was why you stopped the notion of social housing. This is bad because we still have a lot of social problems. I have to answer quite clearly, no doubt. We still have the concept of social housing in marriage. We just erased the difference between social and non-profit housing. You could say that all non-profit housing has become social and vice versa, all social housing has become non-profit, as far as the law is concerned. We decided to dictate a non-profit apartment because it might seem unusual for someone to be dictated because the word is unprofitably more neutral. But we could also use a social housing dictatorship. The content is important. We have established a uniform way of designing rents and a uniform way of subsidising these rents for all those who are more economically weak. This division of social and non-profits has been artificial, has caused a number of problems and has caused the municipalities that have even gone to solve these housing problems of their citizens to build non-profit dwellings. Social services haven't been built in years. This law, I am sure, will also create a renaissance of social housing. One of the comments went in the direction of why social policy is now a matter for the congregation to take care of. This law does not in any way constitute new obligations for municipalities, nor new financial obligations or new procedural obligations, which would constitute a substantially increased volume of work. I can say that in a number of cases, in my opinion, it reduces this amount of work that has been done so far with this strange policy of four different types of non-profit or social rentals, which virtually no one else could accompany, except great experts. The proposal for a law was said to provide for an unnecessary pre-emptive right of the housing fund. It was a misunderstanding. That's certain, I think it's in 167. Only a preliminary right of the tenant of the former landlord and if he does not enforce it, he now writes, and the municipality or state housing fund has it. That's what only those apartments are for, not all the apartments in general. However, it was based on the desire to maintain the maximum size of the rentable housing fund, which is of course a major problem for Slovenia, because, according to other European countries, there are not enough ownership apartments, and that is why so-called normal housing careers cannot be developed, where someone, a young family begins in a rental apartment and then a slightly larger rental apartment and then ends up landing in a property apartment. That's how it's done in other countries. But with us, this process is disrupted because there's not enough renting apartments. Maybe there'll be another discussion, and if I have a chance, I'll come up with something else. But again, thank you for your comments. We are preparing a series of amendments, and I am sure that we will solve a number of these dilemmas properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u102	Thank you. I would now give additional panellists, for the time being, in the first round of five minutes. Mag. You little rascal, you can start the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u103	Thank you very much for saying this extra time so I can talk to you about the housing law. The housing law is, of course, the result of some professional efforts. There is no way to challenge this, and in many ways I agree that it interferes with a sphere that has not been well regulated. In the New Slovenia Group, as well as ourselves, we do not advocate too much interference in property relations. We have to be careful here. People aren't even stupid, they're smart, they're smart, they can take care of their property. What is possible because it causes so many problems in the maintenance of dwellings is insolvent construction and non-distribution of costs. I too come to the parliamentary group to determine how to determine heating, so, otherwise, water, consumption, all things, whether bills are left or not. In short, some unimaginable construction that has been done in the past has caused a lot of nerves and disputes between owners. We know that. This is one such area that we will have the opportunity to resolve for a number of years. The other is certainly what we have touched in the previous item of the agenda, the regulation of relations in dwellings taken under the regulations on maintenance. I still argue that tenants in these apartments have no right to redemption because they were in the same positions as those in the grey market, if we say so, to the private owners of the apartments that gave someone their apartments. But they are certainly entitled to housing rights and to a good solution to housing rights. The state is obliged to do much more here because it itself has caused this situation. So this is not the starting point, because if we take this into account, the right to redemption, then we have to take into account all the other 100,000 citizens who did not have the right to this nice ransom. And another one. Therefore, housing rights are not comparable to property rights in this case, because they are not appropriate, not comparable. It is, however, how to treat persons in such a situation on one side of the tenants and owners. Once again, they need to be addressed in terms of the constitutional right to housing. Because these people who are in these denationalized apartments live inside, I don't know how they're paying this rent now. I think that there are disputes between owners that would impose an economic rent or a market price and the desire of tenants to pay, I don't know, social or non-economically or I don't know what kind of rent. However, only those who do not have housing rights under these criteria and do not have property, do not have a house, do not have an apartment. And this provision stems from some quasi-proprietary right to redemption. And that's not right. The State is not obliged to provide because it will break relations with those who have received nothing or those who are now either in barracks or on the black market and pay a high rent. For the state must treat the same. That's the tricky part. And I suggest that the legislator fix this with criteria for those who don't have this or this apartment or house or something. It may be everyone, but it's the principle of universalism that makes it necessary to do so. Even to avoid any problems addressed to other citizens, why certain categories of people are allowed such a way, such access, which is not in the context of the provision of housing rights directly because they would urgently need it. For our constitution also says that every man first secures himself with his own work, with his own property of this thing. Why, however, would the state provide something that is a suffix, a surplus of what other citizens have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Now I give the floor to Ivan Kebrich and then to Leopold Grošl.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! You said, non-profit rental or non-profit housing, or social housing, one or the other, in one form or another. We know who just went across the border and sees a board in the cities of a certain building called "municipal dwellings". Well, let's just leave it. Essentially, what you've said is that you've already talked to a lot of people, and you've taken into account a lot of things, but you've complicated things for us. We've only got what we've got in front of us. And this is the rapporteur. We are discussing the definitions set out in the rapporteur in this proposal. If you have negotiated, you have taken much into account from the circles you have spoken with, then it would be right to withdraw this proposal and write a new one, but there would be much less debate and probably much less amendments for the second reading. For we will be able to make amendments in a second reading, if this proposal is adopted today, only on the definitions and articles as they are written in the Rapporteur and nothing else. But since I've had a good two minutes at my disposal since then, and since there's still time, I'm going to read you something else that I've recorded. The issue of floor property - the provisions are the same as in the real law code, but the new version you mentioned is leaking. With regard to the exclusion action, he would point out that it would be good to include that, in the event that an on-the-spotting debt is incurred by an on-the-spotting owner, he does not therefore offset management costs and other costs under Article 33 and is also punishable under Article 165 of the proposal, in relation to the level of property above a certain threshold, the co-owners have the opportunity to force him to sell the apartment and move. According to the existing proposal, there is a reason to exclude a grave breach of the basic rules of neighbourly co-existence or obligations under the mutual agreement [[123rd Article of the Real Law Code]] . It is difficult to identify grave infringements and, according to the existing proposal, judicial practice will have to be defined. Tell me how you're gonna force someone to sell the apartment if the market price is bad for them and where to move. This is a question, absolutely, I will not say theoretically, this is a practical question. I would add that we do not agree with the proposed solutions in the existing draft Articles 170 to 176. We propose that a possible and more acceptable solution be reconsidered, both for denationalisers, beneficiaries and for previous holders of housing rights, tenants in such apartments. We estimate that the subsidy in the current proposal is inadequate, but I will not continue to mention it. Allow me just one final paragraph. We would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill does not specify exactly how the management of a multi-housing building is carried out in the event that an essential owner is among others a municipality. Whoever represents it in this case and how it is stated in Article 46 of the proposal that municipalities, state and public housing funds and non-profit housing organisations are not obliged to pay to reserve funds designed for a single multi-family building where they own an apartment if they inform the manager of the accompanying documents, in so far as they form their reserve funds. We believe that such a doctrine is too little and it would be worth considering how to define it differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u106	Thank you. Leopold Groschel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u107	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much for your words. I think it is necessary to commend the leadership of the National Assembly that the bill, I am talking about housing law, has also been sent to all local communities. Regrettably, the time frame for comments on this first hearing was 28th, but nevertheless, I think that some of the local communities will send their views in due time, so that we will try, of course, also through Members to install this for a second reading. By the way, why did I stop by? In particular, I have come to the attention that this 1991 housing law, which, of course, then also laid down this legal basis for the abolition of this social property in the residential area, and also this transition from this legal regime of the housing right to the rental relationship, will not lead to a long and wide discussion, i.e. what caused it? It has caused this privatisation to take place in a very different way and there has also been a significant deviation, particularly in those local communities that had a greater share of rented social housing and inherited houses, or from the level-of-the-art properties. Indeed, in the end, this result of privatisation brought about the fact that better or suitable apartments were purchased, of course, could also have been marketed by law, while rental apartments which remained were mostly then defined as social or partly as non-profit. The privatisation process has also brought about the fact that the companies that owned these apartments, that, of course, those who found the buyers to sell them, have kept them as much as they were suitable for the apartment as they were for the apartment, and they still have them now, but this is mostly decided by the director of this company and, of course, they are not prepared to resolve these policies together with the congregation. In fact, because those apartments, which were inappropriate, were somehow granted the status of social housing, were abandoned by local communities and had to be taken over by the municipalities, even though they were totally inappropriate for this municipal fund. In fact, almost nothing has been invested in these apartments in the past in the so-called investment maintenance of these apartments, so as to take over the function of social housing, which was neither suitable nor qualified for adequate housing. I would, because I'm just running out of time, five minutes is very short, maybe I'd point out some other, I'd say, these views, when I'm considering this proposal for a housing law. A number of questions are also raised, such as how to replace old inappropriate dwellings that have been created mainly in industrial areas. In today's debate, Mr Barovic raised this issue, specifically from the municipality of Trbovelj. In fact, I can point out, of course, this area is in Hrastnik, where it was created, as we say, a species of these so-called colonies. These were made of glass, chemical, not so much from the mine, where these things sort of settled and were built hundreds or more years ago and are completely inappropriate to stay. In this immediate vicinity of two companies, which are in Hrastnik, glass and chemical, such apartments are, say, 108 in a total area of around 4. 100 square meters. And now questions are being asked about how the local community, with its own resources, should try to resolve these issues in a suitable way, so that these apartments can also take over part of the function so that they are suitable for housing. We took advantage of the opportunity to expose this when, of course, we are considering housing law. Since the other options under which they seek to be provided, I would say, through the funding of the congregation, were in the past, or now, most often, I would say, inappropriate. So that the problem remains, even the national housing programme has not experienced, I would say, its impact. Of course, the effect is most often, I would say, in a place where local communities are not granted sufficient funding through appropriate spending, even for such things as I think they will have to be resolved sooner or later in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u108	Thank you. And Marko Diaci. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! I personally consider that the law is a suitable basis for further consideration, but at the same time, in view of the comments that have been made - I will not repeat them - I believe that it will have to be supplemented in many ways. Nor does it solve the underlying problem. This is a lack of housing especially for young families and only these. For example, housing prices in Ljubljana can be compared with prices in European capitals without shame. These prices are slowly rising along the country with every km of highway, that is a fact, prices are also rising away from Ljubljana. So the solution is to build these and increase the capacity of rental apartments, as Mr Minister has said nicely. There is a surplus of supply and demand. The national housing savings scheme will, in my view, only deepen these problems if there is no increased supply. And that's where the gas will have to be added. At the same time, I would like to refer to Mr Grošlj's words, which have already been mentioned by the local communities. There are numerous references to congregations or local communities in the law. According to the law on local self-government, it is also possible to give an opinion on any matter that affects them. I wonder if any opinion has been given to the community or to associations of congregations or to any other local community. That would be a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u110	Thank you. Minister, you want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u111	For a short period of time, two questions were raised by at least three speakers. As far as the reserve fund is concerned, we have foreseen an obligation to pay it to all co-owners. Only then did we make an exception for the country and for the congregations, because the country and the congregation are large coowners of dwellings or owners of many dwellings. This would mean a significant liquidity outflow of money from the municipal or state budget, but there is really no need for this because the reserve fund is made for those cases where investment expenditure will be slightly higher and then the owners will not be willing to give a little more of themselves and then, of course, you need a reserve fund to reach out to it. The municipalities and the state have their budgets, they have no liquidity problems, and it is therefore inappropriate for them to split up in advance into a specific fund, since, after all, such a fund can be a municipal or state budget or performs the same functions. The second question, which I will never be able to fully answer, is the lack of funds to rebuild social and non-profit housing owned by the municipalities. Here, of course, the amounts of appropriate consumption are provided, appropriate consumption is also accounted for by taking these needs into account, and it is clear that on some national average - in some congregations problems are greater, for example in Hrastnik, on which others are smaller, the average is always the problem. Well, the fact is, at national level, we have already decided on a different policy since I was a minister, and this is the investment activity policy of the Housing Fund. We decided to go alone, together with the congregations, to build nonprofit apartments. Previously, the housing fund was just lending housing, lending loans to citizens, lending municipal housing funds, and now it's building itself. In cooperation with the municipalities we are building this instant, these are open construction sites for around 730 non-profit apartments across Slovenia I am talking only about small municipalities, Ljubljana, Maribor and Koper have a special arrangement or no projects prepared, like other smaller municipalities. However, of course, there is not enough resources to enable an investment or co-investor fund to address all such pressing problems. Of course, we will try to ensure this as much as possible in advance. But this is more a problem of implementing housing policy, without having to deal with some article of housing law, where things would have been written like that and would have worked in one way or another. It's just a matter of performance. The mechanisms for this are set up, and this is of course the most important in the debate on the content of housing law. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u112	Thank you very much. This allows us to conclude a debate on this item on the agenda. Thank you to the Minister and to the co-worker of the government and to you for your discussion. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today at 19.40 a.m. in accordance with the meeting's timetable. I'm breaking this agenda. I inform you that we will continue to work at 4:30 p.m. with the 18th item of the agenda, and this is the interim report of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to identify the background and causes of the attack on journalist Mir Petk and the possible involvement and political responsibilities of the holders of public functions. For this you have received confidential material and the meeting will be held without the presence of the public. Until then, I'm taking a break. Thank you. [[The meeting was suspended at 4:10 p.m. and resumed at 6:38 p.m.]] In due course, the session was shut down.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u113	Your Honor! We're moving on to 19. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE POLITICAL PROTECTION IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. The report was submitted for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the text to a representative or a representative of the Government for further explanation of the proposed report. Mrs Bojana Globačnik, Counsellor of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Persons with Disabilities and Patients. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam President or President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The report on the implementation of disability protection prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for disabled persons and patients covers the period from 1999 to Wednesday 2001. The contents of the report were the concept of the 1991 Disability Protection Development Strategy adopted by the National Assembly, the standard rules for the equalization of disabled persons and the assessment of the development of disability according to the 1995 standard rules drawn up by the Office. We have also taken into account the European Union's recommendations on employment, social policy and education. The content of the report covers all basic areas of life and work of disabled persons and children and adolescents with special needs. The methodological report consists of a solid basis for the preparation of an action plan for disabled persons or a national programme for the protection of disabled persons in Slovenia. It thus provides the basis for the annual preparation of reports and enables the performance of individual tasks to be evaluated. In addition to the responses of the competent services and ministries that provided a description of the situation, an overview of the current tasks and a description of the measures taken to address architectural and communication barriers, disability organisations also participated in the drafting of the report. In the first place, the report showed the following weaknesses. In the country we use an outdated method of assessing disability. The number of services offered locally by this group of citizens is very weak and the transition from education to employment training is still very volatile. Therefore, the Government has already adopted certain measures to address these shortcomings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The report was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. I ask the President, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I welcome the government and all of you here! The draft report or this report was considered at the 11th regular meeting on 17.10.2001 by the National Labour Committee, the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. The report was presented to the members of the committee as today by Mrs Bojana Globačnik, although in a somewhat broader version than it was today, but, of course, according to the above, the debate between the members of the committee was quite intense. We also took note of the opinion of the Council of State presented at the meeting by the representative of the Council of State, Mr Boris Šuštaršič. He estimated that the report was methodologically well prepared and that it provided the content of disability protection in the Republic of Slovenia in a transparent and professional manner. The main problem in his opinion is that we do not have an integrated disability policy in our country. It was pointed out in the debate that for several years it has been necessary to draw up certain laws which are a fundamental condition for the quality of the implementation of disability protection, including the Law on the Training and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and other difficult to employ, the Law on Disability and Humanitarian Organisations, the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, the International Classification of Disability and Others. It has been pointed out that our country does not yet have a clear objective of what to do with social transfers, because they often do not reduce social differences, but only make life easier for some categories of people and enable them to integrate. Data are also alarming that the proportion of people with disabilities in the structure of the unemployed is already more than 15%, and findings of a significant decline in the employment of persons with disabilities. An interdisciplinary approach is needed to address the employment and training of persons with disabilities; the possibilities for regulating the legal basis for the right to accompany the blind, the system of tailored communication for deaf persons in the school system, accessibility to facilities, services, information and communication should be explored. The discussion below also mentioned the issue of the area of grants and grants and the comments that the current regime is not satisfactory and prevents non-governmental, non-profit organisations from receiving a greater flow of urgently needed funds. After the discussion, the Committee adopted a decision proposing that the State assembly should adopt the following decision after the hearing: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, when preparing legislation on disability protection to the maximum extent possible, to take into account the professional and substantive comments contained in the report on the implementation of disability protection in the Republic of Slovenia." The Committee also proposes to the National Assembly a number of additional decisions to be taken. By saying that since the submission of the report on the implementation of disability protection and the examination of this report on the working body until today, the treatment on the plenary has been under way for quite some time and has, in the meantime, been considered and adopted both the proposal for a law or law on disability organisations and the law on the Slovenian sign language. Therefore, it is certain that the first proposal for an additional decision in those additional decisions in the report is irrelevant. The Committee has also drawn up a decision which it has forwarded to the Ministry of Finance proposing to the Ministry of Finance to examine the possibility of including amendments and additions to the rules on the implementation of value added tax among lower-rate aids, which is an 8% tax rate, including technical aids for blind and visually impaired persons with which they achieve a satisfactory rehabilitation effect in overcoming communication and movement barriers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u118	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here! In view of the latest developments and the hot debates also within the competent home committee of the National Assembly, which I am also a member of, we have taken a united position in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, namely that disability protection in Slovenia is not yet professionally regulated. The fact that large holes remain in the system itself also shows the report on the implementation of disability protection in the Republic of Slovenia. Among the priorities of the competent government services in regulating disability care, we believe that it should be addressed more comprehensively or in an integrated manner. In this context, there is a global and fair definition of the rights of all persons with disabilities. From this point of view, we also welcome the preparation of an appropriate law on the integration of persons with disabilities. However, the employment of disabled people is certainly among the most pressing problems. This area is poorly regulated, and despite the fact that employment in general, globally at the level of the whole of Slovenia, is not an area of concern. The data that unemployment among people with disabilities is increasing strongly and that in 2000 almost 16% of people with disabilities were already unemployed is sufficiently eloquent. Inadequately regulated, unclear and unspecified are also certain rights or benefits resulting from the type and degree of disability. Let me mention here the right to accompany the blind, as the President himself has already mentioned, access to facilities, means of information, communication and so on. Before I conclude, I would like to draw attention, among other things, to another weakness, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, which is insufficient supervision of work, particularly of the use of the resources of various disability organisations and societies and within this allocated money in view of the actual programmes and needs. We are confident that government services in the future will also try to remedy the most pressing shortcomings in the welfare of some more than 150,000 disabled people through the preparation of appropriate laws. We will therefore not oppose the report in the SNS Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! I find it kind of comical to consider a report that's almost two years old - I don't know. Also consider additional Committee decisions, which are also almost two years old, since they were adopted on 17 October 2001. However, the report was printed in the Rapporteur on 4 July 2001. Well, this is an opportunity to look at something special in this report. That is, in the additional conclusions of our committee from that year 2001 it was said that the State Assembly should submit a proposal for a law on disability organisations as soon as possible. That's great. It was done, the law was passed. Secondly, the Committee has proposed to the Government that it do its utmost to draw up a new system law on the employment and training of persons with disabilities within three months. We've been waiting for two years, draft nowhere, prepared by Petty Officer, removed him, draft government nowhere. In the meantime, the international organisation of work in Convention 159, and in Recommendation 168, already requested, in this Convention on Vocational Rehabilitation of the Employment of Persons with Disabilities, in order to face this problem. We are not from 1983 to 2001 and continue and continue. Meanwhile, the number of unemployed people with disabilities is growing dramatically, which is the problem. Ten years ago there were about a thousand, two years ago there were 16,000, and today there are some 20,000 unemployed. This is about 20 and 18% of the disabled are unemployed. However, considering those who could be employed, more than 50% of them are unemployed. More than 50% of working disabled people. Tons of good. I do not speak for the interests of the economy, I speak for the sake of the quality of their lives. Furthermore, under point 3, the Committee has proposed to proceed as soon as possible with the preparation of the law on humanitarian organisations, and we are back to where we are. This was two years ago, and after two years this year, we have twice had Mr Drobnik's proposal on humanitarian organisations, which wanted to challenge the government in order to approach it. The Minister of Health is responsible, of course, for tobacco laws, the Prohibition Act on Alcohol and the like. But the humanitarian organizations are waiting. They're waiting for funding, regulating their relationship with Fiho and stuff. Furthermore, the law on the rehabilitation of the blind and the visually impaired, the law on the integration of persons with disabilities, the equalization of opportunities - see, this law was provided for under the Commission of the European Union, which adopted a resolution on equal opportunities for persons with disabilities in 1997. In '97. The year before, in 1996, the European Social Charter was adopted, which we ratified in 1999, where we committed ourselves to ensuring the right of persons with disabilities to independent life, social inclusion and participation in living communities. But our system of attitude towards people with disabilities, as has been shown in the adoption of the law on disability organisations, goes the other way, creating new ghettos for people with disabilities. It's not going in the integration system, it's going in the integration system, it's going in a completely different direction. These laws, which would open a few doors to these demands, of course remain far behind. So, let me get on with it. Here the government has also been called upon to prepare a law on the treatment of children with special needs as soon as possible and then again, under point 5, to require a single register of persons with disabilities, that is to say, where the Committee has proposed that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to examine the possibility of regulating a single register showing the number of persons with disabilities, the occurrence of defects and the type and extent of rights and facilitations. Gentlemen, here in this place we have fought for amendments that would allow this in the Disability Organizations Act, amendments that would allow us to create this register. You have adopted a rejection of these amendments, so there is no way today that this committee's request, which was written on the basis of the report, will be met in any way. We won't have a single registry for much longer. And, of course, our relationship with people with disabilities and the regulation of these relations will be far beyond European standards. The Committee spoke about a national programme for the protection of persons with disabilities. He's nowhere. He was talking about the international classification of disability and health. This international classification, this is a list of defects and obstacles, but it is of paramount importance, because without this list, entire groups of people with disabilities are excluded from the treatment of disability. They don't get invalid all those, from receipts, supplements, invalidity pensions or anything like that because they're not in their old register. You know that in the twenty years we have also received a number of new diseases, a number of new lists of defects and, of course, the disabled are short-lived. I must say that, as far as this register is concerned, the register was already adopted in 1987, and we only translated it in 1997, I think not in 1980, the first register in Europe was adopted by these physical defects, disability, classification of disability. We were able to translate in 17 years that register in 1997. A new register, a new classification, I hope it will be done at least a year earlier. Further, let me mention the matter here: the Council of Europe's Bioethics Committee has adopted a document on mental health, which is also mentioned here in the report. The report merely states: The content of the document is already summarised in the Slovenian proposal for a law on hospital protection and protection of mental health rights. This was written two years ago, and I don't know anything that would move, but again, there's a group of patients because of our own, I'd say the lack of commitment to solving these problems has been neglected. To conclude, let me just read what is happening on 17.10.2001 when our committee has considered this report, said the Ministry's representative, Mrs Tutto. This is what she said, 17 October 2001: "Today at 11 o'clock we have a project council for the training and employment of persons with disabilities and will address the first issues of the new law on the training and employment of persons with disabilities. So we expect that within three months, for example, the law will be ready for the first reading. The Law on Equalization of Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities is also prepared for thesis. So both things are actually moving and I hope that at least the law on training, hiring people with disabilities, will be on sent-off benches within a few months." That's what the Ministry said back in 2001. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be moved by Mrs Silva Montenegro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Well-known representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we are somewhat late to consider the report on the implementation of disability protection in the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its 31st meeting on 7 June 2001 and presented the implementation of the decisions of the National Assembly of 29.03.2000 adopted at the time of consideration of the National Social Protection Programme by 2005. This report shows very comprehensively and clearly on nearly 80 pages the issue of the implementation of disability protection in the Republic of Slovenia, which is extremely difficult in view of its complexity and overexercision with other activities. It shows clearly the state of the social situation and the role of persons with disabilities, the state of disability protection and the effectiveness of its implementation, the exceptional progress made in this area, and very clearly defines the priorities on which it creates the starting points for the action plan. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we have highlighted in particular well-organised training for people with disabilities and education as it appears in a very developed network in which the situation of families with children in institutional care and those with disabled family members is gradually being levelled. There has been an increase in the number of housing communities, where young people with disabilities in particular are involved. It is very commendable and encouraging to involve children and adolescents with special needs and with disabilities in regular forms of education. Therefore, in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, we believe that such forms should be continued and even promoted. Of course, it is particularly important to stress that this area of funding needs to be systematically and systematically regulated, in particular for the financing of transport for children and adolescents at both the pre-school and secondary levels. However, students with disabilities need to be provided with care and other services during the study. In view of the lack of functioning of certain departments within the framework of basic health, which should cover the whole country, all efforts should be supported to prepare and adopt that part of the legislation or the legal basis for the early treatment of young children with special needs. These priorities should also include regional regulation and approach in the provision of dental services in anesthesia for people with severe and severe mental impairment. For Members of the United List of Social Democrats, the employment of persons with disabilities is particularly important, for which favourable legal bases are to be prepared. However, our concern is due in particular to the poor effective exercise of this right of persons with disabilities to work in practice. Unfortunately, the proportion of people with disabilities in the unemployment structure is already more than 15%, but in particular we are concerned about the deterioration of working conditions and also the increasing violations of labour law, which we find difficult to sanction. In particular, we are pleased with the fact that, in the report, we have an important role to play in complementing the public network of programmes and services for people with disabilities and that civil society plays a very large role in this segment. The State has made progress in strengthening the public sector, and the status and role of disabled organisations has been defined in the Disability Organisations Act and in the law on the use of the Slovenian Sign Language and has in one way implemented some of the necessary matters. With regard to the Law on the Training and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, it could be concluded that in fact the government is not stalling almost anything in this area and is preparing some systemic solutions. The law, which would have been enacted consistently to legislate a consistent policy of implementing measures in the field of employment of persons with disabilities - is the only thing that would have led to the proposal of a law put into the procedure by Member Drobni - would have been very little regulated or done to address this problem in the field of employment. That is why I think it is so important that we do and find out the situation and on this basis also prepare a programme of training and employment for people with disabilities in the Republic of Slovenia by the year 2000. Especially [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Good. [[...]] Thank you very much. I just wanted to say that we had high-level visits to the National Assembly and the Council of State, which, however, very favourably assessed the functioning of this area in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u124	Good evening, everyone! New Slovenia's position on the report on the implementation of disability protection in the Republic of Slovenia. As I have already been told, this report is of course not the most up-to-date, but from it it can be understood what Slovenia has in its repertoire to ensure the integration of persons with disabilities into society, modern society, transition society or whatever we call it. They say that society or the state learns how it treats those who somehow find themselves on the edge of society. I am sure that disabled persons are also the same category of persons who are often, for various reasons, personal, subjective, i.e. because of the part of incompetence, disability or lack of respect for society, but because of the fact that their differences are not ensured, they do not play an appropriate role in society. The policy of disability protection in Slovenia may be too adapted to a system that is no longer in place. Most measures in any area or, we can say, housing, employment, education are still largely based on this. Unfortunately, the situation has changed and the situation of this category should therefore be ensured by other effects and adapted to modern plural democratic, market-driven society. And what are the key objectives that should be pursued: raising society's awareness of the sense of social engagement for standardisation and ensuring integration. We see too many social impacts in all this effort, just some state consumption, only some social transfers, but we do not see enough that this, professional rehabilitation or rehabilitation in general, is an extremely important economic aspect, a macro-economic and individual economic aspect for each individual. Some of the problems that people with disabilities face with us have been many things already mentioned, so I will not repeat things, but I may point out something that, in our opinion, appears to be an argument or a key reason to see the problem more easily. It treats unequally in terms of accessibility, distribution of various services, institutions, assistance for any disabled person in such a situation. They must be in a better position in larger centres than on the periphery. So, this exam the Republic of Slovenia did not do well. Poorly developed third sector. In the 12 years following the introduction of a democratic society, marketed, socialised companies could, of course, have a better third sector in Slovenia if there was a preference for national regulation and the promotion of the institutions to build this third sector. Intransparency of social transfers and large differences in transfers. The evaluation of the employability or ability or ability to work has previously been mentioned. This is an extremely important element, which is a key basis for the creation of a fair social transfer of the country. This has not been done, so the differences in taxes only in the disability area are smooth at 1:15. What the President of the Commission has already mentioned increases social disparities in some cases. The competent state authorities or some analytical services have not done so. These analyses of the impact of social transfers in the field of disabled persons. Some of the experiments started in 98, this also refers somehow to the decision submitted by the parent committee to prepare an analysis of the level of rights of individual categories. This was started four years ago, but there was no significant consideration. Ad hoc established criteria for the distribution of services and state aid. It is precisely for this reason that some social transfers make no sense, are illogical and not only increase these social differences, but in people they give rise to serious concerns about the fundamental justice of this society, when the employment of the disabled is said to be rapidly increasing unemployment. We are meeting with some phenomenon in Slovenia about a rapid increase in unemployment. On the other hand, we have one of the most protective laws for people with disabilities. What's actually going on? A phenomenon, a contradiction. I have warned many times, not only in the National Assembly, even before I professionally dealt with these things, that if you put very rigidly or impose on employers obligations that are difficult to meet and are illogical, they are unreal, in some sense these things will come back to you negatively at another level. And this is now coming back right through the very poor employment of the unemployed. So, re-entering employment. That's what's wrong. I have repeatedly warned, deregulation of the labour market and encouraged through active employment policy measures, entry into employment and transfer of responsibilities from employers to the country. If this were to be encouraged, there would be significantly more people in employment, i.e. the largely disabled employees. Employment of these persons is an economic category. If you look at the documents of the European Union, you will see that it is now focusing not only on hiring a category of disabled people, but also older, old people to help them with technology, by additional training to re-enter the labour market. For economic reasons, for demographic reasons, because Europe does not have a workforce. It is much better, easier and for economic reasons and social reasons to train these categories to re-enter the labour market. Or other instruments may be developed, other means of employment under special conditions that reflect the needs of these categories more clearly. Vocational rehabilitation and training are largely, too out of action. I asked questions, I think Monday, Minister, why integration into active employment, training and education policies has fallen so much. Why? Where are the reasons? Is that money? Indeed, this government declares education and knowledge to be the wedding for the future of Slovenia. On the other hand, it works differently with some measures. Do these programs make no sense? Then what's the money about? What are they going to use them for? If we wanted and wanted to hire these 20,000 and more, I think that there are already more than 20,000 unemployed people, we would have spent 20 years just for this category to hire them all, because only 1,000 of them are employed from the unemployment register every year. So, 20 years. This did not take into account the new influx that would come into unemployment, either because of bankruptcy or because of the new categories coming from the school system. This is a serious question, not just for the minister, but for all of us. How do we respond to this problem? We're hiding him now, but he's showing up, he's showing up lately, and he's gonna show up a lot more. Why? Because the disability rights of the new year are considerably reduced and will undermine the socio-economic stability of this category. Deregulation of the labour market, we will have to take this seriously. But don't get me wrong about making a wild market, encouraging more to deregulation, reducing those obstacles. Report and additional conclusions, I don't know how current these conclusions are, they're a little out of date, they have a beard, "propose a law on disability organisations". Okay, that's what we did. The Employment and Training of Persons with Disabilities Act. I filed a slightly differently-addressed law, the law on the promotion of the employment of people with disabilities. The Chamber of Commerce sent an opinion. But, I tell you, I'm concerned about the thinking of the Chamber of Commerce because they didn't read the bill well and they wrote something they didn't hold back and they cheated on it. The law is modern - day and should be respected. I'm not jealous of this marriage. I'm the reason he can take that away. Only, first let the government prepare its, after three months of 2001, said it would prepare it. But that's what we should have done five years ago, because that's when I was actually doing this myself. There was no enthusiasm. It's about a single disability registry. For the purposes of funding from the foundation, this register might even be placed and useful, but from the point of view of the disabled, I think it is wrong - a register with some cards. This has been tried, I think in some other European countries, but they have abandoned it. He's already wearing too much of the title "disability" stamp. And I would not like to be, and in New Slovenia we would not like to be the ones to highlight this seal. We are more in favour of normalisation, but we are in favour of enforcement of incentives. International classification, we've already heard that, so there's no need for that. Disability training and employment programme. In 2002, there was a programme that I could say was in preparation. The realisation is more egregious, it's a dig. I expect the programme to be ready from 2003 onwards, and I don't know when it will be. This is what we ask in the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Government, and if he thinks about it. One more question, introducing new technologies. The introduction of new technologies in the field of disability is too weak, is not encouraged by the State, is under-awareness, and perhaps also by the civil sphere, which has recently been more likely to advocate social transfers, and less for this form of assistance, including by employers. So, we don't have anything, I don't know, to object or anything, we'll probably confirm it, but we're interested in what's actually going to change, not in some declarations or in programs written on paper, but in reality, to ensure equal opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ivan Kebrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u126	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear representatives of the government or the ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group, when we examined this report, we were before the same fact that the report was obsolete. However, the proposals in this report, at least specified, are still up to date. On the other hand, we are devoting ourselves as a human society, or at least we should pay greater attention to the disabled and regulate those legal provisions that are necessary at today's level of civilisation, where in the open market labour supply - I repeat and stress, capitalism is cruel - seeking capable, able to work, without certain physical impairments or people who are disabled in one way or another. However, it is the duty of the State to protect and enable the equal inclusion of persons with disabilities in all areas of work for which they are capable despite their physical impairment. On the other hand, if we look at history, which is a very recent example of what the Spartans did with the cripples, what Hitler did, national socialism with those people who were either mentally affected or otherwise, but civilization requires their own, society with its progress in philosophy and humanity must protect the equality of all human beings, such as they were born. Therefore, we believe that the proposals for conclusions are still up to date, and we welcome the fact that it is essential that we, by means of appropriate laws or by accelerating that we receive those laws that will protect the disabled, on the other hand, make an obligation to employ persons with disabilities for the jobs they are capable of. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Young Slovenia Party - no. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u128	Thank you very much again for your word. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we accept the report on the implementation of disability protection as well-prepared material. We can say that the staff at the disability office have been properly and fully absorbed into the actual situation. The report is essentially a summary of the actual situation in this area and what is also to be welcomed is the fact that it points towards further positive development of the system and thus also provides opportunities to improve the situation, both for the individual and for the various groups of persons with disabilities. As regards the quality and content of implementation, the disability protection system is largely dependent on good regulatory arrangements in this area, in particular on the basis of legal solutions, which must be validated in practice. It is therefore necessary to ensure good implementation of these, including the necessary regulations, which are still missing. It is evident from the report that it has already been made so many or many times on the labour force that it is imperative to submit key legislative proposals from this area to the National Assembly as soon as possible: the Disability Organisations Act, the Law on Charities and Humanitarian Organisations, the Law on Slovenian Sign Language, the Law on the Training and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Two marriages, thank God, have been passed since then. However, there is an urgent need for a comprehensive and broad understanding of the law on the training and employment of persons with disabilities. We are in the parliamentary group, and I especially do not work the illusion that people with disabilities can easily be employed as much as we might expect from employers - self-initiative. The time we live is as hard as it is. Many, many of the unemployed are completely healthy relatively young people, educated people and, in this context, it is difficult to expect without a legal commitment or a regulatory arrangement that employers employ disabled people on their own. More than that, the law must be harmonised so that the number of persons with disabilities who are still employed is maintained. In particular, I would like to point out that the Disability Organisations Act and the Law on Charities and Humanitarian Organisations are prerequisites for a system of financing or allocation of funds for the functioning of disability and humanitarian organisations, and in particular for the implementation of good programmes, to be properly implemented, justified and supervised. The Foundation system is a solid source of funding for disabled humanitarian organisations and it would be difficult to imagine the strength of the system without this permanent financial resource. However, it is necessary, in accordance with the experience and arguments that have been clearly observed or are somehow present throughout these years, when the Foundation operates, to amend or supplement the key two acts, namely the Fund's funding rules for disability and humanitarian organisations, and the controller's criteria and conditions for the use of these funds. However, it is necessary to get to the Humanitarian Disability Organisations Act first and somehow find no excuse that the proposal for this law is not and is not being referred to the procedure. We would like to highlight something else that follows disability protection and our condition. Regardless of the hard character of individuals, such and other managers, for whom there are no obstacles to their visions or desires for wealth. But among these, there are many people among us who, from a humanly well-meaning, only take the initiative for the benefit of the disabled and need only be supported. Above all, to support them through a system of moral and material support, so we need a law on humanitarian organisation, and I expect the parliamentary group to do so for the next time the government has done so, for what it has committed itself and for what it has to do. We will also support any additional conclusions that are still relevant for the present time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. The two MPs have been voted out of office. Mr. Petty Officer, you still have a minute, if you'd like.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u130	I still have a minute. So the report as such is not enough to challenge. I also drew attention to something on behalf of the parliamentary group, a practice that is at the root of theory or planning. But I would just like to touch this deceptive loop - substitute with a disabled person or why the disabled would be employed when they can't work, or they would rather not. This thing is not fair, nor is it human, nor is it fair, nor is it supported by economic criteria. In fact, each person is his own subject, and it is difficult to predict ahead of time his ability. That's why it's inappropriate. There are a lot of prejudices - employment - that they are incapable of being able to do so, and that is, of course, if they are able to do so with certain devices in the scratch. Rigid legislation, of course, discourages employers. Sometimes they say, "Yes, I would hire, but I'm afraid of cases if there's to be forgiven for economic reasons, but I'm in trouble, or else I'm inclined." And that's the trap I mentioned several times. Why not encourage it in this way? This is worth warning in all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, have you been notified? You don't want to. Thank you very much. There's no more time. I give the floor to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mrs Stanki Tutta
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Respectable. On behalf of the Government, I would like to say in particular that the report prepared two years ago is an assessment of the situation in the field of disability, with a sufficiently well-designed methodology, so that we also want to monitor the situation in the field of disability in our country in the future, and to upgrade disability protection in our country. The conclusions of the report refer to what is yet to be done, and we have also made progress in these years since the preparation or consideration of the report. In any additional decision, in fact, it would be possible to say at what stage of the preparation or implementation of this Decision we are at: for some we have found that they have already been realized. Perhaps a more specific word would be given to the decision on the drafting of the Law on the Training and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. This is a law that has really been preparing for a very long time, not two years, it's been preparing for ten years. But we're not in an empty space. It is also being prepared for so long because it is such a difficult matter, so urgently necessary things that need to be reconciled both with employers and with people with disabilities, because the problem of motivation to hire people with disabilities is not only a problem on the part of employers but also very often on the part of people with disabilities. Among the high numbers of unemployed people who have been heard in this room today, more than 80% of the disabled, over 50 years of age, with very high compensations, and among them the motivation for employment is extremely low. So that the problems of the unemployed in the numbers heard today cannot be resolved only by the adoption of a law on the training and employment of persons with disabilities. And in these two years, we have therefore paid a lot of attention in fact to a thorough analysis of the situation of this large number of unemployed in the employment and resolution institution. As of this year, for example, we have already selected a list of authorised labour rehabilitation providers as an individual right of an individual unemployed person, which will in particular increase the employability of persons with disabilities. And we expect that in this year's very large number of people with disabilities will be able to go through this service, which, even in this year's budget, is provided with enough, more resources than in previous years, to take a step further towards greater employment for the disabled and a smaller problem for the unemployed. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Now I'm out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I conclude the general debate on the report. The vote on the proposal for a decision and on the additional decisions in which the Chairman of the Committee rightly pointed out that the decision under number 1 is irrelevant, i.e. on additional decisions from number 2 to 8, we will vote in accordance with the meeting's schedule at 19.40, which is in six minutes. That's why I'm breaking this agenda. Thank you so much for your cooperation. We shall proceed with the vote in six minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u134	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please come to the hall. We're moving to the vote. We're moving to the 13th item of the agenda. Please, if you calm down, check your voting devices. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the proposal of the Embremb and the completion of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Proposal for amendments and amendment of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry - First reading - is suitable for further consideration." I must remind you that, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that decision will be adopted if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. We're moving on to decision-making. Explanation of the vote by Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! A decision that would allow the amendment of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation will not be and cannot be supported. Because we are in a very sensitive time with regard to the commissions themselves and the subject matter of their investigations, and given that I am firmly convinced that such a procedure would, if it had not already been intended, but that the government coalition would have used it to make such changes to this law in further two cases that would have destroyed the parliamentary investigation. In fact, we are in a situation where at least two investigative commissions are practically necessary: major financial frauds, major abuses, large fraud in the case of SIB banks and completely untransparent operations, the operation of the development fund or development malt. I think, for example, Elena, an example of the unheard-of asset management awards at Maribor Vehicle Factory, where the prize for one-year management of the company is 1 million 200,000 marks after the court's statement and, ladies and gentlemen, such things in this country can only be investigated by a parliamentary inquiry. There are no authorities in this country that are capable of or will have political will. This was also shown by yesterday's Tarsus broadcast on TV [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u136	Please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u137	And I do not trust the current authorities, unless in ten years they have brought to justice any criminal of economic crime, that there is no change in this direction, that this law and this parliamentary institution will be destroyed. That's why I'm against moving on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u138	Thank you. Can we vote? We're voting. 64 present, in favour of 45 votes to 13. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda - the first reading of the proposal of the Real Estate Intermediation Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Real Estate Intermediation Act, the first consideration, is suitable for further consideration." That's what we're gonna decide. We're voting. 65 present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. This concludes item 14 of the agenda. We are moving on to the adjourned 15th item of the agenda - the consideration of the special report of the Ombudsman on the problem of tenants in denationalized apartments. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia took note of a special report by the Ombudsman on the problem of tenants in denationalized apartments." We will vote on that. We're voting. [[The ad from the bench.]] Now we're in the middle of a vote. I've read the decision. 66 present, for 51 votes against 2. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. This concludes item 15 of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - the first reading of the proposal for a housing law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Housing Act, the first consideration, is suitable for further consideration." That's what we're gonna decide. Vote explanation, Comrade Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We talked a lot about this apartment marriage today. I support the proposed conclusion that it is appropriate, but I ask my colleagues and, of course, the competent government services to respect everything they have said, to prepare all those mistakes that have crept into the Rapporteur and, of course, to overwind the individual articles of this housing law. We are doing it for a long period of time, and I therefore ask once again that we examine in the second reading, table amendments and prepare this law to the extent that it is actually appropriate for this law to be in force for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u140	Thank you. And Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. I will also support such a proposal, but I am counting on the proposal I have put forward on behalf of the Group of Members, to prepare a competent working body before further consideration, and to call for a public presentation of opinions where all these opinions, which have been expressed today, will be presented and that the applicant will then be able to take this into account and propose a truly complex system law that will address the whole issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u142	Thank you. Aloys Sok, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. Just for a little while, in one sentence. Minister Kopač promised here today before the National Assembly on this law - once again, I repeat - that he would respect the proposals made here today in the general debate. I expect that he will also respect this proposal and that the government will not object to the adoption of a proposal on the home labour body, as suggested by colleague Petan, to have a general debate on this law because of the importance of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u144	Thank you. And Ivan Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. I'm facing a dilemma as to how to vote. The proposal, as it is written in the Rapporteur, must undergo so many changes that the question would not have been better to write a new one. For all that we have talked about and with which Minister Kopač has generally agreed - with our comments - is now a dilemma about what we will get on the table or what we will amend. This is a big question, so I will abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u146	Thank you. I'm also a colleague of Sasha Peca's. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u147	To avoid ambiguity. Mr Bogdan Barovic gave the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. However, despite all the words about the need for the Act and the content they wish to receive before deciding by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the comments and views of individual Members and of the parliamentary groups for the next hearing will, of course, come true. If we cannot get this now for such or other reasons, we too will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u148	Thank you. We are moving to a vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting! There are 67 of us present. 59 votes against 1. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude the 16th item of the agenda. We move on to the end of the 19th item of the agenda - discusses reports on the implementation of disabled people's rights in the Republic of Slovenia. In this regard, we have the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take as much as possible into account the professional and substantive comments contained in the report on the implementation of disability protection in the Republic of Slovenia" Then we have additional conclusions. Number 1, Additional Decision, is irrelevant, number 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 are current. We are moving on to a decision on the first decision. We're voting. There are 67 of us present, 61 votes in favour, none against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on additional decisions, on an additional decision under number 2. [[Explanation of the voice - voice from the bench]] We're voting. We're voting! Let it go to the end and we'll do it again. I didn't see my hand before, but I pressed it. Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u149	I will vote against this decision because we already have a law on the promotion of the employment of persons with disabilities, which I have put into the National Assembly a long time ago, but there is no hearing to be addressed. The law is prepared on good professional grounds, an international comparison, so such a decision is unnecessary. It should be decided that the law tabled should be dealt with as soon as possible in the national assembly. Thank you very much. I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u150	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the vote on an additional decision under number 2. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 45 votes against 7. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the seven.]] The decision is adopted. We will decide on an additional decision under number 3. We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 48 votes against one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] The decision is adopted. We will decide on an additional decision under number 4. Again with the vote, I interrupt the vote. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that. The fourth conclusion is that it makes no sense, at least the first part. Law on children's orientation with special needs, government by-laws. On the basis of the law, the government should have long since drawn up submarital acts, but it has not yet prepared them and is in violation of the law. And I don't know what it's supposed to do to make decisions that impose something on the government, because it's already imposed by the law, not a violation. That is why we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u152	Thank you. Let's get to the vote. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 48 votes against 7. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the seven.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on an additional decision under number 5. Another explanation for the voice. Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u153	This time I'll vote against it myself. Not to give up the register are some reasons not to increase this neglect and the seal of disability. I would not like to contribute in any way to the further strengthening of this seal of disability to persons who have been harmed in any way. This is a key reason for me to vote against it. And the experience of some European countries, those who tried to introduce them, then also gave up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u154	Thank you. It's up to us to decide. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 44 votes against 8. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The decision is adopted. We're moving to the joint number six. Explanation of the vote, Mr. Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u155	Respectable. I'd like to give you a little heads-up on what a travesty it is to take these conclusions. These conclusions were written a year and a half ago in 2001. And then, gentlemen, just an example of why I will vote against - I would like to base it - then at the meeting of the Committee on 17 October 2001, the Ministry's representative, Mrs Tutta, said, quote: "Today at 11 a.m. we have a project council for training, employment of persons with disabilities and will address the first issues of the new law on the training and employment of persons with disabilities. So we expect that within three months, for example, the law will be ready for the first reading." That was October 17, 2001. It also identified or proved that there is an immediate law in preparation, including another law on the equalization of opportunities for persons with disabilities. For a year and a half after that, we have neither one nor the other, nor the third, nor the fourth, nor the fifth. Dear Members [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u156	I'm asking for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u157	Dear Members, working with our government [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u158	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u159	Working with our government is hypocrisy, it's funny, it's a travesty to take such conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u160	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 61 of us present. 39 votes against 12. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that this decision has also been adopted. We are moving on to decision-making under number seven. We're voting. At 60, 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. And a decision under number 8. Voice explanation, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u161	This decision is also obsolete because such a decision has already been adopted by the National Assembly, and this was, if I am not mistaken, in 1997 or 1998 and should only be implemented. So I don't know what's the point of building some conclusions that the government doesn't then realize. So what the previous composition of the National Assembly brings out is just enough. I think the flood of such conclusions takes the credibility of the National Assembly. Not to object to this, but to the content itself, the content is very, very current. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u162	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 64 present, in favour of 45 votes against 4. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I note that this decision has also been adopted. We have therefore voted on this item on the agenda, so I conclude the 19th item on the agenda. We move on to the 20th item of the agenda - confirmation of the official consolidated text of the Law on Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the Act on the Limitation of the Consumption of Tobacco Products. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The officially consolidated text of the Law on Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia shall be confirmed." We will vote on that. We're voting. 64 attended, 56 voted against, no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The officially purified text of the tobacco consumption restriction law shall be confirmed." We will vote on this proposal for a decision. We're voting. 64 present, the vote was 53.2 against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude the 20th item of the agenda. We are moving on to the 21st item on the agenda - mandate-holder matters. First of all, we will consider or decide on the notification of the District Court in Ljubljana, the Criminal Section, concerning the indictment filed against the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Zmaj Jelinčič Plmenite. The notice was considered on the Commission’s mandate-holder. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Ljubljana, the Criminal Department, for consideration of the meeting. The mandate-holder committee, as the working body, submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 207 of the Rules of Procedure, there is no debate on immunity matters, and we are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which is the case. There's no debate. This is when I put the proposal to the vote. Thus, the proposal for a decision reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 22(2) of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the District Court in Ljubljana, Penalty Section, correction No. 1K546/98, of 11.12.2002, in relation to the indictment submitted by the State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the group of state prosecutors from Ljubljana, in the direction of a reasoned suspicion of the offence of violence under Article 299(1) of the Criminal Code, recognises immunity to the Member of the National Assembly of Slovenia, to Mr. Victory Jelinčič Trimenite and does not allow the conduct of criminal proceedings." This is a proposal for a decision by the electoral commission. The explanation of vote was announced by colleague Aloise Sok. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. Dear President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! I apologize to my colleague Jelinčič in advance, and I am very sorry that Kviaz of the National Assembly voted on such a decision and granted immunity to Mr Jelinčič. Indeed, in 1997 I myself was the electorate of Dr Bernič and I was deeply hurt by Mr Jelinčič's statement. I will therefore not vote in favour of granting immunity to Mr Jelinčič in this matter. Everything else is in the material, of course, so I won't repeat his statement because I think it's almost done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u164	Thank you. Anyone else want an explanation for the voice? I'm a colleague of Kebrich's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u165	Thank you for your word. I will not vote for this decision myself for the simple next reason. Members of Parliament are elected from the people, citizens with the confidence that we are worthy, credible and that we have the right to invoke immunity when we are politically in favour of certain proposals, such or other, legal, different opinions. And we can express them freely, without fear. But it's not dignified and I feel hurt when citizens say, "You're exploiting immunity for other things that have nothing to do with your work." Therefore, for insults and other offences, one or the other coming to court, I will never vote for them, for immunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u166	Thank you. Dr. Bayuk has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I will vote against this proposal. However, I would just like to take this opportunity to say, on behalf of the Group of Members, that the press release on the Kwiaz vote was wrong and I apologize to my colleagues in the United Nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u168	Thank you. Can we go to a decision? Another explanation for the vote, Comrade Sasha Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u169	My purpose is not to interrupt the vote. I also appreciate that I raised my hand in time, so much in apology. On the other hand, some claim that at the moment of today's decision it is a decision on history, a relationship in history and a view to history. About what's going on around World War II. This is said by some, and I personally agree. On the other hand, it is necessary and reasonable to stress the point that immunity in such cases makes it possible for the Member not to fall behind the meetings of the national assembly and the meetings of the working bodies for his own fault. I personally believe that the absence of one member within the larger parliamentary group would not be known in their work. However, I can assure you that I am coming from a small group of Members, so that the absence of one member of the Slovenian National Party would bring a certain type of damage to the functioning of the Group of Members. And because I also believe that it is in the interest of all of us to adopt as best as possible laws, that individual political organisations, parliamentary groups prepare themselves as best as possible for these laws and that they are not in a strange way impossible to do their work, I appeal to all that they support the proposal for immunity. We will do it in every way in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u170	Thank you. Are we done explaining our voices? We can go to decision-making. We're voting. At 60, 17 votes to 40. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. We are moving on to the next decision point, dealing with the notice of the District Court in Ljubljana, the Criminal Section, concerning the proposed indictment against the Ambassador of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Jerco Mrzel. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Ljubljana, the Criminal Department, for consideration of the meeting. The notification was considered by the Commission’s mandate-holder as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. Does the representative of the commission want a word? [[No, no, ……]] In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure, there is no debate on immunity matters, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 83 of the Constitution of Slovenia and the first and second paragraphs of Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the District Court in Ljubljana, the Penal Section, op. II-K-292/2000 of 30.1.2003, concerning the indictment submitted by the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana of 26.5.2000 for the offence of acts of mistreatment under Article 146, the threat to security under Article 145, and the damage to foreign matters under the 224/1 Penal Code, does not recognise the immunity of Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Mrs Jerci Mrzel, and allow the conduct of criminal proceedings." We will vote on the proposal for a decision. Vote explanation, Comrade Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u171	Thank you. I will vote against such a decision. It is a Slovenian national party and will still have a principled attitude. My colleague, Jerca Mrzel, has barely come to our Parliament, she shares different opinions with us and you colleagues, so, since I am not familiar with this content at all, I think it is a shame that we are talking about this today. On behalf of colleagues and colleagues of the Slovenian National Party, I say that we will be against the proposal put forward by Quiaz. We want the Jerci to be recognised as a hater of immunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u172	Thank you. No one wants an explanation of vote anymore, so we are moving on to a decision. We're voting. There were 56 of us present, and 39 votes in favour, 14 against, in favour of the motion for a decision. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 14th.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to proposals for electoral decisions. The Council of Justice submitted four proposals to the National Assembly on the election to judicial office at the courts of the three District Judges and the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. Does the representative of the Judicial Council want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The proposals were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and submitted a proposal for conclusions to the assembly. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Comrade Sushinik? Thank you. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. [[Nobody.]] Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on individual proposals for conclusions. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Vesna Pavlič Pivk to the district court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We will vote on this proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, and 49, 4 votes against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Petra Stanonik Bošnjak to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We vote on this proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, with 46.3 votes against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Ms Lara Tršan Choko to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. That's what we're gonna decide. We're voting. There are 55 of us present. The vote was 44, 3 against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Matjaž Voglar to the district judge's seat at the District Court in Ljubljana. That's what we're gonna decide. We're voting! There are 57 of us present. The vote was 48, 3 against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I thank the representatives of the Council of Justice for their presence, and we congratulate the newly elected judges and judges. We are moving on to a proposal for a decision appointing the Director of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal to appoint Mrs Marja Majer Cuk as Director of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of four years was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[I can't see.]] The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented a proposal for a decision to the assembly. Does the rapporteur want a word? Not at all. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Comrade Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. With regard to this lady, on the basis of some anonymous writing, I have asked some questions on the Committee on Agriculture, and I must say here that I have also received answers from the Ministry of Agriculture to all the questions raised. However, I would like to draw attention to one fact in this appointment. The fund managed by Mrs Cukova is managed by about 400,000 ha of agricultural land and forests and has 88 employees. This fund annually generates between 500 million and 600 million tolars of its own income in all these lands, which practically means that this fund, in its current state with all state forests and with everything it owns, does not generate virtually any profit. This is also our comment by the parliamentary group and, despite us, I would say satisfactory responses to the findings made in the anonymity, but we will not support the said candidates for the Director of the Agricultural Lands Fund. At the same time, I would like to say that the majority of the best agricultural land in this fund is being processed today by 131 agricultural organisations, and we are convinced that Slovenian farmers should manage these areas, especially now that we are saying that they should be prepared for accession to the European Union. Thus, unfortunately, farmers cannot enter these lands, and of course, because of this they also enter the European Union with substantially small farms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u174	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate between Members and Members. And we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of Mrs Marja Majer Cuk as Director of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of four years. It shall enter into force on 12 March 2003. I put this proposal to the vote. We're voting. There are 62 of us present. 49 votes against 9. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a proposal for a decision - on the appointment of a president and two members of the Fund's Management Board to finance the decommissioning of the Krška nuclear power plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from nuclear Krka. The proposal for a decision was submitted by a mandate-holder committee for consideration by the assembly. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. [[No, no, ……]] The MPs and the MPs? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss any more, I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of a President and two members of the Management Board of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. I will put this proposal to the vote. We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of a member of the RTV Council. The proposal for a decision was submitted by a mandate-holder committee for consideration by the assembly. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. [[No one wants to.]] I give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of a member of the Council of RTV Slovenia. This decision shall be put to the vote. There are 58 votes in favour, 47 against 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Proposal for a Decision on consent to the appointment of the Director-General of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. The Assembly of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance presented to the National Assembly a proposal for an agreement on the appointment of Mr Borut Miklavčič as Director General of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance for a period of four years. Does a representative of the Bureau's Assembly want a word if he's present? Please, Mrs. Ana Mokorel, President of the Assembly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As President of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance, I would like to give you, honourable Members and Members, some arguments for your decision today to agree to the appointment of Mr Borut Miklavčič as Director-General of the Institute. At its 7th regular meeting on 10.12.2002, the Assembly of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance appointed, on a proposal from the Management Board of the Institute, Mr Borut Miklavčič, Director-General of the Institute, a university-graduated political scientist from Ljubljana, for a term of four years. The vote on the appointment of the Director-General was secret. The result of the secret ballot was 26:13 in favour of the candidate. The basis for the decision-making at the assembly was the written programme of the candidate, as well as the presentation of the candidate itself, both at the meeting of the Management Board and at the meeting of the Assembly. In the programme, Mr Borut Miklavčič stressed solidarity that solidarity must remain or become a basis for such a level of health care that enables each insured person to be given adequate health care in the event of illness; fairness as a principle of equal accessibility for all insured persons, that under equal conditions and in the face of equal health problems, the State also provides patients with equal treatment options; fairness, where it has placed consistency in the payment of contributions in the first place; and stressed also the aspect of the appropriate sharing of the funds collected between operators and direct users of rights; autonomy, a principle which means preserving the means of exercising healthcare rights in the context of a self-sustaining healthcare package, which is the basis for the stability, efficiency and reliability of the functioning of the health insurance system. The Assembly of the Institute must become more active in relation to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by giving initiatives and proposals. In particular, it has been defined to finance health activities, to finance basic health activities and hospital activities. It was also critical to the current system of contracting with health programme providers, which is complex, delayed and ineffective, due to the right of vetoes of some or individual negotiators. It should be changed. It advocates a negotiating system, but clearly defines the content of negotiations and the rights of negotiators and the conclusion of contracts at the beginning of the year. In separate chapters he showed the following visions: Informatics as the basis for guidance, planning and control in the healthcare system [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u176	Please be careful when presenting yourself!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u177	Here he stressed the health insurance card system as a good project but underutilised; public information and information objectives and strategy in the field of information technology. It also identified the way in which the institution works, with particular emphasis on the security and openness of cooperation with other institutions. Measures to reduce the deficit and increase the liquidity of the institution - here he indicated that he would pay the highest attention to remedying the deficit. He also gave a look at health care reform. The reform of the healthcare system is necessary both in the area of resources, new assessments of the content and scope of compulsory health insurance rights, more equitable distribution of existing resources within the system, promotion of efficient resource use and quality assurance of health services. In presenting the programme, he referred to the guidelines adopted in the National Health Programme, the Strategic Development Programme of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance and the public position of the Ministry of Health on the necessary changes in the health system. Mr Borut Miklavčič has worked for 12 years in the field of health care and has worked in the economy for 12 years. All of this was extensively explained by the applicant both at the meeting of the Management Board and at the Assembly. After a broad and thorough professional discussion, and after further questions were raised to the candidate, we gave a positive assessment of the presentation of his programme and the objectives set out to achieve it, or that the candidate submitted an appropriate programme for the further development of the healthcare and health insurance system. In the light of the decision taken at the Assembly, we expect agreement to appoint Mr Borut Miklavčič as Director General of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance. The decision to appoint Mr Borut Miklavčič as Director-General of the Institute for Health Insurance is final and valid and legally effective, which is enforceable, although not yet authorised. There is no legal reason why consent to this act would not be decided at the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u178	I do not have an application to present the views of the groups of Members. I will therefore give the floor to the Members and Members of Parliament. A colleague of Sašo Pece signed up. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u179	The representative of the Assembly stressed and drew attention to the principles of equal accessibility, integrity and consistency. At times like these, one would imagine that these are virtues that mark a person who does not have material values in the first place, who is willing to give up material values even if it achieves a higher goal. But the proposal for candidacy, the appointment to such an important job as running one of the major institutions in our country, which is reflected in all segments of our society, I think there is one element of grief here. If the national assembly today takes a decision by the Council or the body and if the national assembly today gives its consent to the appointment of the candidate, that can mean, according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, only two. For the first time, that we have started to value those goods or those principles that mean exclusively wealth at the expense of the State. That's right. That's a lot in our country. But in such a transparent way, I think that other Members should not support such activities. If we look at a retirement from the previous service of 14 billion Slovenian tolars and then a return of 3.2 billion, we see that this is a remarkable business. Let's make this a political business, because we can't imagine it. In the final stage, politics played an important role in the conclusion of the first individual contract, and now politics plays a role in the so-called reactivation of the new job. On the other hand, if this candidate were to be accepted, he would also give a signal to our country that he does not have capable young people who would be able to take over such an institution. And because in our country, of course, there are no capable young people or those who have just acquired knowledge, we must accept people and reactivate them from their, say, secondary or final period. In the Slovenian National Party, we cannot agree with any of these arguments. Not by re-employing people who have already gone into retirement, not by politically agreeing to reward individuals again in a few million, and under the pretext of principles, I will quote: "Equal accessibility, honesty and consistency." We expect respect for these principles to lead to a proposal for another candidate. In addition, respect for these principles should lead Members and Members to oppose this proposal. We will oppose this proposal in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u180	I give my word to Master Janez Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u181	Our health care is certainly at a turning point. The turning point, as we can see, is the way down. For such a time, we would need people who have experience with modern guidance. As long as he's ours, there's probably a reason for such a proposal. Health care is in critical condition and the way is down with such choice of candidate will guarantee a further way down. This isn't good for the health system. If you come forward, colleagues and colleagues, and if you vote in favour of such a proposal, you will make a mistake. Citizens will also be concerned about this.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u182	Peace in the hall. Attention to the debater.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u183	The proposed candidate was then confronted with the PCB affair, still not resolved. We do know, however, that he was the most responsible man in that area at the time. One who has already gone to retirement has been caught for this more than a well-deserved retirement, certainly not fit to face such challenges. With such challenges to be accepted at this crucial time. That is why our House, as well as I, will vote against this proposal. Not to him as a person, but mainly because of the reason he is responsible for such a complex and critical system in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u184	Thank you. The word is Marko Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u185	Thank you for your word, lovely greeting. I believe that this is a pleasant and capable gentleman, but at the same time, I believe that there would certainly be some young candidate for this town who would be able to face the problems that the health insurance institution has. At the same time, I think it would be good for this gentleman to take advantage of the benefits offered by our institution for pension and disability insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u186	Thank you. France Tsukati has a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. At these points in this late evening, it is customary to fly quickly over human resources matters. This may be good for some things, but it may be bad for others. With regard to the candidate himself, Mr Miklavčič, of course, I have already spoken on the committee. But I must stress here one matter that we ignore or ignore too quickly. However, this National Assembly is responsible for the confirmation of the candidate, the responsibility in this case for the operation of the health insurance system for the next four years. Don't forget, gentlemen! I, too, judge the candidate according to the programme he has given and which all members of Kviaz have also received, or probably all Members of Parliament. In this paper, in this programme, I must say, there is a type of inaccuracy, a type of evidence that Mr Miklavčič does not know the current system of health care, he does not know the mechanisms for how this health care works, he does not know the type of things from which he concludes and creates a vision of future action. But if it comes out in its vision of wrong knowledge, these conclusions can be very harmful.Very harmful, not just for patients, for the whole country. Let me just give you one example. He says that additional insurance will need to be redesigned, redefined and re-installed. That is to say insurance as for waiting periods, and after this insurance, think about who would be additionally insured for the waiting period, you would also have immediate access to emergency health services. In any case, I'd skip all the waiting types. It means that anyone who wants to come in due time should be protected. And in a variant to do so, virtually all citizens would be additionally insured for the waiting period in order to skip it. And if everyone were insured for this, then again there would be waiting periods and it would be impossible to skip this waiting period. However, if only some people would want up to 10% of the population to allow the waiting period to be skipped, then this insurance should be so high that only 10% of the population could manage it. In any event, 10% would extend the waiting period to other poor people who could not pay for it. These would be even greater social differences, even greater non-solidarity and even greater anger among today's patients. For that, gentlemen, we will be responsible, don't forget, don't forget! And, of course, in the next chapter, he talks about the principle of equal accessibility - yes, my God, in the previous chapter, in the previous paragraph, he breaks down this poor equality that we have - because you know that half the patients go through the side door, with knowledge and so on. He breaks it down and talks about how he will eliminate it or how he will establish the principle of equal accessibility.Gentlemen, I could talk to you all night about the nonsense of this program. However, I do not expect at the same time from a gentleman who has been so many years of health care who has never worked in an insurance company that he worked in an electric economy to know all these things. I don't expect it, I don't demand it. But if he's a good manager - you say he's a good manager - then this gentleman would look for some other advisors than he did, because he didn't write it. I'm afraid he's found counselors on the side where our health system really is sold, because these are the words of the Minister of Health here in this room. [[Let's hear it.]] And in this case, gentlemen, you will, of course, get by your human resources policy a man who will nod, who will repeat what will be said at the Ministry of Health, but be aware that it is to the detriment of Slovenian health. Now we've had some dialectic, Mr. Kosher hasn't nodded, he hasn't nodded, he's working with his head. But in this dialectic, negotiations were painful, difficult, but there was a solution. However, if the Minister does not allow anyone to think differently and that disturbs him, and therefore implements his human resources policy, gentlemen, then I fear what will happen to our health. But for the next four years, you will be and we will be responsible for how the health insurance company will function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u188	Thank you. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the agreement to appoint Mr Borut Miklavčič as Director-General of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute for a period of four years. I shall put the motion to the vote. We're voting. At 62, 34 votes against 25. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the President of the Cooperation Assembly. We're moving on to Continuation 2. Agenda items - Third Amendment to the Law on Parliamentary Intelligence and Security Services. On Tuesday, 25.2.2003, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly decided, on the proposal of the law's proponents, that the third consideration of the bill would be carried out at this meeting on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. We are therefore moving on to the third reading of the bill. You have received a review of the adopted amendments in second reading and an updated proposal for a law. Since no amendments had been tabled before the beginning of the consideration of the bill, the assembly will hold only a full debate on the draft law. Does the proposer's representative want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u189	Thank you very much. That's all I'd say about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u190	Excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u191	the law, because we've talked so much about it at first reading, second reading, now it doesn't make sense to repeat things. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Does the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I give the full floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups on the draft law. Anybody want a word? Comrade Jerovšek. Can I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We are before the final act to get the first law to regulate the work of our intelligence and security services. In the last ten years, the powers of the intelligence and security services have changed due to the changed international situation and some of the powers of these services have also expanded to areas not previously dealt with: the fight against terrorism, money laundering, organised crime, international economic crime, the tremendous increase in legal migration and so on. This is a wide area and the powers of these services are great. Unfortunately, sometimes the fight against the abuse of democracy is only possible through the use of intelligence and security services. However, any such step must be legally regulated and all control options must be provided. The working conditions of the Supervisory Commission so far have been extremely difficult. In these years, the Commission has paved its way. Many times, however, there was a contradiction between her control and her control over the controlled services and not the other way around. Especially because she did not have the authority to rely on the law to require the supervised service to report to her on the data and circumstances providing for effective control. Today, before the adoption of this law, we have laid the groundwork for more effective control. The law will enable the Commission to also be able to provide feedback from the Government on the effectiveness, effectiveness and performance of the individual tasks of the intelligence and security services from the contracting authority. Under the law, there will have to be a link between the Commission, intelligence and security services and the government. This responsibility for cooperation will be bound by this law. This will allow the Commission to make a claim that the work of the intelligence and security services has been lawful, appropriate and effective. This law will depend on the success and purpose of the entire Commission's work in the future. In Slovenia we do not have a long tradition in exercising control over the work of these services. Therefore, the preparation of the marriage was difficult and difficult. I also speak here in part in the role of President of this Commission, because I must say that a great deal of our perseverance and work has been invested in the preparation of this law, and we have prepared it with the help of experts, and it is now before us for final admission. It is likely that practice will show that there will be something else that needs to be worked out, repaired and changed, but that the step is taken. The balance between freedom and security is also ensured through the production of intelligence and security services. More than these services have the power, there has to be more control. Parliamentary oversight must always be comprehensive and thorough. This is where I defined myself to this law in principle. However, I must say that if I acted only as a representative of the Social Democratic Party and if I were to write the law of the Social Democratic Party, we would write a law that would give more power to this committee for parliamentary supervision. However, we are aware of the political reality. Unfortunately, the political reality is that the proposed law did not appeal to supervised services in the initial stages, and it also reflected through the initial amendments of the government that we were on the border when the government, in my opinion, after the pressure of controlled services, passed such a law. That is why we are also political realists in the Social Democratic Party and we have supported the law that the Commission has drawn up with experts. I should also like to thank you on this occasion, although I am speaking on behalf of the Group of Members, the members of the Commission and the Secretary of the Commission for the great effort and great effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u194	Thank you, chairman of the commission. Anyone else? Do any of the Members and Members want a word? We will vote on the law as a whole. Please take your seats. Can I ask my colleagues and colleagues in the lobby to come to the hall? Please come to the hall. We will vote on the proposal for a law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services as a whole. Colleagues and colleagues, we are voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 56 present, 55 for and no one against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Now we're going to deal with Proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Albania on mutual assistance in customs matters - 9. It's a day's work. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Does the rapporteur of the Foreign Policy Committee want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] No amendments were adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, so there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. Colleagues and colleagues, we are voting on the bill. 56 present, 48 for, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and that the 9th item of the agenda has been concluded. At 10. We are dealing with the draft law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on cross-border police cooperation. This proposal was also submitted to the assembly by the Government. He wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] Does the rapporteur want to speak to the Foreign Policy Committee? [[Nobody.]] There is also a warning that there were no amendments, so there is no discussion of the articles. We are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Colleagues and colleagues, we are voting. We are in the midst of a full vote on the bill. 57 present, 47 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. At 11. We are dealing with the draft law on the ratification of the agreement on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Central European Free Trade Agreement. He wants the word of the government that introduced the law? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the rapporteur want to speak to the Foreign Policy Committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since there are no amendments, there is no debate on the articles, so we are moving on to the third reading, i.e. to decide on the proposal for a law on ratification. Excuse me, I'm terminating the vote, colleague Jelinčič wants to explain his vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u195	Thank you, Mr. President. Again, the unconsistency of Slovenian politics and the placation of the southern neighbours was demonstrated. While Croats throw pollen under our feet while they don't want to sell us Sunny Hvar, while we have nuclear problems with them, while we have problems because of the Ljubljana Bank, while we have problems with holiday homes, Slovenian holiday homes in Croatia, while we have problems with taxation of Slovenian weekends in Croatia, and, however, between that and many of those in the meantime. And yet we have decided to tighten the door to the Croats and we will help them and push them into all possible international organizations just to make it easier for them to scratch on us. I don't know what to say, but it looks like she's starting to have some stupidity in the Slovenian political scene. This reminds us of some of Shakespeare's comedies, at least in the beginning, but it reminds me more and more of his tragedies. For with so many heads, however, there could be a pinnacle of human wisdom. We will vote against it, and so will I.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u196	There's someone else who wants to explain her voice, Comrade Ashish.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u197	Thank you very much. While I was also appointed on the Committee on External Policy for the Rapporteur, I assessed that there was no need, since there was no discussion or practical discussion on the Committee, the ratification was supported on the grounds that this agreement also benefited Slovenia. From the government's explanations, it seems that the agreement will not be valid for long, because after we enter the European Union, we will be in a different position, and this agreement applies to countries within CEFTE. Nevertheless, the agreement will also work for Slovenia. Only one sample that makes problems for our economy is that Clio, from New Town in Croatia, is a car that is mutilated, taxed as a vehicle, of course, from third countries, which will not happen again. However, I would like to point out that my view of supporting Croatia's accession to as many European associations as possible is particularly different in the European Union. I suppose, I am counting on it, and I was talking about it yesterday at the time of the Treaty's ratification that I am pleased that Croatia has submitted a request to the European Union and that I will be happy if it starts the accession negotiations as soon as possible. Since then, European rules, European directives, European legislation, and we are likely to solve a number of problems at European level, not in the Balkans, as we have done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u198	Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. I'm asking for peace in the hall. 57 in attendance, 44 in and 6 in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the law on ratification of this Agreement has been adopted. We're at the 12th point, this is the last of the points we've moved from last night's work to today, we're dealing with the defence of the proposal for a law amending the privatisations of the Slovenian Railway D public enterprise. D., by emergency. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. Does Minister Presecnik want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The proposal for a law was addressed by the Infrastructure Committee. The president doesn't want a word. Presentations of the positions of the groups will be followed. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The course of this regular session is somewhat unusual in terms of understandable causes. However, I would just like to ask if it is in accordance with the rules of procedure that we are currently considering this point, especially because we know that we have not yet completed each other. It's late and I'd like to see if it's in conjunction with the rulebook. If you can explain to me why you think it's right to start looking at this point. To deal with the laws, so important, so quickly, doesn't seem appropriate. We understand the weather, but it's only an important matter. I don't want this to go quickly just because it's late and there's still a lot of work to be done. Why, for example, did you not decide to finish what we had to stop now, namely this closed session of ours, regarding the unfinished item that was on the agenda today?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u200	This is not a matter of rules of procedure. It is an agreement that has been concluded on the agenda and the course of this meeting in college. Yesterday, due to the circumstances you are mentioning, we did not end up dealing with all the points envisaged. The four agenda items on agendas 9, 10, 11 and 12 were postponed last night to this evening, which is already very busy. That's why this evening was delayed by a decision. This is the last of these four points, Comrade Dr. Bayuk. Once we've exhausted this, let's get back to today's unfinished business and finish, close the meeting. So all we have is this and the next item, and let's close the session. The fact is, yesterday, the need to meet the Constitutional Commission has shaped our work. If that hadn't happened, we'd have pulled back a little bit last night and ended up a little early today. Next time at the college, if we assess that we will conclude the meeting sooner, this will mean an extension of the work of the National Assembly for some day. Representatives of the parliamentary groups would like a word on this point? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u201	Thank you so much for saying that. We have before us a law on the transformation and privatisation of the public enterprise of the Slovenian Railways. Here I must say that we actually have a twin, namely a law on rail transport, which we have already adopted in the past year. But somehow you go with your hand in your hand. The Slovenian People's Party has been monitoring both the law and the creation of the law, in particular Articles 6, 13 and 18 of the said Act, which substantially alters the current organisation of the Slovenian Railways. We need to know that after Slovenia's independence the Slovenian transport market is sufficient for roads, carriers and Slovenian railways, and it is absolutely necessary to reorganise or transform both. In the road area, this was much easier because there were individual companies or private sectors, while Slovenian railways were so-called or I could say state railways, which, given the change in the transport market, did not adapt quickly enough. I would point to something that was disputed and which will probably also prove later in the transformation of Slovenian railways itself. In Article 2, however, the role of the State is somewhat misplaced, but Articles 16 and 19 will allow this matter to be dealt with by the Minister's decree. When turning Slovenian Railways into a holding company and dedicated companies, I count that the government will closely monitor developments on the Slovenian Railways at both Article 16 and Article 19 because this is currently one of the major companies in Slovenia, a sensitive company in Slovenia and, of course, will be the transformation of a lot of personnel. However, if they solve in this way as they have done so far, these matters will not go so cruelly forward. I am also concerned that, in the first indent of Article 6, we have adopted or excluded the word "modernisation", which was then explained to me that this is not a legal concept, but that only maintenance, according to the law I said, the law on rail transport in article 11 speaks slightly differently about these concepts, that just as I had previously said in the introduction, needs a careful and vigilant role of the State, which, I must say, is somewhat underworked in this law. The Slovenian People's Party will support this law, and according to the report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, these amendments, which are here and then also, in view of the amendments adopted today, some kind of a copy of this law has been made, so that the same law will be easier to adopt today. In view of the fact that I am a railway driver myself by profession, I would suggest to Members and Members that this law be supported, because in this way some kind of impatient situation on the Slovenian Railways will somehow end and the expectations of some railway operators and all rail users will somehow be properly shaped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u202	Thank you. Does any of the other members of parliament want to do so? Please, colleague Mamić for the New Slovenia Group. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u203	Thank you very much. I salute the Minister, the President and the other present! The letter from the Minister of Transport, Mr President, citizens and citizens before the first referendum this year states: Let us vote against the spending of our money. I agree with that, too. If I were alone without the right information, I would be among those who would vote against it, which would mean that it would be the case for those who have inherited misleading propaganda. I have mentioned the name of Mr President, but my deep conviction is that this is the work of our government, because no minister can do anything in his own way. Only sin can take over. The referendum failed, the government won. What now? I will ask today, from this city, our government, how much less the state's guarantees will be and will be less lost than before in the Slovenian Railways, which we have paid very hard in recent years or have not yet paid, we have only agreed. According to my calculations, we currently owe, with the guarantee and everything else, about 45 billion tolars, in these three years. In just one year, I will ask again the same question, and once again towards the end of 2004, at the end of this term, to compare. I'm gonna write those voter numbers. These figures in the propaganda material are horrifying or encouraging. If Slovenian railways are fully privatised, perhaps some of the predictions will be made, but if it is just freight transport, I have not been persuaded by the gentlemen of the government. On the contrary, there will be more guarantees. We have spoken in our party before about this, publicly, that we do not support the law, that we will be at the referendum for and now it would be contradictory if Nova Slovenije supported this bill. So we're going to vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u204	Does any of the other members of the group want a word? We're moving on to decision-making. No amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal and the discussion on the articles is therefore not possible. This is the conclusion of the debate, and this is the second consideration of the proposal. I have no information that the text would be uncoordinated, so that the conditions for us to move to a full decision on the law are met. Colleagues and colleagues from the lobby, please come to the hall. The National Assembly will decide. Colleagues and colleagues from the lobby or offices, please join us in the hall. After this decision, we have only one more item on the agenda. Colleagues and colleagues! We will vote on the bill as a whole. Excuse me? Maybe I didn't notice. Comrade Petty Officer, did you raise your hand during the vote? For a long time, it was intended for colleagues to gather in the hall and someone could raise their hand to explain their voices. That's why I don't think I rushed the procedure in this case. Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u205	I picked it up in time. About the time you called in.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u206	But then you didn't, because I was watching through the hall, and I have to warn you. 49 present. 38 for, 10 for. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the law has been passed. Ten o'clock, sorry! Ten o'clock, I'm sorry! This point is closed. We're going to the last one now, 18. It's a day's work. I propose a five-minute recess to allow us to continue the discussion at a closed session, so that we continue at 21.20. Until then, I'm adjourning. [[The opening part of the sitting was suspended 26. OF FEBRUARY 2003 AT 21.18 URIS.]] [[PROHIBITION OF THE PART OF THE SESSION]]
