ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues, welcome to the 26th meeting of the National Assembly. Please take your seats. It's 10:00 p.m. and it's time to start our work today. Before we go on the 1st item of the agenda, this is on the question of Members and Members of the Prime Minister, let me inform you that some of our colleagues are still detained today. Comrade Ašič will be absent between 11 a.m. and 6 p.m., colleague of Feri Horvat will be absent from the work of the National Assembly after 12.00 p.m., otherwise absent colleagues of Bozič, Dr. Brejc, colleagues of Čebulj, Germič, Kacin, Kangler, Kopušar, Lenko, Levič, Martian, Petan, Peterle, Podobnik, Pohorec, Švagan and Mag. A visor. We're going to continue with the 1st. It's the day's work. The Prime Minister should be with us. I'll wait a few moments. The president is informed that the meeting is at 10 a.m. Because of his absence yesterday, we have also moved the beginning of this part of the issue to today. Once again, I ask the Prime Minister to come to the hall, or I will order a short recess. I'm calling the Prime Minister again to come to the hall. The Prime Minister has come to the hall. I know the Prime Minister always has a lot of responsibilities, but we will be grateful if he respects our decision to start the sessions precisely and will help us do so. Today, the Prime Minister will answer three parliamentary questions coming from opposition colleagues. The first question for the Prime Minister - if you are ready - will be raised by his colleague Vnučec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, Minister, colleague and colleague! The guaranteed salaries in Slovenia amount to a fight of 50,000 tolars gross while the salaries of the leading workers, which we could see from the media, in companies where the country, if small, is at least a co-founder of these companies, are almost 35 times higher and still growing. We are also witnessing a debate on deindexing already modest state subsidies and social aid, if not this year, definitely in the coming year. On the other hand, the government is preparing a rebalancing to meet us in a short time, and it is increasing the deficit again. The government is spending for non-developmental purposes, as has already been mentioned several times by our parliamentary group, which we were among the first to mention the unreasonable spending of money on the purchase of a luxury government aircraft, in addition to the hanger, not to mention the luxury fleet of public servants. It's very funny, then, that the government is thinking about introducing tuition. On the other hand, the main source of charging the state VAT budget that we all pay, regardless of income, when we buy bread and milk, I will say that there are no social differences in those basic matters that we all need here. On the other hand, Slovenian wages are among the most taxed wages in the developed world, not alone in Europe. According to some statistics, there are various contributions and benefits of almost 60%. This is also proof that such a way of filling the state budget does not know how to develop the world. Therefore, of course, I ask you, Prime Minister, in view of the new tax legislation coming, both in the field of income, other new taxes, what you will do or whether you will allow the social distribution of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to increase at the expense of these new taxes, given that, according to some data, there are already almost 40% of those living in poverty or on the brink of poverty. What will you do to prevent us from becoming second-rate citizens of this desired and expected community when entering the European Community? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u3	Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u4	Dear Member, thank you very much for this question. I think it's two things to answer. On the one hand, it is necessary to clarify everything you claim to be rather inaccurate and, on the other hand, to clarify some of the government's actions. If we go in order. When the wage system law was adopted in the public sector, the public sector wage ratios were published in the annex. You can look at this and see that you don't keep this relationship that you're talking about. You were talking, I think, about the ratio of 1 to 34. This analysis, which was carried out, concluded that this ratio was 1 to 14. In addition to the additional analysis carried out, it was found that the ratio after one year is from then 1 to 12. The purpose of this law is to establish a ratio of 1 to 10. This is a relationship that is completely comparable with countries in the European Union, and wage analysis also shows that these differences are far from as big as you would like to see in this issue and the preparation of this issue. Thus, the ratio between the ninth and the first decile according to the latest figures in 2002 for salaries in Slovenia is 3.4. The ratio between the highest wages in the 9th Decil and the average wage, that means in the middle of these scales, and 1 versus 7. Data on the distribution of inequalities also show that this inequality has not changed at this time. If you know Gini's coefficient and it shows a ratio of 0.23. Complete inequality would be at factor 1. It certainly does not hold what you said about wage ratios. Of course, this does not mean that the government is satisfied with the wage ratio, especially in the part where we talk about the highest wages in Slovenia and the payment of individual prizes, not so much in the public sector as in particular in the case of certain companies, share companies. This topic and issue were addressed by the government at its meeting and commissioned the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to prepare an analysis of wage relations, particularly in the part where we are talking about extreme wages and also the payment of special awards to the supervisory councils. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour to do so by the end of June. The government will then come forward with its proposals to discuss with the social partners, those who decide otherwise in private companies about salaries, with the company Manager, with employers, and also with trade unions in front of the entire Slovenian public. We agree, and we are convinced that there is no need for extreme wage differences in Slovenia, but we also believe that there is no need to pay the extreme reward. As you have probably already been monitoring in the media, both state funds have already taken action in this regard and will propose a reduction of the prizes at most of these successive assemblies, and of course in those cases where we will find that they are extreme wages, including a reduction in wages. As far as social policy is concerned, the government received a special programme to combat poverty and social exclusion in early 2000. I think I'm running out of time to introduce you to the entire program. Under this programme, we have increased social assistance in Slovenia since September 2001, from 35,000 to 50,000 beneficiaries. However, the average amount of such social assistance ranges from 35 or exactly 34 thousand to 44 thousand. In both parts, we have taken an active social policy towards reducing poverty and social exclusion. Thus, government expenditure increased from 1.2 billion to 2.2 billion in 2003. Even when you're talking about poverty, you've served with a lot of inaccurate data. Among the Member States of the European Union, according to an internationally comparable methodology, only some countries are comparable to Slovenia and all others have a higher rate of poverty. Only Denmark, the Netherlands, Austria and Finland have comparable levels of poverty. Even when we talk about debt, if you look at all the Member States of the European Union, you will see that there is only one Member State, a Member of the European Union with a public debt greater than Slovenia and only a few of those with a public financial deficit greater or lower than Slovenia. Most of them are taller. And let me also say that the government in particular has decided that, when deindexed in no way and in no way does it reduce those social transfers, in particular social assistance, which would affect the area of those most at the poverty line and those most burdened with low wages. Specific measures will be taken in this regard. The Ministry of Labour has also been tasked and tasked with preparing all the measures necessary to prepare, at the time of de-indexation, a revision of social policy and even to increase certain social transfers, particularly in that part and at the time when poverty would be reduced most. Neither do they hold your claim regarding tuition. The government has made it clear that we do not support the introduction of fees. Schools will be free or schooling. The plane and the hangar are obviously running out of time, but I can assure you that we're preparing here as well. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u5	I think you'll have a chance to talk, my grandson will ask a further question. And I'm asking you to stick to the limitations that apply to everyone. Please, my grandson. If you can, Prime Minister, turn off the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Honourable Prime Minister. I can't agree with you either. If I divide 2 million gross by 50,000, I get 40 factors. If I'm being modest, then my factor is fine. You've already answered yourself that you don't have the exact data, how much they carry these different prizes of fuck this mass. So I hope you get this analysis as soon as possible. I think we'll meet after this relationship and they'll be quite accurate, as I mentioned. As far as poverty is concerned, that's how it is. In any case, poverty has two faces, and it's still kind of a shame to admit that you're poor. Given that we have a lot of hidden poverty, as I mentioned, and as long as there are different aunts, uncles and old moms who will cover this difference in household costs, then your data will be accurate. But if we're going straight to reality, I mean, unfortunately, because I don't want my data to be accurate, far away, I want to, I really want to be wrong, so I'm asking you and I want your explicit answer or measures to prevent such black predictions from actually showing up all this hidden poverty. However, you did not respond to the level of gross wages that are the highest, as I mentioned, that we have the highest wage taxes in Slovenia, which we could also see by some statistics, almost 60% of these various contributions to our salaries. On the other hand, I would also appeal to you - now that a new income or tax legislation is being prepared. We all agree that taxes should be taxed or additionally increased for those of the most extremely rich and those of the poor should be forgiven, their burdens reduced. But I'm afraid you're going to hit that middle layer here at the same time. The middle layer, however, moved in every country that spoke of some country’s development or economic growth. So here I appeal to you to answer me, what is the middle layer, or even the middle layer you think you want to extra burden with new taxes and contributions, or there is also a security guard here that will prevent this, as I said before, fear that they would not become less valuable then, I will say, in relation to other EU citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr President, please, if you stick to the limitations that apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u8	Thank you very much. All I've been talking about are official data, analyses published by institutes independent of the government. That way we can deliver this information to you and you can see for yourself whether they're holding it or not. However, we have never and never claimed in the government that poverty as such is not a problem. Of course, poverty is a problem, and therefore we must do our utmost to do so in the part where we can improve the effectiveness of social policy. Last but not least, it shows data. If you compare the rate of poverty in the European Union and in Slovenia, you will find that it is greater there, but if you take into account the rate of poverty without social transfers, you will find that in the European Union there is about the same level of social transfers to a greater reduction in poverty. This suggests that, with existing social transfers, we can better reduce poverty and also reduce social stratification. As for the middle-class burden, I agree with you. Usually this middle class is the one carrying the greatest burden. Part of this discussion will be done together and you will be held in the National Assembly when you consider the new Income Law. That's exactly where the new redistribution will be seen. As for the tax burden on Slovenian wages, however, your claim is that Slovenian wages are among those most burdened, but especially those that are the highest. In fact, in that part, we have the highest income scale in the Income Act. Unlike many European countries in Slovenia, those who have the highest wages have to pay their contributions in proportion to their pay. In other countries, as you probably know, they have an absolute limit. That's the case, for example, Germany. We consciously decided in Slovenia to adopt pension legislation to further burden those who have the highest wages. Therefore, of course, the tax burden of those with high wages is very high. All of this does not reduce the need for additional measures and the monitoring of both social policy and wage policies. I do not say that everything in this area is good and happy; of course, we must prepare additional measures and improve wage policy as well as social policy. Otherwise, the information I've been talking about is available to you and you can look at it and I'll be happy to give it to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u9	My colleague's grandchild, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u10	The actions will be those that confirm your words, but I am not satisfied with the response of the distinguished Prime Minister, so I propose that, in accordance with Article 246, paragraph 2, the National Assembly decide that we will hold a debate on the basis of the reply of the Prime Minister to my question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u11	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the practice so far, we will decide on your proposal that the National Assembly decide to hold a debate on the Prime Minister's response this afternoon at 6.20 p.m. when we come to the vote on the agenda items held. The next question will be raised by colleague Jelinčič to the Prime Minister. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister! As of 10 July 2000, the Slovenian National Party had already asked a question from the Member States concerning the treatment of demographically threatened areas. We linked ourselves to the operation of Radiol in Kostabona, then a demographically threatened area, and had the right to certain tax reliefs, which the Koper tax administration had challenged. We did not get any answer to that question under Mr Drnovska's rule and later, when you were a finance minister. It seems that the then government did not want to deal with demographically endangered areas and did not care about how people lived at that time. After a change, you might say, the regime when you took over the government would expect substantial changes. Thus, on 18 May 2001, we again asked the question of the Member States and received very strange answers, such as did not actually have a tail or head. It was simple to think of what the Ministry was doing, what the tax administration was doing, as if they didn't know why it was going on. On the first question, we have put and sent to you, together with the annexes of the Law on the Taxation of Legal Persons, because we are convinced that the Ministry of Finance or Tax Administration did not read or knew it, then various records, decisions, appeals to records and decisions, provisional insurance decision, appeal to a provisional decision, decision to authorise enforcement, action against an administrative court, request for postponement of enforcement pending the issue of a legal decision, decision of the tax office of Koper and various opinions of experts in this field of tax legislation from Slovenia, I think from three institutions. On 3 September 2001, we tabled a mandatory interpretation, which, upon request from the Government under Mr Puck's command, was then rejected and was a matter of eccentric violation of the law on corporate tax. But you went through it pretty well. On 29 October 2002, we again asked a question and received an answer on 10.12.2002. There's some ruse again, and there's nothing in it. In short, it seems that the legal void or non-compliance with the law, economic law or compliance with the law only continues for certain entities but does not apply to others. I would ask the Prime Minister to answer the question: Does the government intend to change this policy and settle matters for the sake of Radiol as well, or will it continue the injustice in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u14	Your Honor! With regard to the problem you're talking about, I've obtained the following information. It is the case that a new corporate tax law has been implemented, which has laid down in the transitional provisions how the former Law on corporate tax from 1990 and 1991 respectively is taken into account. The previously applicable law provides, in Article 21, in the second and third paragraphs, for those taxable persons operating in areas in demographic danger to be recognised as tax relief, for the first three years 100%, for the fourth 50% and for the fifth year 25%. The problem you are talking about is that it has been assessed in the framework of the tax administration that those taxable persons who, on the date of the entry into force of the new corporate tax law, did not impose a tax relief on employment in the demographicly threatened areas are not entitled to this relief. Therefore, if they have not submitted an application by the date of entry into force. In this case, the administrative court also ruled. The decision was in favour of the defendant-Dursa and confirmed the decision of the tax authority. With regard to the compulsory interpretation, the opinion was also given by the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs in the National Assembly. That secretariat considered that the text submitted was not appropriate for a mandatory interpretation, since its content constitutes such an intervention in a legislative text which is only possible by amending the legislative provisions in the legislative procedure. In other words, there has been some application of tax reliefs in relation to these transitional provisions. In 2001, 8 taxpayers implemented 100% relief, 6 50% and 4 25%, and in 2002 there were six-and-a-half million reliefs. These reliefs were obviously established in those cases where an application was lodged in due time and when it was the basis for this. If you have an additional question, of course, we will prepare a written answer to the specific case.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u15	My friend Jelinčič wants to ask a further question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Prime Minister, you answered correctly, but only partially. In the second half, you have inherited a tax administration, which, of course, must protect the back of the tax administration of Koper, which works very, very strangely and very strangely. After all, in Ljubljana, for example, there is no need to pay taxes on specific tax requirements under the law and on the practice of the tax service, and in Cyprus, under the same circumstances, the tax office imposes a tax obligation while at the same time writing down an indictment for a criminal offence of tax evasion. There is a case that will go to the European Court of Justice. I have here some documentation gathered on this matter, which is an eccentric "pig" such as in Slovenia is still quite a lot. And I don't know, I'm sure that in the European Court of Justice the price that will have to be paid for this case, because a man is willing to stand up and settle inside Slovenia, so that the pig can't go around, the price will certainly be 3-4 times the price that the state will have to pay. The country is already paying for various cases, and for about 80 billion Slovenian tolars are lawsuits before the European Court of Justice, which the state will lose. We have not taken into account here the moral damage to the Republic of Slovenia which it will suffer. I don't know why it's necessary to protect certain, I could say, clicks in certain segments, instead of changing them, settling them and cleaning things up. Certain people simply do not belong to certain jobs and must be thrown out. And something else, when the tax administration makes such mistakes, let them be sanctioned, taken away from them and paid off from that property. It's not like nobody's fault. The state and taxpayers, however, have an increasingly thinning pocket and an ever-increasing hole is in the budget. Then this "flick" hole will also be taxed further, say, culture, so that even now the Slovenians are reading a little bit, then they'll read even less. Like in books. After all, it seems to the government that it is up to the government to have as many "butty" subjects as possible so that it can narrow them down as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u17	Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u18	Your Honor! I do not know this case in detail, so please, if it is possible to send us what you have, and they will look at it at the Ministry of Finance and see if any of what you said about unequal practice is true, and we will act accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. By answering the supplementary question of Comrade Jelinčič, you have answered all the questions raised today. This will close the question of Members and Members. Yesterday we received the answers of the ministerial assembly, today the Prime Minister. At 11 a.m., the National Assembly will move on to a second reading of the proposal for a law amending the Act on Offences against Public Order and Peace. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members, with a first-signed colleague, Jakić. By 11:00, when we continue with the 26th session, I'm breaking up.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u20	Dear Members, the government representative, a nice greeting! We're moving to five. On the other hand, the proposal for a law amending the law on infringements of the law of public order and peace. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with first-signed Roman Jakić. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the bill for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Jakich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u21	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues! The existence of prostitution is a fact that we can no longer keep our eyes closed. We think that our society is mature enough to deal openly with the problem of prostitution. There is an increase in public understanding of this issue, especially after you have regulated the prostitution of two members of the European Union, Germany and the Netherlands. In addition, a lot of energy and political will have been invested in this project, as is clear from initiatives in the National Assembly. The first such initiatives were launched ten years ago. A general estimate is that about 1,500 prostitutes occur per million inhabitants, while no evaluation is available for prostitutes. So there should be about 3,000 people in the Republic of Slovenia who surrender to prostitution. Although there are no official data, the police estimate that in Slovenia there are 1,400 prostitutes or persons who surrender to prostitution, Slovenian nationals, citizens or permanent residents. The potentials include or are estimated by the police to include foreigners who have obtained work permits as dancers in the ensemble or as auxiliary workers and who have been hired by the owners of the establishments offering the artistic programme. In addition, potential prostitutes could also include foreigners living in Slovenia without regulated status. According to our estimates, the benefits of sexual service in the Republic of Slovenia range from 38 000 to 57 000 permanent clients and from 5 to 8% of men aged 15 to 64. In this business, if I may say so, the police estimate that between €10 million and €15 million will turn not only for sexual services but also for so-called service activities. Today in the world, we are focusing on three approaches to dealing with prostitution. The first model is the prohibition of prostitution, the second model is the abolition of the prohibition of prostitution and the third intermediate model, which combines both approaches, says police surveillance, sanitary supervision, tolerance zones, brothels or public houses. As modern legislation does not take human rights more into account, as well as the civil rights of marginal social groups, these include, of course, persons who commit themselves to prostitution, increasingly following the model of the abolition of the prohibition of prostitution or its decriminalisation. Prostitution is also a job and the decision for it can be completely free. This is also evident from the findings of empirical studies that some persons enter this activity voluntarily while others force it. New forms of prostitution are emerging where prostitutes and prostitutes are no longer victims, do not have intermediaries and think that their activity is equivalent to that of others. In addition to prostitution, which is conditioned by the struggle for survival, there is also a prostitution that is negotiated by the desire for surplus material goods. A new moment is, of course, the Court of Justice of the European Community, established in Luxembourg, which marked prostitution as an activity equal to all other economic activities. The arguments that cautioned that prostitution is prohibited or at least socially unacceptable and therefore cannot be considered as other economic activities was not accepted by the Court. The activity has been referred to as an equal economic or acquisition activity, to quote: "in which the operator agrees to the customer's request in exchange for payment and without producing or transporting material goods." This court has also pointed out that in reality prostitution is permitted in practice in all Member States of the European Union. State intervention therefore makes sense only when an individual or an individual is forced into prostitution and in the event of abuse of prostitutes and prostitutes. Why have we decided to amend the Law on Offences against Public Order and Peace? Prostitution is treated in our legislation as an offence and an activity as such does not constitute a crime. Article 10, paragraph 5, of the Law on Offences against Public Order and Peace prescribes a penalty of up to two months in prison for the person or person who submits himself to prostitution, participates, permits or supports him. The sixth point, however, specifically defines the organization, preparation and support of sexual immorality. Although all acts related to the organisation of prostitution are prohibited, there are no provisions in the legislation concerning customers or clients. We have to ask ourselves, whose problem is really prostitution. Prostitution is seen primarily as a problem of prostitutes and prostitutes and customers are protected. You don't talk about them, and you don't punish them. In fact, prostitution is as much as demand. So prostitution is also a problem for those who ask for these sexual services. For that reason, the act of prostitution should be abolished as an offence. Persecution authorities rarely intervene in the event of prostitution. The reason is that the level of prostitution in Slovenia is high, it is said, is little so-called road prostitution, which would disturb the public with public demonstrations and disturb public order and peace. Fearing those who feel that decriminalisation would affect the mass phenomenon of road prostitution, as well as the police cancel out by stating that the Act on Offences against Public Order and Peace contains sufficient safeguards to prevent this phenomenon. This phenomenon increases Article 11, paragraph 3, of this Act, which provides that up to 120,000 tolls are fined by money or imprisonment for up to 30 days is punishable by an offence that is drunk and disturbing in a public place, obstructs traffic or violates public morality. As far as Article 6(10) is concerned, in recent years the police have not submitted applications for sexual immorality to the judges because they believe that the concept - and, of course, in my personal opinion - of sexual immorality is too vague and leaves both the police and the judges entirely free to judge such acts. Thus, individuals or individuals could be punished for various forms of sexual practices or even for sexual orientation, it is said, homosexuality. And what are the goals and principles of the proposed law? In Slovenia, due to the relative health awareness of persons who surrender to prostitution, relative inattention, it is said that there is almost no road prostitution, and individual or organised in small groups we can introduce a so-called model of lifting the prohibition or model of decriminalisation. An example of this is found mainly in the Netherlands and Germany, which have established a model for the abolition of the prohibition of prostitution with a system of very loose regulation. There is no significant difference compared to other activities, in particular the registration of activities, health, social and pension insurance. In doing so, the applicants would like to draw attention to this and I stress that the model of decriminalisation does not constitute the legalisation of prostitution. The concept of legalisation is to legalise all practices that are linked to prostitution. This, in addition to the activities themselves, includes the offences of bribery and intervention in prostitution. Decriminalisation, however, tries to remove from the law provisions on criminal offences relating to the organisation of prostitution from the law provisions on the act of prostitution as an offence. Decriminalisation means the recognition of civil rights for prostitutes and prostitutes so that they can choose for themselves whether to engage in prostitution. This removes the possibility of closing and punishing these persons. For the proponents, the decriminalisation model represents a new policy of so-called self-organisation of this activity. The removal of the prohibition has exacerbated legislation on exploitation by prostitution. We are also following these trends, as we are committed to increasing the limits of the penalties prescribed for the offences of pimping and forcing prostitution, because in these cases it is a serious breach of human integrity with harmful consequences. In addition, the perpetrators of these crimes are usually also perpetrators of all other crimes related to prostitution, such as serious bodily harm, drug-storage, slavery etc. What else is there to do? Look, we agree that decriminalisation should not promote prostitution and create conditions for the exploitation of prostitutes and prostitutes. It therefore raises the question of how to decriminalize prostitution and arrange it so that prostitution is not encouraged. The amendment of the Law on Offences against Public Order and Peace means only the first step in solving these issues. Once prostitution is no longer treated as an offence, the legal basis for further regulation of this area is also given. We are aware that the model of decriminalisation raises a number of questions. For this reason, we have also addressed the Government with an initiative to set up an inter-ministerial government expert group. Quality decisions will only be possible with the expertise of the expert group and, of course, experts in the field of criminology, sociology, psychology and so on will have to be involved. This is the only way to ensure a sufficient level of expertise for making the right decisions. At the same time, we, as proponents, believe that the following issues need to be addressed: the establishment and control of this activity; and the health situation of persons who surrender to prostitution. Social or pension insurance should be arranged for those engaged in paying sex. Compulsory health checks of prostitutes and prostitutes should be prescribed in order to make customers safer. Public health protection is also at the back of everything. Many doctors, by their professional salary, advocate the control of prostitution, thus limiting the spread of sexual diseases. If Slovenia does not have the appropriate rules requiring adequate testing and treatment of people engaged in paying sex, HIV infection will also increase, and thus harmful consequences. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! If, for the end or for the sake of your decision, I give the response of some prominent lawyers who have responded to one of the public occupiers to the question raised, which goes a step further. They were asked whether they were for the legalization of prostitution and public houses. At this round table, Mr Anton Tomažič drew attention to this case of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg, which, in the case of Czech and Polish prostitutes against the Netherlands, ruled that prostitution is an economic activity equivalent to all other economic activities. Mr Tone Jerovšek, who was absolutely for legalisation, continued, saying that under natural law a person is born free and remains free and if he can market his head, he can also market other parts of the body. The point of some kind of craftsmanship is to determine whether this activity will be carried out at home or in public houses and to provide health care. Mr Krivic concurred with these allegations. He pointed out, however, that the European judicature was not to be understood as a command to future members, namely that it was not a command to legalise prostitution, but that, in the event that they had done so, they should not discriminate against its operators in relation to the operators of other economic activities. Mr Šime Ivanko felt the same way. Mrs Zdenka Cerar, of course, did not want to define this issue. However, it advocated the immediate decriminalisation of prostitutes for offences and ensured that fraud and any violence in this regard would continue to be strictly prosecuted by prosecutors. This is also the intention of the proposers of this law that, of course, the energy needed to prevent prostitution must be directed primarily towards the part which is illegal and which is also punishable by law. On this occasion, I would like to thank everyone who has been prepared or ready to bite into this sour apple and without prejudice begin to solve the problem of prostitution in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I'd like to ask the vice president of the committee of mags. Majdo Potter to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u23	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State. Second reading of the draft law tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Roman Jakić to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 4 December 2001 replacing the text of the proposed Act amending and supplementing the Act on Offences against Public Order and Peace, the Internal Policy Committee held its 35th session on 7 May 2003. He took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which pointed out that the provision of Article 1 of the draft Law on the deletion of Article 5 and Article 6 of the Law on Offences against Public Order and Peace in their entire text and content was significantly broader, since, in the context of the proposal to decriminalise the surrender of prostitution, he also proposed for so-called support actions, namely cooperation, allowing and supporting prostitution, as well as for the organisation, preparation or support of sexual immorality or the granting of premises for that purpose. In doing so, it explicitly referred to international legislation, binding Slovenia as the legal successor to the abolitionist system for the treatment of prostitution, under which prostitution is not in itself criminalised, prohibited and punishable by all acts. With the proposed improvements to the text, she pointed out that the whole set of issues governed by the Law on Offences against Public Order and Peace should be re-examined in those areas where prison sentences are prescribed in the light of the new Act on Offences which he had abandoned in prison. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the State Council, which did not support the proposal. The Committee held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and amendments, adopted the proposed amendments, as well as all the articles of the law. You have before you a further proposal for a law amending the Act on Offences against Public Order and Peace, and the Committee on Internal Policy is proposing to the National Assembly to adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I give my word to a government representative. Mr Miha Molan, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u25	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports amendments to the provisions of the Act on Offences against Public Order and Peace in the proposed text. Therefore, the original text - deletion of points 5 and 6 of Article 10, after discussion in the Committee on Internal Policy or the Working Body, part 5 and point 6 of Article 10. This is the first step that has been taken, as stated in the presentation. It is the decriminalisation of one part of the offence related to the sale of a body or to prostitution. However, we are aware of the need for a comprehensive solution to this issue, and for this purpose we already call an interdepartmental working group dealing with this taboo with major or minor problems, given that there have been virtually no discussions so far and very few studies that could provide qualified answers to the necessary solutions in the future. In any event, this working group will continue its work and we hope to draw up appropriate proposals for solutions to the legalisation or regulation of this issue within the framework of the acquis as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Hereinafter we will hear the views of the groups of Members. Given the absence of opposition colleagues, he will first present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. First correction: not all opposition colleagues are absent [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u28	Some, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u29	but only a coalition of Slovenia. [[...]] There are two opposition parties present at the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u30	I'm sorry - some. Here you go, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The Slovenian national party has always advocated not only the decriminalisation of prostitution but the legalisation of prostitution. We are aware that this law, which we absolutely support, is only the first step in this part, which will require quite a lot of effort. After all, decriminalisation of prostitution is part of a small part that will greatly help to change what will have to be changed. Indeed, in the case of the legalisation of prostitution, a number of matters need to be settled. First of all, this post should be entered in the register of employment as an economic activity or acquisition activity; health insurance will have to be regulated and pension insurance will have to be arranged. Similarly, the tax administration will have its word, which will certainly be happy to accept the additional profits that will flow into the state treasury. The fact is, they're going to make a lot more money because, given what the police say, they have bad data, I'd say. Even if we assume that 1,400 prostitutes a day earn 50 euros, this is about 25 million euros a year, not 10 to 15 million, as the police say. But I think they deserve more or most deserve more. In short, this activity will bring something positive to the state treasury. Another thing is: if not elsewhere, at least among politicians, there will be significantly less frustrated people when they can ever have sex, even if they have to pay for it, and then Slovenian politics will be much more relaxed, much more orderly, and above all they will not do the stupid things that some politicians are doing today. Once again, I say, the Slovenian national party absolutely agrees with this law and we will support the adoption of this law. However, we expect that in the shortest time, there will also be a broad section that will also address all the issues that I have recalled at the beginning of my statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u33	Thank you for your word. Once again, everyone, welcome! The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats adopted the basic text of the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Offences, not because it would oppose the decriminalisation of persons who surrender to prostitution, but because the proposal has also decriminalized all those involved in supporting acts of prostitution. The proposed inclusion of these crimes in criminal proceedings, while partially eliminating our concerns, should, in our view, be amended first by a criminal code, then by the law under consideration, or should be simultaneously amended. Although the proposed changes are partial, they do mean an improvement in the situation for those who surrender to prostitution. But it's a long way to go. It is not sufficient to conclude that prostitution exists. In doing so, it is usually added that it is the oldest craft. The measures should aim to reduce the scope and gradually address the causes of prostitution. This cannot be limited to our country alone, but to the linkage with trafficking in human beings, which is the most likely to leak into prostitution, in cooperation with the European Union countries, as this is also their political priority. In the United List of Social Democrats, prostitution is not viewed as an economic activity comparable to any other economic activity. Many additional problems are emerging and their resolution is not necessarily in favour of those whose situation is to be regulated and improved by the legalisation of prostitution. Decreminilisation will, hopefully, eliminate at least the worst injustice. For prostitution is understood as a form of violence against women or those who surrender to it. The persistence of prostitution to the root in the belief that it is natural to exploit people, especially women and even girls, for their own enjoyment. The company has, of course, shown relatively high tolerance for service users in all periods of regional and cultural differences, and therefore is a real problem in demand. Prostitution is a serious form and a result of discrimination against women. Their economic situation is worse, their entry into the labour market is harder, better paid services are more difficult to access. The same remuneration for equal work has not yet been achieved. Other social and economic causes could be listed. How else to explain the fact that half a million women who surrender or are forced to surrender to prostitution come into the European Union countries every year with trafficking in people from Eastern European and Asian countries. Prostitution and human trafficking concern fundamental human rights, gender equality, racial discrimination and economic exploitation, as well as the issue of violations of the rule of law and the control of crime and corruption. Because these problems are also evident in us and because the complementary proposal of the law decriminalises only persons who surrender to prostitution, we will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Vojko Celigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u35	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! In the DeSUS Group, we are aware of the problem and multiplasticity of the issue of prostitution, which is also a very serious problem for us in Slovenia. This is certainly a clearer problem in the Western countries and the European Union. When we open our doors to Europe, we also open them for anything negative that can come to us from Europe. Even in this area. We understand the problem of prostitution as part of the broader problem of trafficking in human beings, including the slavery of victims by the organisers of this trabat. In our view, the proportion of those who engage in prostitution by choice is significantly lower than the share of those who are victims. From here on, the aim of the proposer is to decriminalise these persons, but to continue to pursue those who support, organise and enrich themselves in this work. The Group will support the proposed amendments to Articles 1, 2, and 3, and will support the proposed amendments to the Act on Offences against Public Order and Peace. However, we expect as soon as possible a comprehensive legal regime in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Dušan Vukko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u37	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues and colleagues! In the LDS Group, we support the proposal for a new law on crimes against public order and peace, with which the proponents, among whom colleague Jakič, most actively decriminalises prostitution. The resilience and adaptability of prostitution to all possible social conditions is evidence that the regulation of this area is no longer possible to delay. Of course, moral concerns in some are just a poor excuse for not settling this area. The proposed amendment indicates the direction in which it is leaning, I hope that the policy of regulating the area of prostitution in Slovenia will be pushed towards decriminalisation. Why do we support this amendment of the law in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia? Firstly, the incrimination of prostitution has proved to be extremely ineffective in the past. Incrimination only confirms the appropriateness of moral values, and in fact this means simply a blinding of the eyes before the phenomenon which is widespread in society. The system of prohibitions, prohibitions, has also proved to be ineffective. Prohibiting the exercise of prostitution is moving underground, away from the eyes of the public and the law and thus into the hands of organised crime, which should not be our interest The new law follows the regulations of modern European countries, which increasingly tend to decriminalise prostitution activities in addressing this issue. It should be stressed that these days new forms of prostitution are emerging, where prostitutes are no longer victims, subject to the grace of pimps and criminal organisations, but are engaged in crafts as independent entrepreneurs, if I may put it that way. Decriminalisation itself, as such, allows the distinction between prostitution and voluntary and forced prostitution. This enables the authorities, both the police and the prosecution, to tighten the use of prostitution and trade in white goods, which is already present. The lifting of the prohibition will, of course, shift attention from a prostitute or a prostitute to an act of exploitation by prostitution and abuse of these persons. Migration controls will be increased to monitor the legal entry of potential prostitutes and control of groups suspected of dealing with organised reselling of white goods. For these reasons decriminalisation should be supported. It is also supported by the relative health awareness of Slovenian prostitutes, the relative invisibility of their activities, individual organisation or organisation in small groups. In the LDS Group, we are aware that the task has not yet been completed. The proposal by the proposers represents only the first step towards regulating this area. Further - and here the appeal to the proponents - it will be necessary for all individuals involved in prostitution to ensure the same conditions as all those engaged in other activities or who have a different profession. That's another story.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Diaci will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. Much has already been said about today's amendment of the law and it is difficult to add anything else. It is essential, in my view and in the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, to recognize and recognize the fact that modern countries - and thus, of course, democratic and open countries, but not religious dictatorships - have an increasingly pragmatic attitude towards prostitution and that the intervention of the State is only meaningful when an individual or an individual is forced or forced into prostitution. On the other hand, in our SMS, we believe that the State should adopt the attitude that has been clearly defined by the Court in Luxembourg mentioned earlier, so that prostitution is equivalent to all other economic activities. Therefore, in the SMS we support and are pleased that the matter is moving in the right direction, and we hope that someday we will be so far away that prostitution - we hope to be as small as possible - only one of the everyday irrelevant things without all the negative effects. Above all, that there will be no ideological contradictions and division of politics and society on this subject, because we do not forget in the end everything ends with the right to choose, and we respect this right in SMS at all, and fortunately we are not the only individual or individual decision to engage in prostitution is a matter of an autonomous decision and is human right. It also seems important to me once again to point out that in Slovenia we are witnessing relatively good health awareness of prostitutes or prostitutes, so this is also the right way to prevent the transmission of communicable diseases. This activity, i.e. prostitution, is, if we push it underground and hide it, it can be very dangerous, as far as the above mentioned matters are concerned, i.e. health threats, while, of course, it represents a fertile ground for a variety of forms of crime. In general, we can certainly agree with the proposaler, who rightly notes that the amendment of the law on offences against public order and peace is only a first step, i.e. only half a solution to the problem, and that decriminalisation should not encourage prostitution. Therefore, even after the adoption of this law, the State will have to continue to act preventively and decisively, and the announcement of the so-called decriminalisation package of laws sounds promising. Therefore, work in this area will not be rapidly running out, nor will experience in other countries that have handled the problem of prostitution in one way or another show that the flawless regime does not mean that any positive change will bring with it a negative one, but the essence is that there are more positive issues. This could also be an assessment of this bill, so we will support it in SMS. Above all, let us not forget this law and possible futures: repressive measures in this area are generally ineffective, taking the valuable resources and time we need in other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group would be presented by mag. Janez Kramberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I would like to briefly present the position of our Group of Members. So prostitution is actually a complex phenomenon and it also presents complex problems, touches on moral, social, health and criminal acts, and I think it is necessary to deal with this issue in a comprehensive way. The proposed law, the Act of Offences against Public Order and Peace, somehow does not solve the matter in its entirety. In fact, the criminal code as a criminal offence provides for pimping and interference with prostitution, while the law on offences against public order and peace remains criminalised supporting acts. It means cooperation and allowing and supporting prostitution. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that it would be more appropriate for this law, the law on offences, to be adopted in a way definitively by amending the criminal code, where we would define the concept of pimping and intervention in prostitution. I therefore propose, on behalf of the Group of Members, that, in accordance with the business options, the third reading of this Act should be postponed to the time when the criminal code would also be amended and prepared in this respect. A representative of the government may also be able to identify himself until this initiative is available to him in accordance with the rules of procedure. Otherwise, our parliamentary group will support the amendment bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u42	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday 29.5.2003 following the end of the last item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. And at 12.05 we will move on to the second item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the housing bill. I thank the Government very much for its cooperation and I am adjourning the meeting until 12.05 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u43	Dear Members, honourable Members, representative and representative of the Government. Good-bye. We're moving to 2. It's a second-hand proposal for housing law. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration of the law of the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Representative of the Government of Mag. Janez Kopač, Minister of Environment, Space and Energy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, Members, Guests. The amended proposal for a housing law or a second reading bill retains the content of the law contained in the first reading, which means that it is being upgraded after a very broad discussion that this law has been given. I must say that there has not yet been, and probably not a good time, a law that would have been given as much extensive consideration as this law had been given. He has passed the so-called public hearing by municipalities, has ceased to be presented in Parliament in general, and has undergone numerous round tables and bilateral meetings for a whole range of stakeholders. At the Ministry or at the government, we really tried to take into account everything that could still be put into the concept of law from all these discussions. I am sure that this has also worked, to a large extent, and a few questions or a few wishes of individual stakeholders have remained unfulfilled in the form of a legal text, which, of course, is not necessary if you follow a certain concept. This law is still, in our opinion, amended after all these treatments, and follows the basic objectives. These include: more efficient operation of multiple dwellings, safety and transparency of housing owners' assets, the development of different forms of rental and self-sustainment arrangements and the unprofitable singleness of rentals, the fulfilment of the social adjustment system in the social field, the protection of newly built apartments and the establishment of all necessary records relating to housing. The concept of non-profit rent, which is something that the government has not proposed in the first and second readings, has brought this text, which has been incorporated into the draft law by the home infrastructure committee, and the government has supported it at the committee itself or the government representatives - which means one more, I can say, a new quality of the law. This indicates that non-profit rental is a permanent lease and is linked to the fulfilment of the income status that is checked every five years. As long as the tenant is no longer entitled to a non-profit apartment, the lease may be converted into a rental contract for a commercial apartment, and later again into a non-profit if the social situation of the tenant would change. This has no effect on contracts which have already been concluded, this is a provision which applies exclusively to non-profit leases which will arise after the application of this Act, so that there is no misunderstanding. As it is said, all other additions are basically the finalization of the marriage solutions in the first reading. The government supports all amendments made by the four coalition parties to be decided today. These amendments, in our view, provide the necessary balance between the systemic objectives of the law and the necessary conditions for the implementation of the law, taking into account the potential for budgetary support of the state and municipalities in the residential area. However, the Government does not support all other amendments, with the exception of one amendment from the Youth Party and one amendment from the Social Democratic Party, because it estimates that some proposals go away from the objectives of the law and some proposals are acceptable in their basic thinking, but I am sure that we have taken them into account in the government or in the government text more appropriately. However, some of these proposals, which we do not support, are unacceptable in terms of extremely high projected financial burdens. We therefore propose that you support the draft law, together with the amendments of the four coalition parties and the two amendments, the Youth Party and the Social Democratic Party, which the government also supports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Branko Janc, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. At the four sessions of the 40th meeting, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment held a second reading of the proposal for housing law submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the ordinary legislative procedure. Representatives of the Local Self-Government and Regional Development Commission of the Republic of Slovenia, the Housing Chamber of Slovenia, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of tenants, the Association of Owners of Relaxed Property, the Association of Slovenian Consumers, the Association of Consumer Associations of Slovenia, the Association of Pensioners of Slovenia, the Council for the Protection of the Rights of Tenants of Apartments in the Municipality of Ljubljana, the Property Fund, pension and invalidity insurance, the Owners' Association of Slovenia and the Institute and Regional Tourism Organizations for the Development and Organization of Apartments and Private Rooms participated in the meeting of the Committee. At the request of the Group of Members, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia held a general debate at its 23rd session on the proposal for a law and adopted the conclusion that the draft law was suitable for further consideration. Pursuant to Article 94 of the Law on Local Self-Government and Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly, by letter of 11.2.2003, sent a proposal for a housing law to the mayors of municipalities and municipalities and invited them to give their opinion no later than 28 February of this year. Within the scheduled period, the mayor of Kočevje, the municipality of Slovenj Gradec, the secretary-general of the municipalities of Slovenia, and subsequently the mayor of Izola were sent an opinion. The Committee was informed of the above-mentioned opinions The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment was also informed of the opinion of the Commission on Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed law was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in which it drew attention to some inconsistencies and shortcomings of individual solutions. These comments are 84. The Committee adopted the following materials: comments by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, opinions and comments by the Association of Pensioners of Slovenia, the positions and proposals of the amendments of the Association of Renters of Slovenia, the proposed amendments of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the comments of the Council for the Protection of the Rights of Tenants of Apartments in the Municipality of Ljubljana, the proposals of amendments of the Association of Consumer Associations of Slovenia, the proposed amendment of the Institute or the regional tourism organisation for the development and organisation of apartments and private rooms, and the opinion of Ivan Peter Benk from Ljubljana. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, including its amendments. The amendments to the law were tabled by Franz Lenko, Ambassador Jože Tanko, Ambassador Jože Tanko and Aloise Sok, the New Slovenia Group and the LDS Group of Members, the United List of Social Democrats, the SLS Group of Members and the DeSUS Group of Members. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment has adopted amendments to certain articles, namely the two amendments by Ambassador Franco Lenka, the seven amendments by Ambassador Jožet Tank, the four amendments by Members Jožet Tank and Aloys Sok, the amendment by the New Slovenia Group and the one hundred and twenty-two amendments by the four groups. On the basis of comments and suggestions received from municipalities, the opinion of the Commission on Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, other institutions and organisations and the interested public, the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the discussions at the meeting of the Committee, the Committee adopted and adopted 34 own amendments. In the light of the amendments adopted, a proposal for a housing law, which is an integral part of the report of the Committee, is prepared in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be approved in the form it is submitted, together with the amendments tabled by the Government as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at the 23rd meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups. That is why we are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 26.5.2003; and on the bench we have also received the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia to the 28th Article of the Housing Law. I am putting to the debate Article 27 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 28 and the two amendments, i.e. the basic amendment is under review, the drafter is the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia, and this amendment has been tabled as an amendment to the amendment of which the proposer is the Government and is on a special one - it is not under review on 27.5.2003, with the head of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Grandchild.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Our Group insists that both work be done, the first part of which the government has already won and we thank you, and we also insist that the fifth paragraph be changed. For the problems of non-payment of operating expenses, which may arise in a multi-housing house, I think they will be worse from day to day. As the European Union approaches, we will also find that more and more apartments - rented - will no longer be owned as much as we have now. That we have so many equity apartments is also the result of a further year, I will say, after the 1992 independence, when it was adopted - thank you, Madam Vice-President, for helping - the housing law, which has enabled the cheap to buy back the social housing then. This is why Slovenia currently has a very large number of ownership apartments and we are at the European summit on this issue. However, new taxes - real estate taxes, other taxes, an increase in income all of this will cause many people who now have an apartment to have no regular income, will find it difficult to maintain their own form and decide to sell and rent the same or other. Of course, we can also have some settlements here, which will be owned by some legal, natural persons who will deal exclusively with the broadcasting of these on the market. In view of the current composition, where this process takes place slowly then, say, at some entrance in the countryside where, say, the normal number of dwellings between 10 and 15 is higher in larger cities and then it is not known if someone does not pay these costs. But where there are fewer of these units, it's known if someone doesn't settle their obligations, and with the tenants, we know what it's like. That it is already difficult to pay rent and if these movements are large, then some simply forget about these costs, where there is no obligation, these are usually arrangements, and many also happen that the account comes to the tenant not to the owner. Therefore, we propose that the owner here is subsidiaryly responsible and assumes these costs. If he is already renting, then he should also ensure that he provides such tenants who will pay their expenses and do not spoil some air in a block. I can tell you this, for example, if there are such two non-payers of some common cost, then other mine owners to pay for it, and then we can have disorder and in general there may be problems not to talk about mutual relations, etc., such as living in the same place. [[...]] That is what I think, Mr Minister, that we must look forward to when there will be a lot of mercenary relations - not what it is now. If we now provide for an obligation to settle these costs, I think we will also make a significant contribution to the payment discipline throughout the country. In addition, the state will have another benefit: this will also regulate the area of the grey housing market and there will also be a little more order for the country to collect a lot of money here, which is not now because many apartments are being turned into black. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. According to the proposal of the housing law, as you have before you, owners of market and service apartments are responsible for subsidiary - what you are proposing for all owners. The owners of non-profit apartments are not, according to our proposal, but you suggest yes. This would mean that owners of non-profit dwellings who cannot choose their own tenants, but are given in some way, are also responsible for any failure to pay their electricity consumption, waste disposal, water costs and so on. We believe that this is a completely disproportionate obligation, which, after all, is guaranteed by the tenants themselves, i.e. by the users of these services. In the event of non-payment, the operator's task is to recover these amounts of debt and, therefore, is a cost of possible non-payment, this risk has already been calculated at the current level of the housing management commission. In short, you are here proposing that operators, that owners of non-profit dwellings also be liable for the costs that the tenants have to pay for all of these things I mentioned earlier, but at the same time you have not proposed an amendment to reduce the rent for the tenants, who are now provided to take care of such things. I know that this proposal by the managers was also within the Chamber of Economics of Slovenia, but the debate on the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment is, I think, quite uniformly demonstrated that this is not appropriate or that this is a stick with two ends; you are only one principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Grandchild, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u52	Thank you. I'll use that answer when we're in Article 46, because what you've just said is that the congregations or the nonprofits don't know who you're getting there. However, we are not in favour of establishing some ghettos, but we also need to be careful - municipalities have, for example, when we talk about municipalities, almost every entrance to one apartment, if not the other, has been imposed, some of the basement basement apartments were subsequently assigned to solve some social problems. And I think that even here, when it provides for the legal obligations of these apartments, it is necessary to pay these costs - let it increase the subsidies then!I am talking about that - because this fund, because article 36 speaks of compliance - how we will then recover the money here too. If someone cannot, does not want to pay, then let these social institutions or state institutions take care of the payment or recovery or reduce other subsidies to that effect. These apartments are now scattered everywhere, both in some better neighborhoods and in some worse ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u54	Thank you. Just for a little while. Your comparison, dear Mr. Grandchild, I don't think it was appropriate. You compare this with the recovery of funds for the reserve fund. The payment of funds to the reserve fund is a matter related to the ownership of the apartment. If someone owns the property, of course, he must also assume the obligations that he owns. But he can get rid of that property, after all. The costs that you are talking about in your amendment are the cost of using the apartment. Of course, that's something else. If someone is using these services, they must also be paid for, and the cancellations can also be used. It's also in his power, and that's why I think -- in short, these are two different stories that can't be simplified and compared like it's the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Can I close the debate? Yes, you can. I am putting to the debate article 31 and the amendment to this article. Anybody want to talk? We have two amendments. Amendment to the amendment and amendment. No, no, no. I am concluding and putting to the debate Article 33 and the amendment to this Article. Since no one wants to discuss, I conclude the debate and open the debate on Article 41 and the amendment to this Article. I conclude the debate. I am opening a debate on Article 45 and the amendment. With regard to the review of the amendments to Article 45, I would like to point out that there has been a mistake, namely, the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia under Article 46, and not to Article 45, as was mistakenly stated in the review of the amendments. This is the only way to discuss the amendment under order number 1 in the review. The new Slovenia's parliamentary group is the proposer and is mistakenly listed under Article 45, and is tabled under Article 46. So it's about Article 45 and the amendment. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude and put to debate Article 46 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia. Mr. Grandchild, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. I didn't want to do it again before, Mr. Minister. The comparison is very good if we look at the final result. It's important who pays in the end. Here too, if we write that they will be owners, we also have such and different ones, and congregations, for example. I fear that the congregations already do not have enough money, we will take some more of it away from them, and certainly they will not pay enough for these matters. In the final stage, however, the tenants will be obliged by the contract to pay these costs because the owner will give this as a condition to the tenants to pay these costs in addition to the rent. That's how it usually is - that, Mr. Secretary, I don't care now, I'm interested in who pays in the end. In the end, the renter will pay. And that's why it's totally fine compared to the one before. If he's already paying for it here, then it would be logical for the owners to also be able to pay for those costs, which we talked about earlier - but well, let's leave it now. However, this fund does not seem right to us, because, as I said before, it will be at those costs - but it may even happen that the owner, for example, will not want to pay and then the tenant will be forced to do so, even if he is not forced to do so by other roommates. That is how I think we would rather leave this to the owners' agreement and agree on it. I do not see the need for such a fund to exist, except that it may be the interests of these management lobbyes, because, of course, they have some money provided and it may be easier to invent such investments, which are not necessarily necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u58	Article 46 refers to the payment to the reserve fund, which is already the substance of the real law code. This is an exception to the fact that municipalities, the state and public housing funds can also form their reserve funds. Payment to the reserve fund is something that is tied to ownership. Every owner, not a tenant, will have to pay for this. Where he gets this money, whether he gets it from rent or from his salary or from anything else, of course, is his business. But it certainly has to pay off. The manager’s notice of request for payment is already an executive address, which also allows for compulsory recovery if the payments do not occur. So there wouldn't be any misunderstandings. We are now preparing a submarital act when we invest in the reserve fund, and I will only give numbers on how high these payments are supposed to be; for dwellings aged between the ages of 10 and 10, the monthly payment should be 1,784 tolars, for dwellings aged between the ages of 30 and 60, the monthly payment should be 2,654, for dwellings over the age of 60 and 3,033 tolars per month. We're talking about an average big apartment. We're talking, in short, about amounts I don't think will be any particular problem for apartment owners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. But I'm only gonna ask one question. Do you not feel that this creates, say, a monopoly on the market of major management companies?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. I would like to express my support for the reserve fund to remain, as many of the apartments that have come to be owned by former tenants are, of course, in such a state that they also need more repairs. Usually, it is extremely difficult in a short period of time to gather more resources to, say, repair the roof or other institutional waters that are usually the subject of repairs. Of course, it makes sense for owners to collect these funds monthly, annually, and then at a time when more work is really needed, this is also done. At the same time, it is possible, of course, to have such a fund at your disposal, but to collect offers that can be more competitive than those that are somehow not strong enough to pay, if I say so. However, if this fund exists of course, I think that these negotiations can also be better and a truly cheaper service can be achieved on the market. So I think that this provision in the law must remain and I support the text as set out in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I didn't understand the question very well. It is difficult for me to imagine that the formation of a reserve fund would constitute any reason to identify anyone from the market of management services providers. The manager will have to do this, this is his additional obligation, while on the competitiveness of individual housing managers on the market I think that many other things affect them, but I do not see any direct connection to this. However, I must say that, after all, the obligation to form a reserve fund is an obligation that has already been in force since 1 January of this year and is enshrined in the real law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Can I close the debate? I conclude, that is to say, the debate on Article 46 and the amendment to this Article and I am putting Article 47 into discussion. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate. I am opening the debate on Article 52 and the amendment to this Article. There's no desire to discuss it. Fine, I'll conclude. I'm putting paragraph 62 into the debate. Anybody want to talk? And an amendment. No, no, no. I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 75, the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia. Mr. Grandchild, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u66	Well, we doubt here that this article will be feasible in single orders, in prepayments or in advance payments, so we would ask the Minister here for his comment. This is also why I propose that the article be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Such an article is, in our view, essential for the normal or smooth functioning of managers. In short, it's in the interests of the managers themselves. The manager is not the bearer of the costs related to the multi-inhabitation building, those relating to the use of electricity, water and so on, but he owes the resources he collects to third parties; and most importantly, it is not only for them to report the debtors and the amounts due for possible recovery and recovery to the service provider - that is, the public undertaking supplying the water, the public undertaking supplying the electricity and so on - and not the administrator. It is therefore difficult to understand this proposal, because we believe that this article is even necessary for managers to have very clear responsibilities or responsibilities; in short, they will have no greater responsibilities than they would like to have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u69	Thank you very much. No one wants to discuss it anymore, so I am concluding and opening the debate on Article 87. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to the debate on Article 91 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. With regard to this Article, I would like to point out that it has already been established in the discussion by the Infrastructure Committee that it is necessary for the possible payment of its own participation and the payment of the security to lay down the conditions under the Rules and to add a social collective. Although the representatives of the various associations of tenants have proposed that this part of this article, we are talking about paragraph 8, is deleted, but I have not thought about it, and I have also presented to the Ministry the initiative that this paragraph should be designed so that owners will have to take a balanced view of all types of applicants entitled to a non-profit apartment. For a non-profit apartment is in itself intended for those who cannot just secure their own apartment. If, of course, I had announced the original proposal, it would mean that someone who would rent a new apartment - but usually this is also for young families - should pay bail first, then we should provide some additional funds or their own participation in a way either from savings or take credit for it. The amendment, as proposed, seems appropriate to me and is necessary, since in various parts of Slovenia, in the past, they have faced the fact that dwellings were not required under this condition for the payment of the security or the payment of their own participation in some cases even to the pensioners, although only the apartments were urgently needed and met the other conditions of the tender. The purpose of its own participation is, of course, to enrich the non-profit housing organisation, either the municipality or the one who builds apartments for non-profit purposes, by enriching its financial structure in such a way that it also acquires the means of its own participation. In this way, of course, the housing fund increases, the rate of construction, and, of course, the applicants come to these apartments. That's why I didn't think it made sense for these associations to just shut down this institute. This proposed amendment seems to me to have found the right measure, because the purpose of its own participation is not in itself problematic, and it is good that we have found the proposed form of an amendment, some proportionality between the two basic objectives that we are pursuing; this is said to increase the non-profit housing fund and also allow those with lower incomes to have equal and, if you wish, even more equitable access to non-profit housing, and thus to give a greater social approach to this provision or to the law. This seems particularly important to me, and I would particularly like to point out that this amendment prevents spatial social dispersion that could occur in some environments. It is the case that the municipality, the State, the public housing fund or non-profit organisations in each call for non-profit housing may sign off on the payment of their own participation and the payment of the security as an advantage in obtaining housing for only the maximum half of the dwellings in the tender. For we must not allow the power in a given area to be created by social status by means of the condition of participation or the payment of a security to prevent access to non-profit dwellings to categories of individuals with lower personal income and neighbourhoods from forming according to social status, meaning some ghettoisation, or even making it difficult for these categories to stay in a particular area. I am therefore pleased to note that in the coalition's parliamentary groups, we have also drafted an amendment in cooperation with the government, as it is in this form.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u72	Thank you very much. We also support these amendments in the United Nations Group. In discussions with the ministry, we first asked whether it was wise to have only non-profit but not, as before, social housing in the marriage. We were told the concept was that this is a good way to set things right because it makes relationships easier. It was therefore important for us to ensure that, under the conditions for allocating these apartments, which are now all non-profit, we have clearly defined social criteria, and this will already be prescribed by the Ministry's regulation. Where these social criteria will have to be met, own participation will not be possible at all. Secondly, we made it clear that this is an option in the invitation to tender by the congregation, not a necessity. And thirdly, we have set a limit on the extent to which it is possible to prescribe at all. And it was originally written in two-thirds, now we have reduced this to half, because we believe that, given the objective situation in local communities, this is the relationship where it can be said that half - to simplify - of former social housing, where it is not possible to prescribe a censorship of own participation or security, and half of the non-profits, where it can be human and similar, where it is probably wise to provide for a larger housing fund and provide for the possibility of own participation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate on Article 91 and the amendment. I am opening the debate on Article 92 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u74	Thank you very much. First, which I would like to discuss in Article 92, is a warning from tenants in denationalised apartments that the acceptance of Article 92 would potentially exacerbate the rental relationship for them. To fear any possible deterioration, I understand them very much. Because she has repeatedly questioned the possibility of exercising their rights given them by law in practice, and so far we have not been successful enough to safeguard their rights. However, I hope that this fear is not justified in this case. In 192.a., it is expressly laid down that the second and third paragraphs of Article 92 do not apply to already concluded leases. So where rental relationships are concluded - and this also applies to tenants in denationalised apartments before this law comes into effect - it is not possible every two years or every five years after our amendment to redefine whether the social criteria for non-profit housing are met or not, or whether an apartment should already be allocated to someone under market conditions, because in this case it might be possible that after five years all dwellings, where there are no criteria so far, because there is no criterion here for something else, the fact that it is a housing that has been restored by denationalisation and that it is also necessary to maintain here a protected housing right so that this criterion is not established. So I believe that in this case this fear should not be and that this right is protected. I hope that nothing like what happened at the level of the rents will happen by a decision of the Constitutional Court. If so, then I would say in advance that we will propose a change and supplementation of the law, which will clearly state that, of course, it is not possible to re-establish some of the new criteria for protected housing rights that tenants in denationalised apartments have acquired. Otherwise, we have worked together to increase this deadline by two years to five, which I think is useful, because every two years it would not be useful to find out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. Runch, for your warning. I think it is important to stress again, although I have already done this in the introduction, that this article, in our understanding, applies exclusively to new non-profit housing contracts and that in short, to all existing contracts without exception - both those dwellings that have been denationalised and all other non-profit dwellings - are subject to existing legal relations and to the current provisions on time immeasurability. I am so sure that, after all, according to our legal order, which says that you cannot take some right back, there will be no problem with understanding this provision in the way that was actually presented by Mr Ptræ; if this is to be interpreted immediately. I agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and turn to the debate on Article 95 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 101 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I would particularly like to ask colleagues and colleagues, as well as the government, which supports this, to also support the amendment to Article 101, because it seems to me that the issue of entering the apartment and the question of doing certain jobs in the apartment is an important issue for, I would say, the peaceful enjoyment of the rental apartment. If the provisions of the law are not sufficiently clear here, there may also be abuse on the part of the owner. And some rental relationships can be sensitive. The owner, however, would like to exercise the right of cancellation, the tenant respects the terms of the lease and does not allow it, and then with some other methods, the renting of the apartment is difficult or impossible. Therefore, it seems good to me that we have here, as far as possible, precisely defined the conditions in which the entry and repair in the apartment may be against the will of the tenant so that these abuses would not be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u79	Thank you very much. No one wants to discuss it anymore, so I am concluding and putting Article 105 and the amendment to the debate. The four amendments are tabled in this Article. I am therefore opening the debate on Article 105 and on the four amendments. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I would particularly like to support the amendment tabled jointly by the four groups of Members. I believe that the text, as was written and amended on the Committee, is written by chance. But if it were written so accidentally, it would have very, very profound consequences. For what was written: "...if, at any time since the entry into force of this law, the tenant of a non-profit apartment or his spouse or the person with whom he lives for a long time an extra-marital community owns a suitable apartment or apartment building, the owner may cancel the lease." That is to say, even after ten years it would have been found that the day after the adoption of this law I had an apartment or my spouse or anyone else could have cancelled my lease for that reason after ten years. I believe, once again, it was not meant to be, but if it were written like this, someone could continue to do so, but we know that this is connected not only to an apartment that is already intended for housing, but also to a holiday apartment and could result in major abuses. That is why I think that this amendment is logical, necessary, and there was no objection to it, but it is still very important, because otherwise it could have led to a misunderstanding of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Only an explanation of the need to take into account in the review this amendment under order number 3 to 105, that this is a new fifth paragraph, not an amendment to paragraph 5 of Article 105. I conclude the debate on this Article and the amendments. I am putting to the debate Article 105a and the three amendments to this Article. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate. I am opening the debate on Article 105b and the amendment to this Article. I conclude the debate. And I am putting to the debate 106th Article and the amendment to this Article. Since no one wants to discuss it, I'm concluding it. I am putting to the debate Article 109 and the amendment to this Article. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 112 and the amendment to this Article. There's no desire to discuss it. Therefore, I am putting to the debate Article 118 and the amendment to this Article. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u82	Thank you very much. According to the founders of this law, the greatest progress in the rental segment is precisely the case, and in all their speeches, the landlord said that they had just paid the highest attention to the law because of the rent. The current or old system of calculating rents was very complicated, so that not everyone could understand it or - according to some experts - only real experts could calculate the rent without mistakes. Rents are uniform in the new marriage, but now they vary according to when the apartment was rented. That is to say whether it was rented before or after 1991. Rents are also different for apartments rented after March 2000. Also within these categories, rents vary and vary for apartments over 60 years of age, rents are paid differently by renters of denationalisation apartments and other rents by socially disadvantaged residents. This formulation achieves the objective of uniting rents by paying a single non-profit rent for all. Those who will not be able to pay for it will be entitled to a subsidy that is much more just, according to the legislator. The number will also be changed. Following new prices, those eligible for subsidised rent will be much less, around 11 to 12,000. Now there were 24,000 and they will have to pay at least 20% of the non-profit rent. Of course, I wonder what this justice is. According to the calculations, municipalities will have to pay for the subsidy of rents of 2.7 billion tolars. For some, the Constitutional Court's decision, which provides for a substantial lease jump between the previous and the new laws, has been halved. On average, rents are expected to rise by 37%. The jump is much smaller, and some will even reduce the rent. I have to be precise and say that the Constitutional Court decision did not raise the rent. She only raised the limit of the maximum permitted rent. Of course, it remains very questionable whether and how, when the law is passed, it will require a series of sub-laws, a new methodology, a regulation on the allocation of non-profit dwellings, which, of course, will be adopted by the Minister, conditions and criteria for the allocation of non-profit housing, a methodology for calculating non-profit rent, at least the Minister will give it. Of course, I ask myself - despite our express request and the request of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats to have, at least before the third reading, draft sub-legislative acts - whether these methodologies will also change the effect of rent formation, because in fact the methodology itself can distort the creation of rents in many ways. Of course, it may seem unjustifiable to you, but civil society representatives have requested that the Customs Declaration and the Habitat Agenda, which bind the signatory country - we are also one of the signatories - to develop effective consultative mechanisms, to support the broad participation of non-governmental organisations, users, local communities, consultative and supervisory mechanisms. Unfortunately, this law does not give rise to the right degree nor to the mechanisms for adopting and evaluating the effects of housing policy at all or in terms of the exercise of fundamental human rights. [[read: rights of tenants]] , groups of users who do not have the opportunity to exercise their constitutional rights in accordance with Article 22 of the Constitution, skaters shall be guaranteed equal protection of rights against the State authority. For those who will have a markedly changed situation after the adoption of this law, I fear that the Minister will have to provide for additional measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. We're preparing submarital acts. The one you're talking about, I think the grave draft will be ready in about two weeks, so you don't have a problem forwarding it, if you want, before the third hearing. However, I must say that the system of accounting for non-profit rents, as proposed by this Act, does not come into force until 1.1.2005, so it is a year and a half, or even more, for the proper preparation of all of this, although, as we say, we will prepare it as soon as possible. However, it must be borne in mind that all sub-laws also go through inter-departmental coordination within the government, with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Welfare, for example, because, under the provisions of the Social Protection Act, part of the social policy of the Social Protection Act has now moved into the housing law. We weren't very pleased with that, but that's how it is. We had to coordinate this with them, and we will have to coordinate all of them with all of them. I think that this fear of substantially changing circumstances for individuals is unfounded. There will be some changes, of course, but these changes are evident from the law itself. The methodology for calculating non-profit rents will be very simple, much simpler than before when there were so many different types of non-profit rentals. The only stranger who will always be unknown is the so-called influence of a location that is in the hands of the congregation and can change over the years starting with 1.1.2005. I'd like to calm these fears. I don't think that bylaws can take things into a different concept, given the law's provisions, than it's set up here. However, these submarital acts will certainly be a matter of further negotiation. That's why I think every concern is superfluous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u86	Certainly the height of rent is one of the questions where there is a clear conflict of different interests and it is very difficult to say what is more right, what is less. From the point of view of the owners, it would be normal for at least the non-profit rent to provide the necessary costs for regular maintenance and renovation of the apartment, as well as something for the recovery of the capital invested in the apartment in order to build new apartments from this. From the point of view of the tenant, it's a burden to pay. For a number of tenants, the estimated rent is not proportional, I must say, given the level of wages, it is already very high for many. It is also very high given that it also has to pay other maintenance costs and the situation is not very easy. I am sure that the government will have to lead a one-sided policy in which these relations will be steered wisely while at the same time correcting, as has been said, social adjustments. In our discussions with the government, we have received a message that progress in this law is precisely in that rents will increase and the boto will give a few more opportunities for wider housing construction, which is basically positive because our question or our criticism that this law governs a certain relationship and in fact the developmental housing policy does not provide enough. However, correction through social criteria will, of course, be possible in this case. But since I'm talking about it, I should be allowed to give my opinion. The Constitutional Court decision has its own legal logic. And for me, it comes from a starting point that I wouldn't accept. The Constitutional Court has assumed that there is no reason to distinguish between different tenants, given that the amount of rent for all is equal and non-profitable to renters is not a social category. And in principle, that's true. The social category is then the corrective ones given. Why do I think this starting point is wrong? Because, from the very beginning of the adoption of the law in 1991, the future property rights of someone who had been deprived of their cooperation were more powerful than the established housing rights enjoyed by the holders in these denationalised apartments. I think this is the wrong decision. Whether this wrong decision, as I assess it, will ever be confirmed later or not, we will see. We know, however, that some of the decisions of the European Court have gone in this direction, which does not necessarily require ownership to be overcompensated or property to be given priority, especially if any future property right is a higher-a-vis rental of an apartment, especially if it is a long-term lease, as in this case the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which I know, even compared to Slovenia, was not a long-term lease, but essentially a permanent lease under any conditions. For these categories, it is necessary to say that the formal decision of the Constitutional Court has not increased but has actually increased because it has allowed for an additional increase for everyone who had this interest. It will be difficult for a private owner to say that he does not take advantage of these rights if he is given a constitutional decision. For a large part of the tenants this will actually mean, or the arms mean a substantial overnight increase in the rent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u88	Maybe just for a little while about it. This is the estimated amount of non-profit rent of 4,68% of the value of dwellings per year. That we've reached this number is also the result of some kind of arbitration, which is professionally based or justified. Let me say that we ordered a study at the Faculty of Economics in Ljubljana, which is supposed to give us a result of what a non-profit rent is. Their proposal was 5.63% of the value of the apartment per year. That was their suggestion. Imagine what the reaction would be if you put 5.63% in the bill. That would be quite a jump in the light of the current situation. Therefore, taking into account the things that we considered that they were not sufficiently defined or evaluated in the study, taking into account the actual situation, taking into account some movements and the ability of the population to adopt this number, we considered that 4.68% of the most correct measure, which on the one hand is trying to balance the needs of the owners after they come to the minimum means of maintenance and perhaps even something for the construction of non-profit dwellings, which is certainly our priority, and, on the other hand, it will not be too much of a burden for those living in non-profit dwellings and who are not entitled to subsidisation because of their income situation. In short, I want to say that we in the house alone have long weighed what is the right measure and that we have reached this number. But I just wanted to illustrate to you what the proposal would be if we didn't take into account anything but some economic calculation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I'd just like to ask the minister on what basis and how did you actually get this simulated value of 4.48 compared to what you were advised by 5.63? Did you make any grades, scale simulations and so on? I think that's the perfect sum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u92	I think that here - now I speak from memory, because I do not have a study ahead of me - the individual elements have evaluated significantly more than we have evaluated on the proposal for a law. I think that - I speak from memory - the most appreciated or the largest deviation from our number is in assessing the element of funding costs. They've been evaluated by many more than we've estimated. I think there is also an important difference in management costs, something small in depreciation, in short, between 4.68 and 5.63.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u93	Thank you very much. May I close the debate on Article 118 and the amendment? [[Yeah.]] I am opening the debate on Article 118a and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 119 and the amendment to this Article. I conclude the debate. I am opening the debate on Article 120 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u94	The amendment to the 120th Article of the SDS Group discusses the provision of subsidies in market apartments as well. Support for such an amendment would have very large financial implications. In fact, they do not have resources for such subsidisation, nor do they have a congregation or, above all, a congregation. I also believe that such a measure, which is preserved in the law itself, in order to determine in the municipal housing programme the possibility of subsidising also rents in a market apartment, opens up a lot of niche and also the pressure we will have to take in the municipalities. However, there is a security guard where we are likely to try to assess the real capabilities and, above all, the needs. Indeed, the needs are still extremely large, especially in the construction of apartments. If we were to subsidise rents in market apartments, then there is certainly a lack of funds for the construction of both non-profit and housing units, which are intended for temporary housing purposes, but for those who are in very severe difficulty, just as this law somehow foresees. At the same time, I would also point out that the national housing programme, however, also speaks about the direction of migration in a way that takes account of coherent regional development. And, of course. Farer than theft, the income of the inhabitants is usually reduced and the need for subsidies is increased and the fund for new construction is reduced. In this way, the solutions envisaged by this law and the aid technology for the regional development programme should take into account, in particular, this factor, in order to follow more coherent regional development and to ensure that those places where they have lower incomes or where they receive lower incomes and the need for social housing or non-profit dwellings are large, but also listen to the assistance they provide primarily for the construction of these dwellings. These criteria must indeed be such that, in a larger percentage, they will be able to co-finance either the housing fund, this year also from the state budget, from the regional development programmes, a higher percentage of the individual investment than in some urban area where the income situation is, of course, significantly better. Thus, the intervention in the amount of funds the municipalities have to subsidise in a way that would subsidise tenants in market apartments is in fact unacceptable and I do not support the amendment of the Social Democratic Party which proposes this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Can I close the debate? I conclude the debate and put into discussion Article 121 and the amendment to this Article. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I explicitly support this article, because I think it will help to ensure that the newly built house comes to life in a timely and correct manner, because I think that the greatest achievement or the greatest achievement of this housing law is just a chapter on the management and definition of all the obligations arising from management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 121 and open the debate on Article 135 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[Not]] . I conclude the debate and give the debate in 136th Article and the amendment to this Article. I am concluding and putting to the debate Article 137 and the amendment to this Article. I conclude the debate and put Article 138 to the debate with the amendment. I am closing the debate and putting to the debate Article 140 and the two amendments to this Article. I conclude the debate and put Article 145 and the two amendments to this Article into discussion. I'm closing the debate. I am opening the debate on Article 146 and the amendment to this Article. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 154 and the amendment to this Article. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 165 and the amendment to this Article. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 166 and the amendment to this Article. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 167 and the amendment to this Article. I conclude the debate. I am opening the debate on Article 168 and the amendment to this Article. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 169 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[Not]] . I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 170 and the two amendments to this Article. First Mr. Potts, then Mr. Weber. Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you that Article 170 is linked to the existing Article 125 of the Act, which was always an important debate at the time of adoption and in subsequent amendments and additions. I would like to say that I must say because of my conscience, as well as because of the magnetogram and the public, that we also had important discussions in the coalition on the possible content of Article 170, which suggests that the issue of privatisation of housing holders in former denationalised apartments or in existing denationalised apartments is not adequately regulated. There was no one who could not accept that fact, that I wouldn't say anything bad about anyone. The debate was more about whether, 10, 12 years ago, under the real budget options, this could be fully settled or not. Some of us felt that it would give more emphasis to solving these issues, since otherwise they would be able to turn in a more difficult form in a few years. Within the government, the view was that there was no financial opportunity for this and that was the reason that it prevailed and prevailed. In spite of this fact, we have decided in our Group to support the law, because we felt that there were so many necessary changes and additions on other elements that the damage would only be for this reason of the law not being adopted. However, we firmly believe that in this part of the wrong done, we do not correct it. That this injustice exists, that this country has done, not to a small group of people, that it has also been identified by the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights, who was here a while ago, that things can be internationalised, that some elements that show the possibility of meeting the requirement exist and that we can happen, that a few years later the requirement that these injustices be rectified, that we will not then be surprised that we have been unaware of them for 10 years or so. Finally, I would just like to say that, together in the coalition, we have tried, but if we cannot be, I would say, fairer to tenants in denationalised apartments, to be fairer at least to the burdens accepted by the state and the municipalities due to denationalisation, and that we have made the commitment that the congregations have so far had as new owners or denationalisation debtors to the state or its compensation fund. Indeed, it is not possible to say that the congregations would be worthy of anything or to blame for the solutions we adopted 12 years ago in the household law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Even under this law, municipalities retain one of the most difficult or even the most responsible tasks in solving housing problems, as they are supposed to provide non-profit housing and group housing facilities designed to temporarily address the housing needs of socially disadvantaged persons. It's the most sensitive questions. If the municipality remained committed to denationalisation, the quality of the resources available to it primarily from the purchase of apartments would continue to be allocated to solve this problem, which is not really in the original jurisdiction of the municipalities. At the same time, however, it must be added that 20% of the housing purchases to the Republic of Slovenia and 10% to the Slovenian compensation fund. During this time, it was also provided from these purchases a very nice fund for solving problems in the way that the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia allows. The Slovenian Indemnity Fund can also resolve a certain obligation precisely because municipalities are depriving these funds from purchases. Therefore, I think that the obligations of the congregations so far have been truly too great and that we are going to face these most challenging social situations. I think that at least one step closer to really getting the congregations to carry out that task, which is also enshrined in the law, in the most appropriate and effective way - that is by providing, in particular, new housing units or new non-profit apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u102	Thank you very much. It is true, I would like to confirm - we have had very difficult coordination with regard to this article. Believe me, I would be most happy if I could finally resolve this problem that I inherited from the time I passed the law on denationalisation. I'm not going to say I'd go straight to history, but we wouldn't drag this problem forward because it actually burdens us. Not only is every time a minister, not just me, gets the quantification, sometimes lies by those who are the most attractive way to deal with this issue, but it also burdens our political debate at all. Nevertheless, I must say that this article is a major step forward in the light of the existing law. This significant progress is not insignificant; it represents an additional financial commitment for the Republic of Slovenia, 4 billion and a half over the next five to seven years. These aren't small amounts. I know that they will not solve this problem definitively, but there is no way to say that this provision is not a step forward in the light of the arrangements that have been made so far. It is therefore very difficult to understand the opposition to the adoption of this law at all, because then it would remain under an existing provision that is also significantly less favourable for those interested in it. I believe that this is a step forward, which represents a great obligation for the country, as we have hoped to write in the law. Some of the wishes, however, are that this obligation would be extremely, extremely large, even ten times as we have now written here. This is not the burden we hope to place on the shoulders of our taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Can I close the debate? [[Yeah.]] I am putting to the debate article 192.a and the amendment to this article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude and open the debate on the last Article 193 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Here too, a warning has been given in a letter from the Association of tenants in denationalised apartments that the proposed amendment would constitute an intervention in existing rights. I would like to say that, with regard to the determination of rent, non-profit, the whole law really constitutes an intervention in existing rights, because new criteria will give rise to this determination. In all other things, I believe that the government will also confirm that an intervention into existing rights does not mean that. For all tenants in denationalised apartments, the only and possible condition of renting is non-profit rent, regardless of social criteria, and this is not changed in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u106	I confirm that this is the case, i.e. a non-profit lease for an indefinite period of time. I would just like to point out that the additional provision laid down in Article 193(2) and (3) here also means the resolution of existing pressures for some tenants in denationalised apartments. This is therefore an additional argument for the adoption of this Article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. More notice. We will vote on the amendments today at 6.20 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. The assembly will begin its consideration of item 3 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations at 3.35 p.m. Until then, I am adjourning the meeting and thank the representatives and representatives of the Government for their cooperation very much. So we continue at 3:35 p.m. Mr. Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u108	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would just like to call on Members to convene a meeting of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee for the purpose of addressing the agenda item on the agenda of this meeting for 14 hours, which is why I call on everyone to attend.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u109	Mr. Janc, they're asking colleagues and colleagues in which room.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u110	Room 212.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u111	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u112	Dear Members and Members, distinguished Madam Secretary of State, a nice greeting! We're moving to 3. POINT OF THE DAY - ANOTHER PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON LEGISLATIVE RELATIONSHIP AND ASSOCIATION. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed magi. Janez Petty Officer. With regard to this law, the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considers that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposers of the draft law for further explanation of the bill. Mag. Squirrel, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u113	Dear colleagues and others present, representatives of the government, welcome! Allow me to provide an introductory explanation for the law submitted. The current practice shows that children and parents are often victims of the longevity and inefficiencies of procedures resulting from the uncoordinated operation between individual national authorities and weak legal arrangements for dealing with these complex issues. Parents and children usually wait more than a year to resolve complaints. The number of marriages is increasing from year to year; out of the thousands of marriages concluded in 1997 there were 266 divorces and in 2000 there were 298. The reasons for such a high number of divorces are different, from a lack of in-depth preparation for a common life in marriage and parenthood, which is the life and important profession of each individual who chooses to do so to other reasons, such as a different view, a more liberal view of life in two. The current nature of the problems arising from such a large number of divorces requires early regulation. One of the most painful problems is the problem of regulating relationships between parents and children after divorce. Solutions need to be adopted to ensure the effective protection of children's benefits and the most constructive relations between ex-wives. The Constitutional Court has repealed the provisions that we are amending by means of the last decision or has demanded that the State assembly adopt constitutionally indisputable solutions within the time limit adopted. The proposal for that law, which we are submitting, has hit very well the key provisions of the existing law, which is constitutionally disputed and which has been pronounced by the Constitutional Court, which shows that we have dealt with the problem in an expert way. Targets and main solutions. The law is based on the child's maximum benefit standard, which is a key rule of the international regulation of communication between parents. The benefits of the child must be taken into account in all the relationships and situations in which he is involved or affected, including when deciding on personal contact between the child and the parent. This is also the case with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. Key legal solutions, the transfer of jurisdiction to the court of personal contact with social work centres. In accordance with this principle, the Court should decide on the right of the child to personal contact and also on his withdrawal where the child’s benefit so requires. Both decisions on education and contacts are necessarily linked and the Centre for Social Work is requested to deliver an opinion. Personal contacts shall be decided in due process and no longer in administrative proceedings. Instead of social work centres that decide or decide in administrative proceedings, personal contacts are the subject of a judgment issued by a court in a fair trial. The definition of the minimum level of regular persons, the concept of regular contact in Slovenian family law is not defined, and the law recommends the scope of personal contact between a child and one of the parents to whom the child is not entrusted. Although the defined duration of contacts is a minimum, the court of lower limits may not take into account if the child’s benefits are at risk. The possibility of foreclosure is a potential pressure on all those parents who prevent or prevent their children from contacting another parent. This also puts some pressure on those parents who have been given the child to be responsible for regulating contacts and for providing contact with other parents. Promoting personal contact not only does the law allow and regulate these contacts, but it requires that one of the parents who has a child to act by encouraging the child to contact his or her other parent. Parents who live separately or are divorced or have been dissolved have both the right to exercise parental rights. Just to finish my sentence, if you don't mind, Madam President. The child’s benefits are their primary concern, so an arrangement that excludes one of the parents from caring for the common child should be deleted. In this way, the standard of responsible parenting is established, and closer family members should also be drawn into the circle. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I give the floor to a representative of the government. Ms Alenka Kovšca, State Secretary, Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u115	Thank you very much for your words, a very nice greeting to the president and Members of Parliament. With all due respect for that proposal, which, of course, only partially addresses some of the issues that need to be addressed, I would like to present the problems that this proposal poses with regard to the amendment of the law on marriage. The proposal for a law is not fully in line with the constitutional decision, namely that the Constitutional Court has decided that the first paragraph of Article 105 and the first and second paragraphs of Article 114 of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations in Non-Conformity with the Constitution and that the first paragraph of Article 106 and the fourth paragraphs of Article 114 shall be repealed, nor shall it comply with the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and the European Convention on the Contact of the Child. The essential shortcomings are shown by the fact that the Institute of Contact does not regulate the integrated framework of existing legislation and does not provide for a solution in other situations, not only when the marriage is divorced but does not provide for procedural additions and amendments to the Law on Justice and the Law on Courts, which, in view of the transfer of competences, are essential and constitute a prerequisite for judicial decision-making. With regard to the implementation of the law, we believe that the assessment of the financial consequences of the law is inadequate, since it does not provide for an additional scope of the work of the courts and costs which will certainly result from the judicial decision. The draft law is not in line with the decision of the Constitutional Court in the case in which the Court decided that Article 105, paragraph 1, is inconsistent with the Constitution. The first paragraph says, "If parents don't live together, they have to agree which one of them will the child live with." If the first paragraph of paragraph 105 were to remain in force, the requirement of the Constitutional Court is thus denied so that the Court may also decide on joint education and protection. For those reasons, the Constitutional Court found that it is inconsistent with the Constitution because the existing law does not regulate the issue of child rearing and child protection. In the field of contact decision-making, the law provides that when a court divorces a marriage pursuant to Article 65 of the Law, it shall decide on the protection, upbringing, regular personal contact and survival of children. That amendment provides that parents must agree on regular contacts only if one of the spouses lodges an action against a marriage. It is not clear from the proposal that parents must also agree in contact in the event of a divorce, and in all other cases where their parents do not live or will no longer live together, this would result in an unacceptable legal void. Nor does the proposal for amendments lay down certain requirements of the Convention on Child Relations, such as the question of establishing a minimum range of contacts. When deciding on contacts, we cannot adopt a general principle on the scope of contacts, as this is contrary to the basic principle of the Convention on Contacts, that contacts are primarily the right of the child and that the child's benefit is first identified in the proceedings. In addition, there are circumstances where it is impossible to carry out contacts in a proposed way because of the age of a child, such as a baby, or a greater distance in another country. The CSD practice also shows that contacts in cases of disagreement between parents and where relationships are extremely problematic, are determined to a lesser extent or are introduced gradually for the benefit of the child. In some cases, the belts shall, for various reasons, be carried out under the supervision of the expert, which is not provided for in that proposal. That provision is inconsistent with Article 10 of the European Convention on Contacts. Nor does the proposal to amend the law define the advisory role of the Centre for Social Work before the parents turn to the court, in order to encourage the communication and negotiation of parents, which has proved successful so far and has a direct impact on the reduction of the workload of the courts. The proposal also does not provide for the possibility that contacts can be made in a different way, not only with a personal meeting or association. It also does not provide for the possibility of contact with other persons and does not foresee and take into account the opinion of the child, which is essential to us and which is the assumptions of the European Convention on the Rights of the Child. The bill provides that the child is entitled to regular contact with the parent with whom he does not live together. The provision automatically assumes that contacts are for the child’s benefit or does not allow for contacts to conflict with the child’s benefits. This is how Article 9 of the Convention provides. The fourth paragraph of Article 1 of the proposal also provides for the possibility of redistribution of a child. We caution that the existing law does not know the institution of child allocation or pre-delegation. The child is not property. In this case, the child’s benefit is subordinate to the rights of the parents, since the court is obliged to judge primarily on the basis of the determination of the child’s benefit and its opinion, if it has expressed it itself or by another person who has chosen it and entrusted it with it, as laid down in the European Convention. The Constitutional Court also repealed paragraph 4 of Article 114. Mr Drobnic's proposal does not include a decision of the Constitutional Court in this part. It even proposes that the fourth paragraph of Article 114 remain or becomes a new second paragraph, which would be contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court. For those reasons, in particular because of the lack of consistency with the Constitutional Court decision and the non-compliance with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights and Contacts of the Child, as well as the reasons for non-constant regulation of the area contained in the proposal, and because the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has already prepared a comprehensive proposal for amendments and for supplementing the law governing the protection, education, maintenance of parental contacts with children, the Government does not support amendments and the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, it therefore proposes that the State Assembly does not adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first was Master Janez Petty Officer, who is no longer among us. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u117	Respectable present. I believe or hope that everyone in this national assembly should have the same goal, that is to ensure maximum justice and to ensure a smooth youthful period. Unfortunately, however, we have different views among the parliamentary groups, at least as regards the link between the National Party and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The basic law on marriage and family relations dates back to 1976. It has been amended several times, so the government has repeatedly touched it and has had the opportunity to intervene in the form of imposing constitutional provisions or in the form of modernisation of society. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not do so. Today, too, the same argument is used, that the law is just ahead of the laborers and that it will immediately arrive in this national assembly with a novel. However, such areas as the criminal code or other promises of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have never been fulfilled. Whenever we speak from the field of the competent ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, this National Assembly, in the slogans, "sit down" to the promise that the government will submit a substantive law, or the law in question, for consideration, and that this will be one of the most wonderful laws. But the fact is, and I just told you that there have been many novelties of this law and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not joined such changes. This means that we no longer believe in this promise of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the national party. On the other hand, it is necessary to say that this law in our eyes represents five novelties or novelties that will have a qualitative impact on the child’s life in our society. First time. The benefit of the child is mainly the right of children in the proposed Article 106 amendment to the right of personal contact. So with the novel, we give children the right. In today's society, we think it's very important. We further assess that the proposal would make it easier, shorter and, above all, more procedurally easier to deal with issues relating to personal contacts. We further assess that this law would also introduce the protection of children's rights and the impact of judicial control into a system that would work to satisfy the interests of children, i.e. people, in their youngest periods. We further assess that the positive issue of the law would also be the transfer of competence to the courts to decide on personal contacts with the social work centre. We estimate that social work centres have multiplied in recent years but do not fulfil their essential tasks. And unfortunately, they are becoming increasingly self-centered and not those for which these centers were established. Finally, we estimate that the adoption of this law would accelerate the exercise of parental rights. Given the time frame, it is necessary to say that we estimate that the proposed law is being closely monitored or followed by a decision of the Constitutional Court, which has also set a deadline for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a period of one year which the government has already missed. We estimate that in all three directions the Constitutional Court decision is only fulfilled by this law, i.e. for the first time, the transfer of the decision from the Centre for Social Work to the courts. Another time. Personal contacts shall be decided in fair and no longer in unfair proceedings. Third time. Determination of the minimum level of regularity. We estimate that the law would take a step further. However, in the parliamentary procedure, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can still give its own law, which it claims is better. And if he gets better, it'll make sense to support him. However, we cannot agree with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's argument, which essentially stated two arguments, why the law is not so good as to be worthy of adoption. For the first time, it's only part of the area. In the national party, there is also a sufficient argument for us to support the law in part when it comes to children's rights, and not an argument that we do not support the law. There is the power of the legislator within us, and it means that if at least part of us solves, we will take a step forward. Do not be fooled by the fact that one day we will meet a roofing law or a law that will cover the entire subject matter roofed and entirely. The fact is, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia could have already done so, but it has not done so. We are also assessing the harmonisation of the proposed law, i.e. amendments and additions to the law on marriage and family relations, with European legislation or conventions, we also find this argument irrelevant. To talk about the consistency of an individual act and to give consistency before the weight of the content, we find it humiliating to children. And second, what we want to say is the last argument is the financial consequences. If the government responds to the financial consequences of this law as an argument for non-compliance, I will say again, this is shameful for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the area of the protection of children, parental rights and of the matter covered by the law, the government should by no means behave and look exclusively through financial material or financial aspects of reception and non-admission. We will support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members is to be presented by Mr Tsukati, who is not. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Silva Montenegro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues. Today we are considering a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on marriage and family relations of the first-signed Magi Applicant. Janez Petty Officer. In the Group of Members of the United Social Democrats, we have closely and closely monitored all the publications and the ongoing public debate recently conducted by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons on this issue, on how to fully address the extremely sensitive and difficult issue of education, protection, survival and children's contacts. We have also been reminded of such a greater concern by the Ombudsman's report, which also places its special care and attention on these issues. In particular, we took note of the proposed law when we received at the same time a decision by the Constitutional Court in the constitutional procedure, initiated by Majda Drej and others, decided that the first paragraph of Article 105 and Article 114 of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations were not in accordance with the Constitution to a certain extent and had also repealed the deferred effect. Regrettably, the proposed law does not take into account this decision, nor does it take into account Article 12 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and certain articles of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Article 14 of the Covenant, which provides for the duty of States to ensure, by appropriate measures, the equality of spouses between marriage and divorce and the duty of the State to take care of certain measures necessary for the protection and protection of children. Therefore, in the UK Group, we find the proposal unacceptable, and we also consider it incomplete in terms of the treatment of all children, as it is given only to address the issue of divorce contacts and unfortunately does not cover children born in an extra-marital community and children who are illegitimate. The proposed law understates or underemphasizes the need for advisory work in court decisions. In particular, the Community of Centres for Social Work requires that it should be clearly stated that the advisory process at the Centre for Social Work, which produces an expert opinion, is being carried out before a court decision. The proposed law, however, leaves the centre to decide only if the parents cannot agree. The proposal stems mainly from the rights of parents who do not live with a child, which is unacceptable in cases of decision-making on children's benefits in the opinion of the United Social Democrats Group, as it is not in accordance with the proposed European Convention on the Rights of the Child. Therefore, in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, we estimate that despite some progress, the proposed law does not offer a comprehensive solution to the problem and is also unconsistent to cities. Unfortunately, the law does not provide for the process of respecting the child's opinion, which is also a procedural right under the Convention on the Rights of the Child and other procedural rights are not respected, such as by the child's confidant and so on. Nor are parental rights fully respected or so defined and defined that they are very difficult or impossible to exercise. Therefore, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we have decided not to support the law and we will adopt the proposal of the Labour Authority that the law is not a suitable basis for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ivan Kebrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u121	Thank you for saying so, Madam President, colleagues and colleagues. We have examined the proposal carefully in the Member State and, on the other hand, we are aware that it is essential to protect the rights of children as widely as possible. Of course, there are differences between children whether a child is still a child or a very young one, and others who already know how to judge and decide for themselves must be protected by law. We believe that it is most tragic that in each marriage the victim of a child who is supposed to have parental mutual support to bring him into life provides him with a particular material and, above all, moral support. Therefore, it is essential that we also include in this law children who should be protected not only within the framework of marriage but also in the extra-marital community, but also, as we know, are born many illegitimate children who have the same rights as the law must protect and add. In the Group of Members, we believe that the proposal before us does not govern the whole of this area. We are aware that the Government is about to submit a comprehensive law in due course, especially in order to take account of all the judgments and decisions of the Constitutional Court. In the DeSUS Group, we therefore support the decision of the Committee on Health, Labour, Family and Social Policy and Disabled Persons that such a proposal as is before us is not suitable for further consideration. In our view, this proposal for a law is inconsistent, flawed and inaccurate and does not take account of all the views and judgments of the Constitutional Court. However, we would also like to point out that we are aware that the Government is preparing and we are confident that this proposal will be consistent, that it will take account of everything and that we will have sufficient opportunity on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Policy to possibly add to the Government's proposal for what will happen in the debate. In its proposal, the law-maker resolves the relationship between the Court and the Centre for Social Work. Those who prefer to watch certain TV shows from abroad, we know that the primary competence of the courts is to judge when parents cannot agree on certain things, not only material things, but also that the child will be given the opportunity to benefit from another parent if the child is given to the opposite partner. We believe that the courts will take into account the opinions, recommendations and all that the social work centres will find out, because they are the first ones on the ground who are not only interested, but also morally and materially responsible for how the child will be taken care of. Therefore, we will not support this proposal in our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Stana Stopar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. I'm having a nice afternoon to all of you! Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on marriage and family relations of Mr Mag. Janez Drobnič and co-signers in the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will not be supported. Although the proposal does not conflict with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs' efforts to address open issues concerning children's contact with parents, we note that the proposal has certain shortcomings. It regulates only part of the issues relating to the area of the regulation of children's contact with parents and is not in line with the efforts to regulate this matter in the manner governed by the European Convention on the Exercise of the Rights of the Child. The proposal is incomplete when it comes to identifying the child’s benefits, as the procedures have not been fully implemented and there may be ambiguity in the determination of the child’s benefit. Nor does the proposal cover some other issues that need to be addressed in this regard, such as issues of joint education and protection, opinions of social work centres, procedures, rights of contact with other persons, the exercise of parental rights and survival. The provision of a law on minimum contact between a child and a parent is inappropriate. In doing so, we must point out that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has already drawn up a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the law on marriage and family relations, which deals more comprehensively and better with this difficult issue, so we will not support the proposal of mags. Janez Drobnič and the co-signers, and we agree with the proposal for the decision of the home labour body to reject the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Also the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u125	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I say hello to everyone who's here! In our parliamentary group, we welcome and respect the intention of the applicants to reach out to the branch of the institution of contacts between divorced parents and children with a novelty which is currently under consideration because it has simply shown in practice in the content of parental infirmities that they come into contact with children. And many parents who were powerless addressed letters and appeals to the National Assembly and, of course, some also addressed the Constitutional Court with an initiative to judge certain articles in this capacity. It is therefore good that, in this case, the amendment of the basic law on marriage and family relations has begun to seriously approach the amendment in the context of the present law that we are considering. In the law, the proposer intervened in a particular area, at least in two cases, quite inconsistent with regard to the conceptuality of the law, which he also pointed out to the secretariat or the legal and legislative service. It is true, however, that this proposal for a law could, after all, be upgraded in this sense. Even after this law had been introduced into the procedure, the Constitutional Court has already ruled in another and has also reached an end to the 105th Article of the Basic Law, which it does not resolve or prejudice at all. In any event, it is necessary to open the contents of Article 105 and Article 105 as such for the amendment of the law. In view of the procedure, we can no longer do so with this bill, so it is only reasonable to leave the way for a more comprehensive, somehow more appropriate proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on marriage and family relations, as drafted by the government. We in the parliamentary group are familiar with the text and the content and only ask the government to establish a procedural opportunity for the national assembly to move forward with the amendment of the law as soon as possible. That is why we will support in the parliamentary group the proposal of the mother labour body to essentially complete the legislative process of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u126	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal for a decision of the home working body, we will vote today at 6.20 p.m. in accordance with the meeting's timetable. I'm breaking this agenda. At 4:20 p.m., we will begin the consideration of the 4th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on War Veterans. Well, we'll be back to work in five minutes. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, government officials for your help.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u127	We're moving to second reading. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the War Veterans Act. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed colleague Visiak. Do the proponents want a word? Comrade Kelemin, please, five minutes for further explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Respectable all together. It is an extremely modest change and a complement to the war veterans' law. The proposed amendment is really brief, so there were certainly no reservations that could not be made to the content. If I just start with a topic that can be extremely topical today, the financial implications of the proposed amendments to the war veterans' law, then we find that there is no additional funding or burden on the state budget. In fact, it could be expected that expenditure for these purposes would have been reduced slightly earlier in view of the overall recession in the country of government. The reasons for the adoption of the law are simple. The point is that all organisations in this area would somehow be equal before the law and the constitution. We are therefore convinced that there will in fact be no substantive comments on the proposed content. There are also no amendments tabled, so we expect the National Assembly to adopt this amendment and to supplement the War Veterans Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u129	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina, for your further explanation. The Committee on Health, Labour, Family and Social Policy has considered this to be the working body and the president, colleague Brenčič, will present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The Committee of the National Assembly on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons considered the bill at its 33rd regular meeting on 7 May. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, and the day before the meeting we also received the written opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia before the draft law. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service notes that, under Article 1 of the existing regime, it is possible to conclude that companies and their associations are given the opportunity to compete for activities of public interest for the purpose of obtaining appropriate public funds. At the same time, I believe that it would be necessary to involve the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in these amendments, which would, within its powers, take a position on the changed concept of operation and financing of the organisations of war veterans. The legislative and legal service also adds that in the case of a decision of the National Assembly to amend the financing concept of these organisations, as far as Article 1 of the proposal of this Act contains it, the impact of this amendment on Article 3(2) and (3) of the basic law should also be examined, since the explanation of this aspect is not covered by the proposal for a law. In the written opinion of the Government, it can be found that the Government is also justifying its rejection of the law also because of the non-systemic solution that the bill brings; what more is likely to be said by a government representative. On the proposal for a law until the expiry of the deadline under Article 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, none of the qualified candidates submitted an amendment, any amendment, nor did the Committee of its amendments. The bill also did not provide any specific additional additional explanations. Therefore, given that no amendment was adopted by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family and Social Policy and by persons with disabilities as a parent working body to the proposal for a law, it was also published in the Rapporteur 16/99. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u131	Thank you very much to the chairman of the committee. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. My colleague Tisovic is not. Hey, buddy. You want a word? Excuse me, buddy Pec. Would you like a representative of the government, Secretary of State, a word? Here you go. Five minutes. I'm sorry, buddy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u132	Dear Members and Members. Mr Andrej Vizjak, the proposed amendment to the Law on War Veterans, proposes to add new paragraphs 33.a and 33.b to the Act, which should regulate the financing of the organisations of war veterans in the way that is now regulated for the Association of United Fighters of NOV Slovenia. In addition, the applicant proposes the deletion of Article 34 of the Act by which a medallion with the order of a national hero recognised by this status under the rules of the former common country shall be granted the same rights as a war veteran with a recognized period of military service from 1941 to 15.5.1945 and that the law on the financing of the New Slovenia Association of Fighters shall cease to apply as from the date of the entry into force of the Act. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that the proposed legalisation of financing of veteran organisations in the law on war veterans is a non-systemic solution, as far as the financing arrangements for veterans and other associations of war invalids and victims of war violence are even regulated, this would certainly be part of a special law and, for the time being, the co-financing of veteran societies by the Zezi of the united NOV fighters, which, in accordance with the Social Act of 1993, transformed from the former social organisation into a legal person of private law and was granted the status of a society acting in the public interest as well as other veteran associations with the status of a society acting in the public interest, is based on the programme of work of the society. In doing so, the competent ministry shall take into account the planned and implemented public interest activities in the past year, in particular in the area of socio-health care for membership, preservation of historical tradition, care for the maintenance of war graves, international activities and the wider social activity of society. The Association of NOV Fighters therefore competes for the acquisition of state budget resources under the same conditions as the rest of the war veterans' societies and irrespective of the provisions of the law on the financing of the Union of National Liberation Unions of Slovenia, which is in fact consumed as part of the previous social policy regime and is practically not used. The government opposes the proposal to delete Article 34 of the War Veterans Act, which reads: "A medallioner with the order of a national hero recognised under the rules of the former SFRJ shall be guaranteed the same rights as a war veteran with a recognised pension period of the dual duration of the summer of 1941 continuously until 15.5.1945." The order of the national hero was distributed to the fighters who had proved to be extraordinary heroic acts in the struggle against the invader between 1941 and 1945, as well as to those heroes who had fallen in battle who died in prisons or camps. In Slovenia today there are six other medals with the order of the national hero; all have a recognized pension period of two years from 1941 to 15.5.1945. The deletion of the proposed Article would not affect either the expenditure of the State budget or the material situation of the affected medallions. With regard to the proposal to delete the said article, we consider that it would be accepted in public as an outstanding political action to devalue the characterisation of the national hero and that it would also personally affect the living bearers of this distinction. For these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on war veterans is not suitable for further consideration and proposes that the State Assembly reject it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u133	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Now you have the floor, Comrade Peca. I'll put my word behind you to my colleague Kelemini. But first, my friend Peca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u134	Your Honor! The proposed intervention in the War Veterans Act is, in our opinion, an irresponsible move, an irresponsible move by the proponents. The aim of the proponents, according to our assessment, is to equalize all war veterans, both those from World War II and those from the war for independent Slovenia or from the period of independence of the Republic of Slovenia under the pretext or dictatorship of the issue of financing. The modification of funding for national liberation organisations would, according to our assessment, be a negative attitude towards the period of World War II, according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment. It is true, and we regret that in the Slovenian political space there are quite a few political representatives who are trying to change the period of World War II in every way, to create its impact on the development of the Republic of Slovenia today, and to show the Republic of Slovenia both at home and abroad, as well as someone who has cooperated with the forces that have actually attacked our country. We are never in the Slovenian National Party, and we will never agree to such theories of history. We believe in history as it was, we believe in the fight of Slovenia against the invader. Therefore, we do not dare to let ourselves in and thus cancel or destroy the values of national liberation. We estimate that such moves by individuals or political parties are the concealment or fabrication of history. However, if there had been a change to the war veterans' law, we would have estimated that this change could take only one form, namely, in amending the second chapter of that law, in Articles 5 to 22, namely, the protection of war veterans, so that those people, on the one hand, who have thus participated in the national liberation struggle and, on the other hand, have greater rights in the period of independence; they have allowed those rights that they would place in our society, which they also deserve. In short, to enable these people to live as they are in our society, they deserve, according to our assessment. Unfortunately, however, developments within the Republic of Slovenia, within the framework of politics and within the framework of the Constitutional Court, have shown that the objectives of this country and these governments and of this Constitutional Court are, unfortunately, different. According to our assessment, it came so far, unfortunately, that even those who opposed the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, those who were ashamed of Slovenian citizenship, and those who did not want Slovenian citizenship, after the last decision of the Constitutional Court, were much more valuable than veterans of the war for Slovenia alone and, on the other hand, much more valuable than those who fought during the national liberation struggle. In the Slovenian National Party, therefore, I would like to say that we will not support any proposal by the governing structures in order to reduce the status of a war veteran to the point that those so-called deleted would be more valuable than the citizens or veterans of our country. We estimate that the last act of government is shameful on the one hand. Also, according to our assessment, it is shameful to do so by a proposaler who is trying to destroy the NOB through this law. Thank you. We won't support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u135	Mr Kelemin will present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, please. He's got a buddy named Potch behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The intention of the proposer to present or examine this amendment is certainly not or not any discrimination at all, but it is also clearly stated that it is essentially a matter of simplification or equality before the Constitution and also laws. All the things a government representative predicts in some lustration and some political pressure or action on one side against the other, I think it's all twisted out of a vine, made up of fiction, made up of hatred and so forth, which, of course, some of you are constantly trying to enforce. What is pure and last and true is difficult to judge especially those who have lived in socialism and who have never been hungry and thirsty, it is difficult to judge these things, it can be assessed by those who have experienced it, experienced it, tasted it and so on. In short, our opinion in the Social Democratic Party was that these things needed to be regulated in a uniform, fair manner and I think there is no shame and no attack on anyone. But if everyone here in this country thinks that our country is simply immeasurably rich and that some rights that are already relatively large can be increased by some individuals - right. I also agree that there is a need for individual groups, as well as for even greater rights if you want, an even greater role, even greater material rights and reputation and all. Okay. Let us give them, as well as to the public, how much this cost us for an area. Let's say it! It's not a problem. We all know about all the problems that we are dealing with in the field today or in the local communities that are far from Ljubljana, the problems people are living in today. Forgiveness is immeasurable, especially in my congregation in recent times, because the government had no understanding to solve the labour intensive sectors. People who, after 30, 35 years of working for a miserable salary and saving this country, so to speak, kept alive, past and present, and gave someone a wonderful life - I'm not going to say that he didn't deserve it, he deserved it. But even those people who have worked for 30 years deserve some respect. But today, they're on the road with no severance, no everything. How will these people survive? Please tell us that some groups, some individuals from these beneficiaries, have tremendous material benefits or the potential for a better, better quality of life. Is that fair, equal, I ask you? If it is, if that's what you think, it's no problem. But I don't know if everyone thinks so. In short, I'm in favour of giving them more. Let us give them, but let us also give others the opportunity to earn their existence with normal, cultural work for their normal cultural life. In short, if this country can do so, Mr Secretary-General, I also propose, of course, on behalf of our Group of Members, that these rights be further increased. And you yourself know what rights are and how much it costs us. The whole package. In short, we have proposed that you decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u137	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, a colleague of Potrč, will now perform. Let's go, buddy. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we do not adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on War Veterans, the first-signed Master of Andrej Visiak, introduced into the legislative procedure under the previous mandate, on 11 March 1999. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will therefore vote against the law. The substance of the reasons why we will vote against the proposed law has already been defined by the Government in its opinion of 6 May 2003, as well as by the Secretary of State at the meeting today, the questionability and inadequacy of the provisions of the law proposal is also recalled by the legislature in its opinion of 22 April 2003. In the parliamentary group, we add this opinion: the financing of veteran organisations is based on a system of financing for disabled societies and societies of victims of war violence, i.e. in the same way for all societies working for the realization of interests and rights under so-called war laws, regulated in the second and third paragraphs of Article 1 of the War Veterans Act. These companies may be granted the status of a company acting in the public interest and, on the basis of the company’s programme, then also be granted funding from the State budget. On the basis of these provisions of the law, the budget of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in 2003, i.e. this year, is funded by five veteran organisations, together on the basis of those three war laws, and by twelve organisations. The applicants' claim that the organisation of war veterans from the national liberation struggle has a privileged position compared to other organisations, and in particular with the organisation of war veterans fighting for Slovenia alone, is therefore not real.The pluralism of these organisations is already enabled in the current regime. However, if paragraphs 33a and b were to be adopted, as they propose, and at the same time did not amend the first article, which now deals with this issue, there would be a complete confusion in the law, because the same thing would be discussed in two articles in a completely different way. In addition, the proposers propose to delete Article 34 of the current law without saying at all what they wish to achieve. In fact, it must be said that Article 34 of the current law regulates the rights of national heroes of national liberation and is a group of citizens and citizens who are governed by all democratic countries that respect their traditions and their national liberation struggles in a special way. The brief explanation by the applicant that these provisions should no longer make sense is certainly not sufficient, but I think that they are also offensive to war veterans. In addition, it is an unconstitutional proposal, since it is an obligation of the State under Article 18 of the Constitutional Law, acquired personal rights, and these are personal rights and cannot be withdrawn because they are obtained under law. The content of the proposed amendments and the additions are therefore not acceptable, is not sufficiently explained, is factually contradictory and is also partly unconstitutional. Therefore, Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Kebrich has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group, followed by his colleague Gasparini.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is true that in the majority of the Democratic Party of Pensioners Slovenia is an older generation, an older population. Why am I saying this? In particular, because this generation survived, fortunately, World War II, it also survived, fortunately, the war for Slovenia, that we have gained a state of our own. It is not possible to evaluate a certain proportion of those who, in 1941, when the invader or the axis of Germany-Italy was at the height of their conquests, then resisted in a minority as we were at the time as the Slovenian nation. Therefore, we believe that it is not comparable and does not go, I repeat, to evaluate those heroic acts created by national heroes, which unfortunately some are unfortunately unfortunate for many, long ago under the rubble, and those still living today still deserve this respect, as well as a certain material benefit. For, material, financial resources can never make up for those sacrifices that someone has prepared for their country to sacrifice. That is why we believe in our Group that it is right that even veterans for the independent state of Slovenia get the right status, because they also resisted the great powers at that time, but with the help of all the people, all the people, all the citizens, we have succeeded in making ourselves independent. Our parliamentary group will not support this bill and will vote against the position of the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. The proposal for a justification for the need to adopt a proposal for a law with the alleged non-conformity of financing the organisations of war veterans with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is not convincing. We believe that the existing organisation of war veterans of NOB does not have a privileged position compared to the organisations of war veterans for the war on Slovenia. The existing regulation gives companies and their associations the opportunity to compete for activities in the public interest for the acquisition of appropriate public funds on an equal footing and therefore does not, according to the law's proponents, hold that individual societies in this area are in an unequal situation. I conclude that the wording of Article 34 is unconstitutional. The acquired rights are guaranteed by our constitution and the proponents do not have the right to enforce or propose to violate the Constitution, because Article 34 of this law gives these veterans the right to do so. No one has the right to challenge them today, so our Group of Members will vote by staying and not voting in favour of the Committee's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Comrade Kebrich. Mr Gasparini will present the position of the LDS Club. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. We will not support the draft law on amendments and amendments to the war veterans law tabled by Master Andrej Vizjak in the LDS delegation, so we will vote against the decision of the mother body. The purpose of the proposed law is to abolish the special financing of the NOB Association of Fighters and to regulate the financing of all organisations of war veterans in a uniform way in the War Veterans Act. The bill's thesis is, I must say that it is unacceptable that the organisation of war veterans from the NOB has a privileged position in financing compared to the organisation of war veterans for Slovenia and that this violates equality before the law. The answer why we will not support the proposed law in the LDS Group is that there is currently no law in the Republic of Slovenia that systematically regulates the financing of all veteran organisations, as well as other associations of war disabled persons and victims of war violence. Regulating this subject within the War Veterans Act is an inappropriate solution. In the Republic of Slovenia, we are so far aware of the system of co-financing of veteran organisations with the status of a society acting in the public interest, based on the work programme of the company, which takes into account the competent ministry for the allocation of budgetary resources. The NOB Association of Fighters competes in such a normal manner for the acquisition of state budget resources under the same conditions as all other war veteran societies. Therefore, we do not consider that this is a violation of the principle of equality before the law, since all societies must demonstrate themselves through a public benefit programme, we propose rejecting the bill and we will do so in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Comrade Brenčič - does not wish to present his views. That's how we ended up with this part of the point. The competent working body has not adopted any amendments to the draft law, so there are no amendments tabled for the meeting of the assembly, and there is no way to discuss the articles of the amendments tabled. I hereby conclude the second reading of the draft law and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we shall vote on the law on Thursday 29.5. after the end of the last item of the agenda. I hereby end this point by 5 p.m. and 10 minutes, when we continue the second reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on criminal proceedings submitted by the Government to the assembly. So we'll continue at 5 p.m. and 10 minutes, until then, I'm adjourning.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u144	We're moving on with our work. We're in the second defense of the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on criminal procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. Before I give the floor to the representative of the Government, this will probably be the Secretary of State, I would ask you to take your seats so that the Secretary of State can further explain the bill and has 5 minutes to do so. Please. Secretary of State Jenull.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Members and Members. The criminal procedure shall govern the functioning of the criminal court of other State authorities and all other actors in determining whether a criminal offence has been committed, who is the perpetrator and what sanctions must be imposed. Interests that predominate this procedure are contradictory, the inputs that are in play are large and therefore the procedure is by definition conflicting. It cannot be overlooked that the final outcome of the procedure is not only confirmation or rejection of the charge or defence thesis, but also a certificate of the work of all the authorities involved. It is therefore understandable that they are working towards such a process in which their work will be optimal means that futures of those that allow for the desired results. The aim of the State is to balance their procedural powers or weapons by ensuring the achievement of the basic objective of the procedure. However, this is not uniform, nor is it just bipolar, as would be the result of the highlighted discussions on the situation of the alleged perpetrator and the victim. Criminal law primarily protects important social values and is therefore subject to special social attention. In our public opinion, it has begun to prevail that our criminal procedure is not good, it is not effective that a new, better law must be written as soon as possible, with a different formula, to resolve conflicts of interest that are being clarified in the process. In doing so, I would like to draw particular attention to this, it has not been and certainly has not been proven that our criminal procedure is ineffective, even less that it is the law that is responsible. And if we go any further, one step further from the idea that the law is not good, in this case, to the question of what this better criminal procedure is, until then, a unified opinion falls apart into as many variants as the debaters. To keep this in mind, it is easy to be sure that if you look at the expert debates on this amendment of the law and before it, from the point of view that we have already missed the time for systemic changes, it is not necessary to change at all. In doing so, one and the other sign doctoral titles. I am sure that, despite such differing opinions, the proposer and the legislator have acted wisely so far as they have changed and amended the law, and that they will do so even if the proposed amendments are adopted. Only what the Constitutional Court has recognised as the opposite of stopping is changed, and solutions are formulated within the current concept of mixed procedure, with some elements of acousticity. This gives time to discuss future systemic changes, to order and obtain theoretical and empirical research into the direction changes that are already under way and are ahead of completion, and to allow for some changes that the majority consent to be necessary to be tested to a lesser extent in practice. The proposed amendment therefore, in the spirit of a constitutional decision, in addition to establishing a new exclusion reason, removes the validity of police notices from the field prohibited, which is infected, into the field permitted, under legal conditions, and also for the judgment of valid evidence. There is no reason for all police work to continue to be at the level of material evidence, which may be even more important, recognised as legal, and in the area of personal evidence illegal, even in cases where it is carried out under constitutional procedural guarantees with the presence of the defender as provided for in these amendments. However, there remains a judicial investigation into cases which the police would not be able to solve on their own or if the parties did not have the consent to exercise their new powers. Finally, there's something else about the so-called patching of marriage. In the years since its entry into force, this is 1994, this is the fifth novel. The Federal Republic of Germany adopted its Criminal Procedure Act in 1989; it certainly prepared it long and carefully. Since then, within just a little while of the validity of our law, the German has been changed 50 times to this day. Today, at a time of globalisation of crime, technological development, integration of countries at the level of investigation and prosecution of crime, systems that would be valid for a decade are no longer the same, even in other countries. Therefore, it would not be right for this national assembly to have a bad feeling because the law, but not just that, must be amended. It is already possible to predict that the two new constitutional decisions will almost certainly be followed by at least another amendment to the law. On the other hand, the practice so far has been well accepted and applied without any particular problems. I am sure that this will be the case with this bill, and therefore I propose that you accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u146	Thank you very much. President Lavrinc, as chairman of the committee, would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Otherwise, as rapporteur, he was appointed Vice-President of the Internal Policy Committee, but today he is absent for official reasons and I have taken up this role myself. So the report contains what has actually been presented here, and this has been said, perhaps a little bit more circumscribed, at a meeting of the committee. The representative of the legislative and legal service said that the rapporteur had taken most of the comments of the legislative and legal service into account, so that we jointly prepared amendments to the committee, which then became an integral part of the text. With regard to the comments not contained in these amendments, the opinion was somehow drawn up that the drafting of the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act might be further elaborated. The very comments or concerns of the legislative and legal service are listed in the report and would not repeat them. I must say that these presentations were not followed by an exciting debate, on the contrary, there was little debate. One of the members of the Committee said that their Group of Members would not support these changes to the CAP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u148	Thank you, chairman of the committee. Now the representatives of the parliamentary groups, of course those present, will be given the floor. First, I give the floor to my colleague Ptræ, who will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, behind him, Comrade Vukko. Please, buddy Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The fundamental reason and purpose of the proposed amendments and the amendment of the law is the finding by the Constitutional Court that the provisions of the current law are inconsistent with the Constitution because they allow the judge to decide the main matter even if he is aware of the notices which may affect his impartiality. In doing so, the Constitutional Court notes and stresses that the criminal procedure must ensure, at the same time and equally, the effectiveness of the criminal procedure and the conviction of perpetrators of criminal offences, as well as the protection of the rights and freedoms of the individual in criminal proceedings. The latter, however, requires not only guarantees on the independence of the judiciary as a special branch of the judiciary, but also such solutions to the criminal procedure are necessary so that the judge, in accordance with the principle of directity, can rely solely on the fact and evidence to carry out the main proceedings. The adoption of solutions that will ensure compliance with this Constitutional Court decision is essential, as it has resulted in the abolition or reopening of several large and publicly rebuttal criminal cases before other Chambers. The general public does not have to judge the reason for such a situation, so it is increasingly felt that the judiciary is ineffective, particularly to detect and punish perpetrators of the most dangerous and repudial crimes, in order to specifically increase corruption, crime of white collars and organised crime. In particular, these are the reasons why the proposed amendments and amendments to the law are applicable. In doing so, we would like to draw attention to the following in the United List of Social Democrats. In the bad nine years since the new law has been in force, we have changed it and completed it five times. For many, all the changes so far have not achieved the desired effects. We wish it were better this time. Another time. We are against reckless solutions adopted under the influence of daily political assessments or public criticism, built only on individual public-response cases. However, it is also necessary to overcome the inefficiency of the profession, which is only slowly proposing solutions. It is generally true - and it is difficult to argue - that among the participants in the criminal procedure, the most successful lawyers, the police, the prosecution and the courts are still trying to show their success and progress in the operation that does not show denying it, which is often strongly shaken by unsolved cases that each of us would be able to list with names and surnames. Support for the proposed amendments and amendments to the law therefore means, above all, recognition of the difficulties we are in. It means wanting to do everything to restore confidence in justice, that a large majority of citizens and citizens would begin to believe that the majority of perpetrators of crimes are facing a well-deserved penalty, that the state is successful and impartial in prosecuting crimes, that no one can be punished only because of public demands, if the blame is not uncontested, and that no one can be forgiven just because there is an influential situation, a lot of money or good lawyers. These are, however, frequent opinions that need to be denied by better legislation and practice. We want the proposed amendments and amendments to the law to be as much a step as possible in this direction and therefore we support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u150	Good. Before I invite my colleague Vukkot to the floor, I give the floor to my colleague. I missed him earlier because he wasn't sitting in his seat. A colleague of Peca has five minutes to present the views of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group and then, indeed, colleague Vukko. Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u151	Your Honor! Ensuring justice, order and peace is essentially the Slovenian national party's motto of action. I believe that all political parties within this National Assembly and those who are not yet in this Chamber want the Slovenian society to become such a society, to condemn crimes and to condemn them in a way that will be as short as possible and in a way that will be as fair as possible. So if I touch on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on criminal procedure and if we are following the objectives, principles and main solutions, proposed amendments and additions by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the initial phase, we must stress that we agree with the first conclusion in the Slovenian National Party, namely that the law was created as a result of the abolition of the non-compliance of the law on criminal proceedings with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, since we seek to respect the legal principles in the National Party, namely the hierarchy of legal acts and, above all, the adoption of constitutional principles, we do not agree with the first conclusion or the first tendency of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, we consider that the substance of the proposed amendments, i.e. the Criminal Code or the Criminal Procedure Act, in the so-called second chapter, is to accelerate and improve the effectiveness of criminal proceedings, and we have one and the most important point in our assessment within the SNS Group of Members. Thus, the basic question, which is also based on the introductory words of a government representative, which is given an introductory short explanation of the law, is that the Criminal Procedure Act governs the functioning of all participants throughout the process. The emphasis is on the word "all participants" and from here comes our basic assessment or criticism of the proposed law. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that, if the Government's intention was serious in drafting the law, i.e. after the greater effectiveness of all participants, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would also propose constitutional changes in the area of a permanent judicial mandate, in parallel with this law, which has been in preparation for some time. Let me point out here that in the Slovenian National Party, we have already offered a decision to this National Assembly in 2001 which, according to our assessment, would allow for better quality and, above all, work which will be reflected on the basis of competition, this is a limitation of the judicial mandate. According to our assessment so far, the constitutional regime, i.e. the unlimited judicial mandate in this area, i.e. in the area of the Criminal Procedure Act, allows for a long-term, complex and, above all, ineffective resolution of these proceedings. At that time, the National Assembly adopted or supported the proposal of the Slovenian National Party on the limitation of the judicial mandate, but the Government, due to its ignorance as a rule to the functioning of the Slovenian National Party and, in a particular case, also to the National Assembly, did not prepare such an assessment or legal harmonisation and the restrictions of the judicial mandate. In addition, I should remind you that a proposal for constitutional amendments with the first-signed representatives of the Slovenian National Party, which sought to restrict the permanent judicial mandate, has led to competitiveness and greater efficiency in the work of the courts. And according to our assessment, such a proposal should also be covered in a certain part of the Criminal Procedure Act, thus, according to our assessment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would show that it is serious about the proposal of the Criminal Procedure Act and, in particular, about the objectives and the pursuit of better and more effective functioning of Slovenian courts. Unfortunately, however, we fear that there is no serious purpose for this law in our country, unfortunately. Well, I will continue with the third set of reasons for the changes mentioned by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, proposals arising from the removal of ambiguity. Of course, the third set is meaningful and we also support it in the Slovenian National Party, as well as in the fourth set, which somehow introduces terminology harmonisation. We will not oppose the law in the Slovenian National Party despite the greatest shortcomings, namely the lack or still existence of a permanent judicial mandate. However, we fear that the law will not produce the desired effects, or if the legislative branch of power - because the executive branch of power has already said so that it still wishes to have a judicial mandate in the form of a permanent mandate - will not limit the judicial mandate. Once again, we appeal from this city to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to join in a concrete way, that is to limit their permanent term of office to the judges. We will not oppose the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Comrade Wolf, three minutes to present the position of the LDS Club, behind you, Comrade Diaca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the law or amendment of the law. In particular, we will support this because, in the first place, it is a matter of implementing a constitutional decision relating to the exclusional reason for the judge or to the so-called infection of judges. The second reason that led us to support this novel is that the novel itself introduces changes in the forecasting process and contains some new institutes that will improve the forecasting process. It is the right of the defendant and his advocate to review the official marks that the Prosecutor has removed from the file; the direction of the police by the State Prosecutor, which we consider to be particularly important; then the hearing can only take place before the police in the presence of the Prosecutor, and the Prosecutor may also be present. The new law also contains a penal order, and we support this institution. In addition to all the amendments mentioned above, we believe that further analysis of the forecasting process should be undertaken and that this law should continue to be supplemented in the future. It is not the best thing to supplement the law on criminal proceedings or forecasting procedures at all times with various novelties, but it is still better than nothing, since we are constantly getting new insights in this area. We will vote in favour of the amendment of the law in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u154	Thank you very much. My friend Diaca, you're giving up. Mag. Kramberger, then it is your turn to present the views of the SLS Group; this will also end the presentation of the views. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The drafter of the law was the Government, which filed a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on criminal procedure after the Constitutional Court concluded last March that the work of the existing law was incompatible with our constitution. The Constitutional Court ordered the National Assembly to remedy the deficiencies within one year of this decision. The existing law on criminal proceedings does not provide for an effective way to prevent a judge deciding on the main matter from being informed of the notices obtained in the pre-trial proceedings. In accordance with the main comments of the Legal and Legislative Service, the proposal for a law was duly corrected and organised. In the reviews, the proposer of the legislative and legal services proposals has a legitimate follow-up, as otherwise he should fall into the system of law itself. In our parliamentary group, we believe that the draft law takes into account the need for a more precise definition of the form of police and state prosecutors' participation in the detection of crimes and perpetrators of crimes. We believe that the need to regulate this issue has often been demonstrated in practice and therefore that its regulatory framework in the Criminal Procedure Act is necessary and appropriate. Such legislation will, in our view, also contribute to faster and more effective enforcement of criminal proceedings. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the draft law also provides for other meaningful solutions to the current overload of the courts. In doing so, we focus on the introduction of new forms of reduced procedures that would apply to minor social threats. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as a proponent after the examination of the system in comparable European countries, has foreseen the introduction of a criminal order representing an institution that will subsequently contribute to a faster resolution of criminal matters. It is also important to stress that the speeding up of procedures does not in any way reduce the rights of accused and injured persons. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on criminal procedure, not least because it eliminates those uncertainties which have not yet been clarified and resolved in the context of consistent amendments and additions to the law. We believe that this is a quality proposal that introduces the necessary changes and supplements. That's why we're going to support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u156	We're with your show, Comrade Mag. Kramberger, completed the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups. No amendments have been tabled to the draft law, no discussion on the articles is possible. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on Thursday 29 May following the end of the agenda. Until then, I also interrupt this agenda item. At 5:50 a.m., the National Assembly will move on to point 7 – this is the second reading of the proposed Land Book Act. It won't be a long debate. Immediately after that, we will move on to a decision on matters of today's agenda. That'll be 6:20. At 5:50 a.m., I'm adjourning the session until then.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u157	Proposal for an Earth Book Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. Secretary of State Jenull will have a brief supplementary explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u158	President, thank you very much. Dear Members and Members. With the adoption of the real law, which entered into force on 1 January this year, it was stipulated that its novelties would also have to be adapted to the 1995 Land Book Act. The amendments to this law also made changes to the law on enforcement and insurance. But it's not just about getting in line with other laws. Among the reasons for the adoption of the new Land Book Act are the shortcomings of the current law, which in practice proved to be in force during the eight-year period. We were reminded of the need to rationalise the operation of the land book by German experts in the framework of the pre-accession project to join the European Union and of the simplification of the land-booking procedures and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the framework of the project on the modernisation of real estate recording. The Earth Book as the central record of real rights is moving in time, as the project of informing or implementing the electronic land book is approaching its conclusion. These are all the reasons for the new proposed regulation of land book law. Among the most important novelties of the law are: the adaptation of the registration system to the land licence, which has been substantively defined by the real law code. The conditions laid down for the content to be fulfilled by all the instruments which are the basis for the entry are laid down and additional conditions for its content are laid down in respect of the land licence. Since one of the reasons and purpose of the new law is to rationalise the operation of entries in the Land Book, so that the Court examines only the general conditions for entry laid down by law and the other conditions are checked in the procedure for notary certificate of signature on authorisation, it was also appropriate to lay down specific rules on the authorisation of land registers. The competence to decide on entries at the first stage between the Land Book References and the Judges or the Professional Fellows is further exchanged. Due to the transparency of land-book entries, a rule is gradually established whereby each property is entered in its land-book deposit and exceptions are also laid down. The proposed Land Book Act also regulates two new, special procedures, namely the procedure for supplementing the Land Book and the procedures for establishing the Land Book Charter, which will solve the problem of many owners, in particular in certain parts of the building in essential property, if they do not have the originals of the contracts, some even have no copies, and the seller's signatures on copies cannot be verified for various reasons today. The principle of trust in the land book is the original principle of land book law. We believe that the owner of the property is the one in the land book. Voluntary persons who have gained the right to trust in the Land Book shall therefore also be protected against the rights of third parties which are based on legal facts which have not been entered into the Land Book. Such arrangements shall apply the principle of the protection of a voluntary acquirer. The Land Book Act is designed as a system-wide rounding of all rules of land book law. It contains general provisions defining the basic concepts, basic principles, content of the entries, the types of entries and documents which form the basis for the registration, the land-booking procedure, the manner in which the registrations and the management of the collection of documents are carried out, the specific procedures, the deleted action and the corresponding transitional and final provisions are established. The law upholds the fundamental principles of land bookkeeping. This is primarily the principle of the public, the principle of trust in the land book, the principle of the legal predecessor and the principle of order. The Land Book Procedure is defined as a specific type of unfair procedure and its specificities are reflected in the speed principle, the principle of order of decision on admissions, the limitation of the principle of hearing of participants, the principle of formality of the procedure and the principle of dispositiveness of the procedure. The entry is subject to rights, legal facts and rights holders. The types of entries are books, prescriptions and inscriptions, as well as new lectures and seals, as a type of auxiliary entry that makes public the initiation of the land-booking procedure. The Act is expected to enter into force on the 90th day following its publication in the Official Journal, as it is necessary for the practice to become familiar with the new rules on land. The advantages of the new Land Book Act, according to the applicant, will undoubtedly be one of the basis for a faster process of entering real rights into the Land Book due to the system-wide rules. We therefore propose to the National Assembly that this law be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u159	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Comrade Komljanec will present the report of the Internal Policy Committee, which considered the proposal to be a competent working body. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u160	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members. At its 35th meeting, on 7 April 2003, the Committee of the National Assembly on Internal Policy considered the draft law on the Land Book, which was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in its second reading. On the basis of the additional explanations provided by the Government and the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Committee has drawn up and adopted amendments to Articles 25, 29, 31, 36, 40, 55, 74, 75, 81, 95, 101, 145, 161, 224, 244 and 247 of the proposal. Most amendments are editorial in nature. The Committee limited much of its discussion to paragraphs 38 and 247 of Article 247 of the law. In the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the deletion of Article 247 fifth paragraph was proposed, thereby depriving municipalities of the pre-primary right to property, with which some members of the Committee did not agree to take up an instrument to enable municipalities to create their own housing policy. On the contrary, most members of the Committee felt that the proposed arrangement was good, since, in the case of a preliminary right of the municipality, it would be very hampered by the sale of essential property. We also did not see any obstacles to resolving this differently by means of a later regulation, if necessary. Let me also point out that in the report of the Committee of 15.5., in the supplementary proposal of the Act on the 7th paragraph of Article 40, a word was mistakenly omitted in a round-up, so that the 7th paragraph of Article 40 of the amended proposal of the Act correctly reads as follows: "7. A legal decision issued in a real estate enforcement procedure or insolvency proceedings whereby the court which issued this decision, hereinafter referred to as the ‘executive or bankruptcy court’, ordered the registration of the property right in the interest of the buyer or the deletion of other rights on the property or the decision to secure the monetary claim to the property by which the executing court ordered the booking of that lie." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u161	Thank you very much, committee rapporteur. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. My colleague Lavricheva, you are the first to present your position. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Members and Members of the Government! In view of the timing of the drafting of the law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia expected a more corrective and more comprehensive approach to the resolution of the material of the Land Book and all legal transactions in relation to records, statistics, exchange, information, rights, permits, entries and instructions. We estimate that this law should contain all the above-mentioned activities, and that the law follows only some, namely information, court discharge, transparency, land-booking, which will in any case result in facilitating the rights and obligations of interested and legally designated users. Despite these shortcomings, we intend to support the proposal of the law in the Slovenian National Party, because we believe that any solution is a positive step forward. Again, I would like to point out that it would be advisable in the law to find the solutions envisaged for the new law, the law of origin, which we fear is still very far removed from its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u163	Thank you very much. My friend Wolf is away. Then a colleague of Kramberger has, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In our Group of Members, we believe that the adoption of the Land Book Act is necessary due to a number of changes in real estate law legislation. The proposed law simplifies certain outdated mechanisms in the law so far and in particular aligns the land book with the provisions of the real law and the building law. In particular, some new real estate rights, such as a building right established by a real law, allowing the acquisition of a building permit to a person who is not the owner of a land plot, but who can acquire a building right under a lease contract. The law also aligns certain other concepts with those laws. The opinion of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group is that the legal text is a good basis for simplifying real estate records, which in this way are given the opportunity to inform the Land Book and the Land Cadastre; they become the basis for the development of a modern real estate market, of course after the courts have eliminated the accumulated backlogs. The Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy will carry out the registration of buildings owned by several floor owners. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that if the existing legislation regulating real estate records is shown in the future, it will not allow for a new, effective update, that it may also be necessary to consider simplifying the real estate recording system and thereby amending the Land Book Act and the Land Cadastre Act. We will support the law in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u165	Thank you very much, colleague mag. Kramberger. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. The debate is closed and the second discusses the proposal of the law. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will decide on the law in full on Thursday 29 of this month, following the end of the last item of the agenda. I am also terminating this agenda item for today, and the debate on the proposals for laws at 18.20 minutes will move the State Assembly to a vote. Our vote will begin with a decision on the proposal by fellow Member Diacia to hold a debate on the response of the Prime Minister to his parliamentary question, colleague Vnučec, I apologize for the response of the Prime Minister mags. Robbery today on his question. At 6:20 p.m., I invite all my colleagues and colleagues to a large debate room to start our decision-making process. Until then, I'm adjourning.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u166	It's 20 past 6:00 p.m. We'll continue our regular session. We will move to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before that, I'm going to ask you to take your seats so you can put your cards in right so you can check it out, because we're going to make a decision. Please recheck the cards so that there will be no objection to the failure of the vote. If no one objects, we'll move on to a decision. First, we're going to interrupt 1. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. May I have your attention in the hall, please? Mr Vnučec proposed a decision, which reads: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to the question of the Government's questions about the Government's measures against poverty and the increasing distribution of the people of Slovenia." Please vote on this motion for a decision. We vote on the proposal for a decision. 49 in attendance, 14 in and 32 in. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 32.]] The proposed decision was not adopted. We're moving to 2. Period of the day - Second defense proposal of the residence law. We will decide on the amendments tabled. First of all, we will vote on the amendment of the LDS and the ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS to Article 27. It is possible, however, that there is always an explanation for the voice. I'll wait as long as I can assess it's necessary to find out if anyone wants to apply. However, I ask that you pay attention to this too, and that you do not raise your hands too late in the middle of the vote, which then needs to be suspended. We are voting on the amendment of the LDS Member Club and the ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS to Article 27. Please. 51 present, 46 for and 4 against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] This amendment has been adopted. We have two amendments to Article 28. Both are submitted by the SMS Group of Members. Sorry, we will first vote on the Government's amendment to the amendment of the SMS Group to Article 28 and then on the amendment of the SMS Group to Article 28. We can first decide on the government's amendment to the SMS amendment. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? We are voting first on the government's amendment to the SMS amendment. 54 in attendance, 45 in and 5 in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I see he's been accepted. Thus, we can now also decide on the amendment of the SMS Group to Article 28. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? 51 present, 45 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. In Article 31, we have the first decision on the amendment of the government to the amendment of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group and then the amendment of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group to Article 31. First, we are voting on the government's amendment to the amendment of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. 55 in attendance, 49 in and 5 in. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This allows us to decide on the amendment of Article 31 of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. We're voting. 56 present, 52 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. May I have your attention in the hall? Order! Under Article 33, we have the amendment of four groups of Members. We decide on the amendment of the four groups of Members to Article 33. 58 present, 50 for and 5 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it we've accepted this amendment. By Article 41, we have the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Article 41 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Members. Can we vote? Please! 59 in attendance, 18 in and 37 in. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. In the morning part of the meeting, we were informed that only the amendment referred to in point 1 of Article 35 has been tabled and the amendment referred to in point 2 has been tabled under Article 46. We therefore have the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 45. It's up to us. 61 in attendance, 16 in and 40 in. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have an amendment to Article 46 of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party. We decide on this amendment. 60 in attendance, 16 in and 43 in. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. By Article 47, we have the amendment of the four groups of Members. We decide on the amendment of the four groups of Members to Article 47. May I have your attention, please? We are with Article 47 and the amendment of the four groups of Members. 62 present, 54 for and 3 for. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. By Article 52, we have the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. We're voting on him. May I have your attention, we're in the middle of a vote. He wasn't accepted. 62 present, 20 for, 38 versus. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] The amendment was not accepted. We have the amendment of the four groups of Members to Article 62. We decide on him. The amendment received sufficient support, 61 present, 50 for and 9 against. (For the vote was 50.)(against 9.) The amendment was adopted. The Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party shall submit an amendment to Article 75. We decide about him, we're in the middle of a vote. 63 present, 8 for and 50 against. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 50.]] I'm guessing he didn't get the support he needed. We have an amendment of two parliamentary groups of the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia to Article 87. We vote on this amendment. We are at Article 87 and in the middle of the vote. 63 present, 20 for, 40 versus. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] The amendment was not accepted. Under Article 91, we have tabled both the amendment of the four parliamentary groups as well as the amendment of the SDS and New Slovenia parliamentary groups. If the amendment of the LDS, ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS groups is adopted, then the amendment of the two parliamentary groups will become irrelevant. We will first decide on the amendment of the four parliamentary groups to Article 91. We're voting. 61 in attendance, 46 in and 14 in. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and that this has made the proposal of two SDS and NSI members irrelevant. The same warning will apply in the case of Article 92, only this time it will become a meaningless amendment of the four groups of Members if the amendment of the New Slovenia Group is adopted. Please, Comrade Sok, explain your vote on behalf of the Group or on behalf of the Group?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. I'm withdrawing our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u168	Parliamentary Group withdraws the amendment of New Slovenia. Just to find out once again whether an amendment can be withdrawn before the vote itself or whether it needs to be decided again. I'll just be a minute. [[...]] Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure provides that if we so wish, the amendments should be withdrawn until the end of the debate, so that we have to decide on it. We will first vote on Nsi's proposal for Article 92. We're voting. Present 60, 14 for and 43 for. He didn't get the support he needed. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 43.]] The amendment didn't get any support. This allows us to decide on the amendment of the four groups of Members to Article 92. We're voting. We are in the middle of the vote on the amendment of the four parliamentary groups to Article 92. This one's got support. Present 59, 48 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment received support. The same four parliamentary groups also table an amendment to Article 95. That's what we decide. We are voting on the amendment of the four parliamentary groups to Article 95. May I have your attention and peace in the hall? We're in the middle of a vote. Present 57, 44 for and 11 for. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the proposal has received the necessary support. We have two amendments tabled under Article 101. If the amendment of the SDS and NSI members is adopted, it will become a meaningless amendment of the LDS, ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS. We are voting first on the amendment of SDS and NSI to Article 101. Please. Present 65, 22 for and 41 for. This proposal did not receive the necessary support. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 41.]] The amendment didn't get any support. We decide on the amendment of LDS, ZLSD, SLS and DesUS. We're voting. This amendment has received the necessary support. Present 65, 49 for and 15 for. We have tabled four amendments to Article 105 and in the order marked in the amendment review, we will also vote on them. First, on the Government's amendment to the SDS's amendment to Article 105(1). We're voting. Present 66, 55 for and 10 for. This proposal has received the necessary support. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 10.]] The proposal received support. We are now deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 105, paragraph 1. We're voting. Present 65, 61 for and 2 for. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] He's got the required majority. The SDS Group tabled an amendment to Article 105, paragraph 4, and Article 105, paragraph 5, the fifth paragraph of the amendment does not refer to an amendment, but rather to a new fifth paragraph. We can decide. Please. This proposal did not receive the necessary support. 65 present, 21 for and 43 for. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposal did not receive support. And the last amendment of the four groups of Members to Article 105. We're voting. 60 in attendance, 48 in and 9 in. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the proposal has received the necessary support. We have three amendments to 105.a., all three have been tabled by the Socialist Party's Group of Members. We will vote in kind, such as the proposals or amendments listed in the review. First of all, we are voting on the first amendment of the SDS Group to Article 105.a. We're voting. 60 in attendance, 18 in and 40 in. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are voting on the second amendment of Article 105a of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group. 62 present, 20 for and 40 for. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are now voting on the third amendment of the same Group of Members to 105.a. 57 present, 18 for and 38 for. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that this amendment has not received the necessary support as well. We also have an Article 105.b and a Supplement to the Four Groups of Members. We're voting on him. May I have your attention, please? We are in the vote on the amendment of the four groups of Members to Article 105.b. 58 in attendance, 44 in and 10 in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has received the necessary support. We have tabled an amendment to Article 106 of the same parliamentary groups. We are voting on the amendment of the LDS, ZLSD, SLS and DesUS to Article 106. 63 present, 45 for and 12 against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are going to 109th Article, to which the amendments of the same parliamentary group are being tabled. We decide on the amendment of the four groups of Members to Article 109. We're voting. 63 present, 41 for and 9 for. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are at the 112th and amendment of the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. 67 present, 23 for and 40 for. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. The four members of the Group shall submit an amendment to Article 118. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment of the four parliamentary groups to Article 118. 60 present. 42 for and 7 for. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the seven.]] The amendment was supported. The same four amendment groups shall be tabled by Article 118a. We decide on this amendment. We decide on the amendment of the four parliamentary groups to Article 118a. 58 in attendance, 43 in and 5 in. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was accepted. The same four parliamentary groups also table an amendment to Article 119. We decide that. We are voting on the amendment of the four parliamentary groups to Article 119. 59 in attendance, 49 in and 5 in. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment has received sufficient support. The amendment was tabled by the Socialist Party's parliamentary group by Article 120. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 120. We're voting. May I have your attention and peace in the hall? We're in the middle of a vote. Peace in the hall! Article 120, amendment of the SDS Group of Members. 63 present, 18 for and 44 for. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 44.]] He didn't get the support he needed. The four members of the group tabled an amendment to the following Article 121. We'll decide about him. We decide on the amendment of the four groups of Members to Article 121. We are voting on the amendment of the four parliamentary groups to Article 121. 56 present, 39 for and 15 versus. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 15.]] He's got the support he needs. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS and NSI to Article 135. We're making a decision. We decide on the amendment of these two parliamentary groups, which was tabled under Article 135. 60 present. 14 for and 44 for. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 44.]] He didn't get the support he needed. The same two groups have also tabled an amendment to Article 136. We are voting on the amendment of SDS and NSI to Article 136. 56 in attendance, 16 in and 39 in. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. The same two parliamentary groups shall table an amendment to Article 137. We decide on the amendment of SDS and NSI to Article 137. 60 in attendance, 16 in and 42 in. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 42.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. Please, if there is peace in the Chamber during the vote so that we do not make any procedural mistakes. By Article 138, the SDS and NSIs have tabled an amendment. It's up to us. 65 present, 19 for and 43 for. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 43.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. 140th Article - we have the amendment of SDS and New Slovenia's parliamentary groups. We also have amendments from LDS, ZLSD, SLS and DesUS. We will first decide on the amendment of the SDS members of Parliament, NSI to Article 140. We're making a decision. 61 present, 21 for and 38 for. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 38.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. We are now voting on the amendment of the four parliamentary groups to Article 140. Please. 61 in attendance, 41 in and 14 in. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 14th.]] The amendment has been adopted, and so is the amendment to Article 154 tabled by these two groups. I propose that we first decide on Article 154 and then return to Article 145. We therefore decide on the amendment of the LDS, ZLSD and DeSUS to Article 154 as you have in the review. May I have your attention, please? 58 present, 38 to and 13 to. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 13.]] This amendment has been adopted. Now we're back to Article 145. We have two amendments tabled, namely the Socialist Party's Group of Members. We will first vote on the first amendment of this Group to Article 145. We're voting. We are voting first on the first amendment, as before you in the review. 60 in attendance, 18 in and 37 in. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing he's been rejected. We are now voting on the second amendment of the same parliamentary group to Article 145. 61 in attendance, 18 in and 37 in. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 37.]] This one's been rejected, too. The SDS Group has also tabled an amendment to Article 146. We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 146. Peace in the hall! 53 present, 17 for and 35 for. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 35.]] He didn't get the support he needed. The four members of the group tabled an amendment to Article 165. We vote on the amendment of the four groups of Members to Article 165. The amendment was accepted. 62 present, 45 for and 10 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The same four parliamentary groups also table an amendment to Article 166. We vote on the amendment of the four parliamentary groups to Article 166. 52 present, 35 for and 11 for. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're getting close to the end. We have some votes ahead, first of all on the amendment of the same parliamentary groups to Article 167. We're voting. 64 present, 44 for and 12 against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The same parliamentary groups shall table an amendment to Article 168. We're voting. 58 in attendance, 43 in and 8 in. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The four parliamentary groups also table an amendment to Article 169. We're voting. 63 in attendance, 42 in and 13 in. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are going to the 170th article, where we have two amendments, first four groups of Members and then two other groups of Members, SDS and NSI. We will first decide on the amendment of four parliamentary groups, LDS, ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS. We're voting. Comrade Juice, please. An explanation of the voice? Please. On behalf of the delegation? Please, colleague Sok, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u169	So that maybe we can stop this monotonous vote and push the keys a little bit. I will support the amendment of the two parliamentary groups to Article 170, which is because this amendment somehow saves the essence of Article 170. It is illogical that in denationalisation apartments, even those beneficiaries who could pay, according to social criteria, a profitable rent, may continue to pay a non-profit rent, while the owner under this law and under other regulations is forced to take care of the property as a good host. That is, I would say, in a way the depravity of this 170th article. If this amendment had been adopted, then in some ways this illogicality would have been eliminated, but not on television, I don't know, two or three days ago we're watching the denationalisation collapse of the restored building, and the owner doesn't have the resources to rebuild the building, and in this building are the inhabitants. It's a misbehavior. We wanted to explain this to the Minister in previous discussions and discussions on the Committee, but there was no listening. I suggest you support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u170	Please, Comrade Jelinčič. We will first vote on the amendment of the four groups of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just one thing. In the second amendment, I would suggest that the proposers correct the word 'demand' in the word 'demand', otherwise the sentence makes no sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-27-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u172	You are cautioned about the editorial change. It is not possible to change now at this stage, it will only be possible to do this later. It's going to be done by the legislature. Now we're going to make a decision. We will first vote on the amendment of the four parliamentary groups to Article 170. The National Assembly is ready to make a decision. Please, we are voting on the amendment of the four parliamentary groups to Article 170. Present 65, 50 for and 9 for. This amendment to Article 170 has been adopted. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 9th.]] This amendment to Article 170 has been adopted. We are now voting on the amendment of two SDS and New Slovenia parliamentary groups to Article 170. Please. Present 64, 23 for and 34 for. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 34.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. We have two more amendments. One to 192.a. and the other to 193. Both amendments were tabled by LDS, ZLSD, SLS and DesUS. We will first decide on their amendment to Article 192.a. We're voting. The amendment was accepted. Present 65, 43 and 16 versus. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 16.]] The amendment was accepted. Now we have a final decision on the amendment of the four parliamentary groups to Article 193. We're making a decision. Please. 64 present, 41 and 16 up. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 16.]] This amendment has also been adopted. Since the amendments to more than one-tenth of the articles were adopted in the second reading of the draft law, the assembly will hold the third reading of the proposal at the next meeting. Therefore, on the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of our Rules of Procedure, I now propose to the Assembly that we adopt a decision: the proposal for a third-reading law is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are voting on this proposal. We vote on the proposal to draw up a bill for the third hearing. The decision is adopted. Present 64, 49 for and 10 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 10.]] The decision is adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. With regard to the third point, which we have interrupted after the discussion in the context of the second reading of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, we must now decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which is in second reading, is not suitable for further consideration." We decide that. We decide on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on marriage and family relations is not suitable for further consideration. 55 in attendance, 40 in and 11 in. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 11.]] The decision was not adopted. Master Petty Officer, I was particularly careful whether you would sign up early enough, but you didn't, so I couldn't give you a word during the vote. So the decision was taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also interrupt today's session. We'll pick him up tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you all for your presence and patience today. At 10 a.m. tomorrow, we continue to discuss the points and in the evening decisions on them. I want a very pleasant evening and good-bye by tomorrow.
