ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good day! I begin the continuation of the 29th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following Members and Members: Bogdan Barovič, Roberto Battelli, Janez Cimperman, Silva Črnugelj, Marko Diaci, Zoran Gračner, Roman Jakič, Aurelio Juri, Ivan Mamić from 2 p.m. on, Aloise Peterle, Franz Pukšič and Janko Weber. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION AND AMENDMENTS TO THE ADDITIONAL LAW. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill. Mrs Milojka Kolar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u2	Well-welcome, distinguished President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the value added tax law, which the second treatment is to be carried out at today's session, complements the existing system of value added tax with a new regime for the taxation of goods and services between the Member States of the European Union. We anticipate that the law will apply from the date of entry into the EU, which is 1 May next year. However, the time between the adoption of the law and its entry into force is necessary for the preparation of both implementing rules and technical harmonisation in the tax service, as well as in the case of taxable persons. The proposal does not change the basic principles of value-added tax on goods and services, but extends their implementation, for example, between Member States. Thus, goods are generally subject to taxation under the principle of the Member State of destination where transactions between debtors identified as taxable for value added tax purposes are concerned. However, if the goods are purchased by the final consumer, then this traffic is taxed in the country of purchase or, as we say, in accordance with the so-called principle of origin. The transport of services is generally taxed in accordance with the principle of origin where the taxable person who performs the service is established, and only in specific cases according to the principle of the Member State of destination, that is, where the recipient of the service is established. At the same time, the law also introduces exceptions to the principles described in cases where it wants to achieve either administrative simplification or where it always wants to tax traffic in the Member State of destination because of the value of the purchase. In order to implement these principles in taxation, the applicant shall supplement the rules concerning the determination of the place of taxation and the date of the occurrence of the tax liability, the tax exemption and the way in which the right to deduct the value added tax is exercised. The provisions on administrative requirements for taxpayers, which will then have to report three months later to the State Administration on deliveries made to other Member States and keep records of sales and purchases in other Member States, are also supplemented. The second set of amendments introduced by the proposal for a law includes amendments related to the final harmonisation with other Directives in the field of value added tax, such as the addition of specific arrangements with regard to the transport of investment goods or the taxation of electronic services. These are mandatory schemes laid down by European rules, although we do not expect them to be of great importance in the initial stage of tax practice in Slovenia. The last set of amendments consists of amendments to the criminal provisions that we are aligning with the new law on offences. Finally, in view of the fact that only one amendment has been tabled to the draft law, which the Government does not object to, and taking into account the provision of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Government, as the proposer of the proposed Act, proposes to the National Assembly that the third reading of this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act be carried out at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Cyril Puck, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! That law was discussed at its 40th regular session and, following a rather broad and substantive debate, which opened the most in the amendment initiative of Article 36, this was the introduction of the term group taxation, the adoption of a series of amendments and thus improved the basic text of the law. The amendments are based on or are based on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and on the interested public, who participated substantively at the Committee's own meeting. This is mainly the case for individual solutions, or the initiatives presented by representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and the Society of Tax Advisors. The Committee thus amended or supplemented the following articles of the basic text of the law. Articles 2, 9, 10, 15, 20, 21, 27, 29, 31, 32, 33, 36, 39, 53, 54, the solutions of the New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party to Articles 52 and 52a, 56, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 66, 72 and 72a. In the light of the debate, the Committee did not support the amendments or initiatives which were tabled in Articles 2, 3, 11, 19, 26, 28, 39, 61 of the Act. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I propose that the assembly support the complementary proposal of the law, as well as the only amendment that has been tabled to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u5	Thank you very much. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Thank you very much, Mr. Pucko. The position of the New Slovenia Group will first be presented by Dr. Jožef Bernik. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u6	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State and guests from the Government, colleagues and colleagues! As we speak today about changes in the VAT law, we must say that changes as such are justified and also necessary, because the current VAT structure will no longer be sufficient once we enter the European Union. To this end, many articles and definitions in the current law had to be amended. In its opinion, our legislative and legal service had to propose a number of amendments and additions, although I can find that the financial ministry in this area is wrong on a regular basis, and in this case it would be slightly less stringent, as this is a very complicated text. There is no way that we can say by this law or amendment that the matter is in itself reasonable, which it is not. As has already been said, changes in this law are necessary, as the entry into the European Union by Slovenia will have to be covered by value added tax also on the consumption of goods and services, i.e. transport within the common European market. Goods and services are not taxed as long as they are in circulation among taxpayers. So far, control of this traffic has been through customs. This service will disappear after our entry into the European Union and, of course, the country has an interest in collecting taxes also from the newly created transport between Member States and also third countries, and, of course, the country also has an interest in creating or maintaining control over this traffic, thereby ensuring that taxes are collected which would otherwise be somewhat more critical in this case. I'm not going to comment on any other details of the marriage. However, I would like to touch on the government's prophecy, which states in its explanation that this system will result in tax evasion, which speaks of some 12 million tolls being dropped in 2004, but does not say how and why. On the other hand, they say that this system will be a little more friendly to taxpayers and it does not say how and what. We wanted to make some changes in our parliamentary group, but they were not accepted. In general, I can say that the question is whether the DURS in the current composition is sufficiently qualified or sufficiently qualified to see these changes as they would be necessary, as we see that this does not work in the current constitution and law. We will not support this law in New Slovenia because it will cause, we think, too much problems in implementation and there are also no guarantees that Durs will be able to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u8	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party Group, we expected that changes and additions to the value added tax law would be broader and, above all, would go beyond changes in the tax collection system to change the system or to change or relieve taxpayers. However, of course, the vision of the Slovenian National Party was obviously a utopia on the one hand, because the country is not prepared to give up its tax revenues and because the State or Government of the Republic of Slovenia has become accustomed to such large tax burdens of our country and thus the composition of public finances, which make up tax revenues over 90%. However, unfortunately, Slovenia has opted for such a government and for such a system of tax burdens. On the other hand, Slovenia has also decided to join the European Union and the logical consequence of this entry is also a change in the fiscal field. The fact is that in our country after a certain date, 1.4., we will no longer have physical fiscal control and therefore a different system of charging and charging tax burdens will be needed. According to the Slovenian National Party, the law itself, apart from its shortcomings, thus being too large and not going in the direction of decommissioning the taxpayers, brings certain ratings in our country. We still believe or see that the law could result in a simpler collection system, and the question is whether the authorities dealing with such matters are capable of making such an extensive change in such a short time. At the same time, there are, at least within our parliamentary group and in our assessment, two important issues: in particular the question of the consequences of the new law, namely liquidity change, and the possibility of a so-called liquidity trap, compared to the time gap between the current method of collection at national borders and the future proposed by the new law. On the other hand, I would also like to hear from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or its representatives that the amendment of the law, i.e. the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, will not bear, in addition to the administrative simplifications previously provided by the Secretary of State, other administrative costs which will not indirectly burden the taxpayers and thus not increase tax contributions, but through administrative costs, or otherwise, the costs of the various mechanisms that will allow the introduction of these new mechanisms, i.e. at the back of the borders. Whether we will give support to the law in the Slovenian National Party depends mainly on the question or dilemma that we have raised at this time. In any case, I think it makes sense for this speaker to point out the aspirations, at least our aspirations within the SNS Group of Members, that this time the country seriously consider changing the budgetary revenues, in particular as regards the structure of tax and non-tax revenues, which we estimate during this period represent too much of a share in this structure and hinder development on the one hand of the entrepreneurship initiative and, on the other hand, economic development in our country. I think it would be much more reasonable to approach a more correct and radical change in tax rates, in particular in terms of decommissioning, and then to approach the so-called new mechanism, which will allow, in the opinion of the Government, a simpler review of the developments of such financial flows and, on the other hand, the fear that has already been raised by the speaker before me, this is about the ability to ensure the performance of the tasks defined by this law and which will be accompanied by various sub-legislations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Leopold Groselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u10	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance or government, colleagues and colleagues! The bill's proponent in the accompanying text states that by becoming a member of the common European market, Slovenia is also causing significant consequences for the taxation of goods and services to be carried out or acquired by Slovenian taxpayers in the tax areas of other Member States of the European Union. This amendment therefore affects the fact that all exceptions and transitional periods imposed by Slovenia in the accession negotiations to the European Union cease to apply by applying these amendments. Therefore, in our legal order in the area of value added tax, the new law is intended to fully implement a directive amending or supplementing the Sixth Directive with any 1991 amendments or additions. The applicant also points out that, in order to definitively harmonise the Slovenian value added tax system with the European legal order, there is a need to adopt further harmonisations which were not made at the time of the previous adoption of the value added law or already adopted laws require other rules to comply with the basic law, such as the new offence law, concerning the criminal provisions which we adopted earlier this year. A proposal for a law amending and supplementing the value added tax law is based on a value added tax system in the form of value added tax, on the basis of which the actual consumption of goods and services is taxed, meaning that goods and services are not taxed in transport between taxable persons. The value added tax law is therefore based on taxation based on the principle of the place of destination on which the goods are taxed where they are used or used. Therefore, it is no longer possible to define the transport of goods between the Member States of the European Union as exports or imports of goods in the classical sense of the word. The proposed law has clearly tried to transpose the objectives and principles set out in the Sixth Directive into our national legislation, thereby achieving the effectiveness of the taxation system, so that our legal system in the field of taxation is based on the very fact that all Member States of the European Union apply the same rules and also implement them in a coordinated manner. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we note that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, on the basis of the opinion of the legislative service adopted, has drawn up and presented the material received by the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce, drafted and adopted amendments which we believe are also necessary for the final alignment of the Slovenian system of value added tax with the European acquis. That is why we will support the law in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, together with the amendments adopted by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. We will also support the amendment of the LDS Club to Article 39 of the bill. At the same time, in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, we point out that this is an important value added tax law that adapts the Slovenian tax system to European Union legislation. The real facts will be revealed by our entry on 1 May 2004, when the law will also have to be implemented in practice. The changes we accept are difficult and require a good organisational preparation of the Ministry of Finance and especially the tax services. As of 1 May 2004, we should not be allowed to have different issues raised by taxpayers, to which the tax administration will not be able to provide competent and immediate answers. Therefore, with the support of this law in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, we reiterate our warning to the Government that it is well prepared for the implementation of this law, both in order to protect the revenue of the budget and, in particular, to the satisfaction of the taxpayers, who make an important contribution to the revenue of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Pucko will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Government representatives, colleagues, colleagues! The Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia supports this law for the following reasons: Because it improves the law so far, because it solves issues for which practice has shown that it has not been best solved because it accurately and better enforces the subject matter of taxation, the persons who are obliged to pay value added tax define the taxable person, redefines the taxable transactions and the moment when the tax obligation arises. It also better defines the principle of non-discriminatory treatment of goods, the exemption of value added tax for import and export transactions, the enforcement of deductions of entry tax, the arrangements of taxable categories of taxable persons and the refund of value added tax on non-residents in Slovenia, with the repurchase of foreign natural persons, and lays down new criminal provisions which are consistent with the law on offences. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia considers that the addition of Article 36 in relation to the group capacity of the added value tax group to be a good solution, which is not contrary to Guideline 6, and also because, in this definition of the group account, it is not irrelevant what transactions a taxable person carries out. The capital, financial and business integration of persons in the group is important. In this way, the group taxpayer is determined by the law on taxation of profits or the income of legal persons. This enforcement does not formally reduce the number of taxpayers, but actually reduces the number of payment transactions, which means administrative simplification and cost reduction. We also believe that such a solution is important from the point of view of the taxpayers because it gives them the option, not the obligation of the group tax account, which means that the taxpayers can determine whether the group tax charge is more favourable for them or not. However, the tax administration should ensure that taxpayers also realize this possibility. For these reasons, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia also supports the Government's proposal that the third hearing be held at the same meeting, because only one amendment, which has been tabled to this law, also speaks enough or says that the law is very well prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Bozič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, good day to all! The views of the parliamentary group on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the value added tax law. Indeed, it is best for a person to write and read them, for the matter is such that the word can be lost or given a different meaning if it is spoken in its own right mind. According to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia programme, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is expected to address a number of tax and tax rules in 2003: the Tax Procedure Act, the Tax Service Act, the Income Act, the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons, the Amendment of the Value Added Tax Act, the Amendment of the Tax Law, the Property Tax Act and could also be listed. It seems strange to us that the Ministry of Finance has decided to turn the tax reform into a veil of secrecy. In addition to amendments to the Tax Act, value added and excise duties, none of the other legislative proposals are yet available to the public. Amendments to laws that have such an important impact on all citizens of Slovenia and on the business of all businesses operating in Slovenia certainly deserve the widest possible attention from all interested parties. This is not the case and is contrary to current practice. Maybe it's not too late to fix mistakes. The amendments to the value added tax concern coordination with the European system and the harmonisation of the rules on value added tax. The taxpayers and the Slovenian tax authorities will have to deal with the most demanding changes in value added tax. The performance of the taxation of goods between the European Union countries is based on the supplier’s determination of the customer’s status or the contracting authority of the goods in another Member State. Since customers or purchasers of goods are very different and cover all types of end-users, the mode of charging the tax depends on the status of the customer, which the supplier with the Slovenian identification number will have to identify with the help of the tax administration. Slovenia thus implements a transitional system for the taxation of goods and services in the European Union and not the final one, which, due to the numerous differences between Member States in the rules on value added tax, Member States were not able to introduce even in 1993 as envisaged. Such a system of European value added tax increases the costs and risks of taxpayers. As a result of this type of value added tax, 700 billion euro of untaxed transport in the European Union is not a year and 100 billion unspent taxes, a large part of which can also be hidden. Since European Union countries often face tax fraud, there are proposals that even security should be sought in return for the return of the entry tax. In this type of experience in the European Union, it is difficult to understand that in Slovenia we are not preparing ourselves more thoroughly for a demanding transition to a European system of value added tax accounting. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the draft law and the amendments tabled. However, the Ministry of Finance and the Government are expected to actively inform taxpayers of the new solutions due to the complexity and scope of the changes and also to provide direct assistance in calculating value added tax, including through the provision of written information and precise instructions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear government officials! Colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendments to the value added tax law are to harmonise our legislation with the European Community legislation required by our entry into the European Union on 1 May 2004. The changes are important and will require both the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and taxpayers to adapt significantly and definitively to the changes in our business on the European Community single market. Many participants in this market will also find it very difficult. The government's proposed solutions have been improved in the Finance Committee through the solutions of the Economic Chamber's co-workers, and we hope that in practice they will be least difficult to achieve. We therefore support proposals for amendments to the value added tax law. We also wanted to contribute to the quality of the law with the amendments to the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, together with New Slovenia, so we proposed amendments that would commit the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as much as possible to the timely and complete regulation of electronic commerce in the tax area. Electronic commerce is a necessity today. Our country's economy in this area is far ahead of us. Although the value added tax law governs the electronic accounting of taxes, electronic transactions between taxpayers and Durs, this will only be possible when the operation is regulated in detail by a regulation to be issued by the Minister of Finance. Unfortunately, the government did not set any deadline for the Minister of Finance to issue this sub-legislative act, which is why we proposed the deadlines with the amendments in the parliamentary group, while we wanted to extend the responsibility for this great task from the Minister of Finance to the whole government, which is, in addition to the Minister of Finance, also in the field of the Minister of Information Society and the Minister responsible for the development of the state administration. The government has rejected our amendments if all preparations are to run so that the deadlines in the law are not necessary, and we must respect the deadlines for the exchange of data on taxpayers and so on. We believe or hope that the Government will fulfil this part of the value added tax obligation responsibly to the European Community. But the regulation of all electronic commerce is a broader and more responsible task. The deadlines for determining the regime or for fulfilling the regulation of electronic commerce should, of course, not be met and avoided by the responsible government. It should be recalled that Dursa's tax records and the entire information system are so inadequacy that the Court of Auditors was unable to deliver an audit opinion at all. The government's responsibility for meeting the deadlines is important in the area of value added tax, especially since the single market will already represent less VAT in the state budget due to the nature of this tax in the open common market. According to the government itself, this approximately 12 billion Slovenian tolars are expected to be lower at a time when the government is less and less able to provide aggregate budgetary or overall fiscal discipline in the country. The deadlines in the law would also be necessary due to the timeliness of the preparation of taxpayers for electronic commerce. Due to the weakness of our tax administration and supervision in the parliamentary group in the current situation, we cannot support the proposal for group tax between individual companies. With the current extremely unsatisfactory information support of Durs and his human resources weaknesses, I would like to point out to this speaker that [[The highest quality personnel, unfortunately, leave the tax administration]] would, of course, be an additional option to avoid taxation, and we will not support this area's collective taxation in the parliamentary group. The whole law on amendments and additions to the value added tax law will be supported in the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Bogomir Vnučec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we have repeatedly, with each amendment to this value added tax law, warned the proposer to listen to a number of proposals, both from our parliamentary group, other Members, as well as NGOs and the professional public in this area, to reduce the value added tax rate or even to abolish certain products used by non-profit and voluntary organisations for firefighting equipment and products that have the greatest impact on the material situation of young families. These are mainly children’s food, clothing, and footwear. However, the Government has not taken these proposals into account. It refers here to European Union legislation. However, the fact is that the Republic of Slovenia, unfortunately, has not negotiated the possibility of exceptions, which is unacceptable in the fact that some other countries are allowed to do so. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has also come up with many proposals for improved legislation by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. Some of them took the board for their own and were accepted. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the amendment proposed by the Chamber of Commerce on the possibility of deducting the value added tax for the purchase of vehicles for the transport of schoolchildren and workers. We support the correction of this article from the amendments tabled in our parliamentary group. In the four years since the value added tax law was introduced, this is already the third amendment to the law. Any change brings a type of novelty and changes already avoided habits and procedures. Therefore, the value added tax debtors, those who are not yet, and other citizens as consumers are often confused, as it is difficult to adjust the news in the area you do not know immediately. In particular, if changes are constantly taking place and for the first time something is being introduced, it stops, changes the deadlines and procedures, and it also irritates the business of economic operators. This time, however, is necessary in order to adapt our legal order to the European one. That is why we will support the law in our parliamentary group. Nevertheless, we hope that the decisions are deliberate and that they will not need to be rectified again within a few months. However, the fact remains that it is necessary to create conditions for the economy first in order to create additional value, and then to ensure that the country collects them consistently. Unfortunately, however, the government is not as up-to-date as it is in raising taxes and other contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Dear Members, honourable Members! We have heard presentations on the positions of the groups. As the draft law is in line with the Rules of Procedure in the second reading, we can only discuss the article and the amendment tabled in the second reading. And we can see that only one amendment has been tabled to the amended bill. It is contained in the review of the amendments of 24.09.2003. So I am putting to the debate Article 39 and the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia to this article. And I'm asking, who wants a word? Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Thank you for saying so, Madam President. Although we will support the amendment to Article 39, our position on the whole amendment of the law has already been explained by Dr Jožet Bernik. We regret that the amendments we have drafted have not been adopted so far and, of course, are not available here today. I would like to remind my fellow Members and colleagues that, as usual, we are saving in pieces the sad image of our tax system, at one time when this national assembly knows well and has a report in its working bodies on the actual situation found by the Court of Auditors in the tax administration. That is, in a dictionary or a text, usually in a very deplorable text of the Court of Auditors, that the data are inexorable and incomplete and therefore cannot give any opinion at all. We regret that all the amendments and our proposals have not been adopted. And this, as always, is based on some promises that will save everything, including by means of submarital acts. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Do you even know what it's about to set a specific date for this? Since we are already used in this national council to enact laws, then the executive branch of the sub-laws does not accept at all. You can go and review how many sub-laws in the Public Procurement Act have actually been implemented by the executive branch. The voids exist, but the situation is all very sad. You are well aware that this is not the first time that I have raised the issue of our VAT; in the Committee on Budgetary Control, in this National Assembly, in well-meaning private discussions with responsible officials in this area, all speaking is in vain. Since we have finally come to such a situation that after three years, when it first came to the day that, in fact, the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia does not have a comprehensive integrated information system, today the situation is exactly the same as it was. Now, on behalf of Europe, we are making such amendments to the law, which do not guarantee us in the National Assembly that there will actually be a final solution. That the disorder is obvious, I would like to remind you of the statements made by the Director of the Tax Administration a few months ago in the Slovenian media that this loss, which is supposed to be in the amount of what the State will collect in the value added tax, should be about 50 billion. Today the government reports to us that it will be 12 billion. We're used to this kind of difference. As, among other things, behind this is what will be pianist propaganda in the coming months, of course, the VAT drop. As a result of the fallout, we have to look for a way to get into Europe. Changes outside, in the outside environment, are to blame. Of course, our self - proclaimed professional government never has any responsibility. On one occasion, however, I would just like to know whether the Slovenian government estimates that the 12 billion tolar decline will be, as it says here, whether they keep the words of the Director, who, in public a few months ago, has declared that the 50 billion is expected to fall. It would be interesting if this national assembly knew, on what basis, such an assessment. I don't think anyone will blame me if he claims today, and I will also say that neither one nor the other sum is the basis of any analysis, but rather the usual reporting by the executive authority of this national assembly. In the coming weeks, we will have the opportunity in the working bodies of the National Assembly to review this audit report of the Court of Auditors in the tax administration. We hope that we will be able to make progress in this area, as well as a report requested by both working bodies, both the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, within 30 days. However, dear colleagues and colleagues, I am sure that this National Assembly is too permissive to the executive branch. In the words of the representative of liberal democracy today, we have heard that the law is very well prepared. Yes, of course it is prepared, because at last those things that have not yet been resolved will be resolved in some rules of procedure, for which we do not have as much money as we do in this national assembly, this great coalition, or the government itself, to bind these things in the same way that common sense requires. I won't be surprised if we find out in six months that the rules of procedure are still in place, that the VAT dropout is, that there were some technical, professional problems, that there is not yet, and we will wait and wait, and there will be no real solutions, and there will be no real solutions. It is also happening with a famous tax reform. There is not yet a single document, a serious document and the government's position on this matter in this National Assembly. The only thing we have is some statements in the public, officials or state secretaries in this area of the Ministry of Finance, a real proposal to study it in time and analyse it and then to draw up views such as one parliament must have on tax issues, of course. We will certainly do it quickly and, of course, throw the blame quickly at Brussels and the environment. I would only like to conclude with this that such an approach by a government to which we have already been trained, which is how these things work in our country, is totally unacceptable to a serious country that would like to be a modern democracy in this wider European circle in which we enter. It's sad, but it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Dear Dr. Bajuk, I must remind you of the discussions that will follow. In your debate, you have violated the rules of procedure, namely that we should only discuss an amendment which is clear to propose extending the possibility of applying deductions to combined vehicles providing services that fall within the scope of public line and special line transport activities. This is a framework that all Members and Members of Parliament can discuss in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This is what the Rules of Procedure set out. I therefore ask that there be no general debate in this part. To the word of Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! This law is, of course, very sensitive and complicated as such. Therefore, practically every article of this law is very important and in each article it is possible to extend the debate a little bit, what Dr. Bayuk has also done and I do not agree that he has abused anything. Many amendments to this law indicate how important this law is, and of course, many mistakes can also occur in practice, which can also be fatal for the debtors. I would like to support this amendment and I think it makes sense, of course, that this tax rate is also introduced for combined vehicles, because they sometimes serve and must be used to reduce transport costs. I'd like to draw attention to a problem that seems very large to me. I wonder whether our tax administration has the necessary expertise. It is clear that in certain procedures, the tax administration itself shall calculate the profit created after such a decision has been issued. This decision, of course, does not hold back the enforcement of this decision and many of the stories resulting therefrom. As Members of Parliament in the field, many times we listen to Marsikje, the decision issued for a taxable person is also a failure, and what seems to me to be the biggest problem in all this is that the relevant courts of appeals of taxpayers do not resolve after two, three years and so on. We know that in such timescales large interest is collected and practically debts are then, in the end, many times not even reduced, but increased; but before that, I have said what the final result is - that a craftsman, an entrepreneur ceases to be an activity and becomes actually a social problem under the burden of the State. In doing so, I would like to point out that some compare this tax system with those that are worse than in some, if I may say, exotic countries. I know we're not in the general debate. It is a pity that such a significant change cannot be discussed more widely. However, I would like to point out that in the Republic of Slovenia, as in some countries or in most countries of the European Union, for example Germany, Austria and elsewhere, financial courts with top and specialised tax lawyers should be able to carry out all these processes in such a way that they are not at the expense of the taxpayers. Unfortunately, this is not the case with us right now, and therefore, as I mentioned earlier, the problems in this area have been affected by the large and many times by certain taxpayers, not by their own fault. If possible, I would ask that, after the government has had its few minutes, whether it is thinking that in Slovenia in this area, now that we are talking about change due to accession to the European Union, we should also consider these situations and the solutions that the European Union already knows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, Mr Sok, you too have exceeded the topic to be discussed, and I also remind you that you have violated the rules of procedure. Mr Sok, in accordance with Article 122, ten signatures could propose a general discussion of the bill and could be discussed. Since you have not taken advantage of this business option, today we have a proposal for a second reading law and an amendment and an article to be discussed. So I ask you to respect the rules of procedure and stick to its terms. Mr. Grandchild has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. As I have already said in the introduction on behalf of the parliamentary group, we support or support any change that leads to a reduction in burdens in this way, it is said, including a reduction in taxes, because it is precisely with such a change as we have seen when the law is adopted with some good purpose, such as subsidising school transport, that the purpose of the law is to be substantially changed by the regulation. As far as the working party is concerned, however, it is already known that the cost of work is too high for us, so it is also a relief if it helps to reduce it, very welcome. In general, regardless of the warnings you have given, I will also allow myself to say that, in addition to the legislation, its implementation should be regulated. Because the fact is that there is chaos in our tax administration, this has already been found by the Court of Auditors, and that there is also a need to democratize this supervisory authority in addition to the legislation, because there is no democracy there at this point, but totalitarianism, which is wrong if there are not two segments besides the baton, is still the root. And that's what Europe has. It is therefore necessary, in addition to strict supervision and punishment, to establish an agreement on what the European tax institutions have here. Then, however, those who do not respect the matter are severely sanctioned; unfortunately, only sanctions are imposed on us at the expense of the State. For, according to the tax inspector who said, "you will make the most of it if you pay, even now, if this is unjustifiable, because the interest is such that no bank can pay better interest than the state for unjustifiable taxes". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I'm afraid I must remind you, Mr. Grandchild. Dear Members and Members. We have adopted the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly by a large majority in this National Assembly, and it is only right that we have determined it until it is changed. Article 134, first paragraph, states: "In the second reading of the proposal, the National Assembly shall hold a debate on the individual articles to which amendments have been tabled and the votes on individual amendments." We have an amendment. You have accepted amendments within the framework of the work of your mother's working body. And before us we have a complementary proposal for a law, with amendments adopted and only on these articles have qualified applicants been able to table an amendment. We have one amendment before us, and paragraph 39 is open. And the scope of our possible debate is Article 39 and the amendment to this Article. That is how we have been doing all the time since we adopted the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and I do not intend to politicise it, but I am simply reminding you that this is the case and I pray that we stick to it. Anybody else want some? There are no procedural proposals. Does anyone else want to, are we in the stage of discussion on Article 39 and the amendment to Article 39? Mr. Sok, please allow me to hear a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. It is a pity that we have to force the Members in this way. However, I am protesting the holding of this meeting in this manner. I have been talking about the amendment and I have said that I support this amendment, which states that combined vehicles can also be used on these transports and that such and such a tax rate is applied. And then I went into my debate on whether the tax administration has sufficient expertise. Therefore, given that this matter will require the adoption of another regulation - if this regulation does not exist, the tax administration will, of course, assess itself when it comes to a combined vehicle and so on. There can then be different interpretations in practice. I was talking about how these different interpretations can also lead to executions and errors and damages.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u27	Please, a procedural proposal to create it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u28	I've been talking about this, and I disagree with your assessment that I've overstepped my business terms. I would ask you if you would listen to me and in the future you would not interrupt me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Very carefully, Mr. Sok, I listened to you. You were talking about decisions issued by the tax administration. This has nothing to do with Article 39 and the amendment. During the meeting, the Rules of Procedure shall be interpreted by the President. If you have objections and you feel that this is wrong, ask the business commission to interpret my conduct. I'm asking, does anyone else want to discuss Article 39 and the amendment? Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The amendment to Article 39 is, of course, one of the hundreds of amendments, if not, I don't know about a hundred amendments, which I think was on the committee, so it might be a mistake to understand the president of the committee and the representative of the Liberal Democracy, who says he is the only amendment. Unfortunately, the government has again drawn up a bad law, which had to be corrected from practice and, of course, a whole bunch of amendments, which were, thank God, adopted. Therefore, I may once again tell the government that before putting legislation into Parliament, it should hold coordination meetings with stakeholders, in particular those who know this best from practice, and then, of course, come to Parliament with such a text. It's not like we're repairing it on the working body to get to one amendment. It's a good thing we did it on the homework. With regard to Article 39 and the amendment to it, the following. Of course, support is worth the intention of applying the deduction for this transport. That is, if the vehicle is used to transport schoolchildren and workers, if I understand correctly that the matter will be very difficult to monitor in a balanced manner. It seems to me that we are going on an adventure that we once proposed, but it was precisely because of the principles of neutrality of value added tax that was rejected when we wanted to forgive fire vehicles and so on. I think that the intention is positive, but this is a dangerous trip to non-systematicity and, I would say, some principles that apply to value added tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I ask the representative of the government, does he want a word under the amendment article to this article? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I conclude, then, the debate. We will vote on the amendment today at 6 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting and, if it is adopted, we will also vote on the proposal by the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to hold the third reading of the bill at the same meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We will continue at 11.25 a.m. when we move on to the 4th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the bill supplementing the excise law. Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Dr. Bajuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u32	I would only ask a representative of the government, Madam Secretary of State, if she can answer: Do they insist in their assessment that the loss will be 12 billion? Do they hold the Director's estimates that it is 50 billion?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, we have concluded the debate under this item on the agenda. I called a representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The assessment of the failure is given in the explanation of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u34	Your Honor! Let's get back to work. We're moving to four. Period of the day - Second defensively proposed bill on the supplementation of the excise law. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed France Pukšič. With regard to this law, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. The proposer also announced that he did not wish to give the floor to a further explanation of the bill and that the views of the groups in question should be presented. First of all, Mr Sašo Peče has the floor to present to us the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u35	Once again, welcome, honored present! So excise duties represent part of the fiscal system, which we estimate in the Slovenian National Party is one of the main factors for unstable and critical public finances. This law, i.e. the Law on excise duties or additions to the Law on excise duties proposed in the procedure already in 2000, speaks and has in its content a requirement for refinement or to facilitate certain parts of sports activities, i.e. through some form of State aid, in the form of exemption from certain duties to the State. It is true - according to the Slovenian National Party - that the law was in the period of investment - in that period we even signed the proposal of the Slovenian National Party - meaningful and that so long before entry into the EU was urgently needed in the excise or fiscal system of the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, it is necessary to point out the criticism to the composer of the daily regulation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who reacted quite late with his opinion and attitude towards the law, which resulted in the fact that we are meeting with the law only now. In view of the fact - which we may or may not like - that Slovenia has decided to transfer the work of sovereign rights or all sovereign rights to the institutions of the European Union, as well as to legislation in this area, that is to say after the application of foreign legislation into the framework of our legal order, it should be recognised that the proposal for a law supplementing the excise law, as determined by the institutions which later dealt with the law: that is, the legislative and legal service, the Committee on Finance and, last but not least, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, would be contrary to the standards and standards established in the European Union. In the Slovenian National Party, we are very sorry that the first-signed Mr Pukšič, who has taken over the law by the original first signatory, Mr Luci, did not present new views and new wishes on whether or not the law should still be in the procedure and how its real, valid possibility of its implementation would be welcome in the system. This would, on the one hand, make it possible to conflict with the EU Directive and, on the other hand, continue to promote certain sports activities, including incidentality. In the Slovenian National Party, before deciding to support this law, we will in any way wish to know the position of that parliamentary group which has tabled a proposal for a law. However, it would be sincerely desirable, at least on our part, for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to tell us where it can replace the deficit or where it can encourage this part of sports activity in our country, which we have tried to help it in such a way as to make elastic excises for their activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Cyril Pucko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia supports the decision of the parent labour body to reject this bill by the National Assembly. In particular, because Slovenia has committed itself in its negotiations with the EU to taking into account the principles of the establishment of the national excise system, which were the basic principles of the excise regime and as such already taken into account in the preparation of the excise law in 1998. Free excise duty payments for individual excise goods are an integral part of these solutions. Thus, the use of mineral oils and gas for which excise duty is not paid is defined in Article 55 of the Excise Act. On the basis of that determination, excise duty shall not be paid from mineral oils and gas used as propellant fuel in air transport, unless the aircraft is used for private purposes. For the latter, the second paragraph of the same Article shall be considered to be the use of an aircraft which cannot be defined as a gainful activity or in cases where hay is used for the transport of passengers or goods or when it is not the provision of transport services or where the aircraft is used by national authorities. That provision excludes the use of mineral oils in air transport for the purpose of education and sport from excise exemptions. However, it is also defined in Article 8 of the EU Directive and is established in the practice of the Member States of the European Union. For this reason, the Liberal Democracy will support the above-mentioned proposal of the parent labour body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party - does not wish to be presented by Mr Bozič. A representative of the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members also announced that no one wanted a word. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party will be presented to us by Mr Peter Levič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the Young Slovenia Party, we agree with the applicants that aviation activities in Slovenia are slowly developing. However, according to our estimates, its development is not strongly limited by the high cost of aviation gasoline, but mainly by the lack of incentives from the country to establish the appropriate and necessary air infrastructure. Article 55, paragraph 1, of the Law on excise duties provides that excise duty shall not be paid from mineral oils and gas used as propellant fuel in air transport, unless the aircraft is used for private purposes. In the Young Slovenia Party, we agree that sports aviation should be aligned with passenger transport. However, towards the introduction of excise duties on kerosene also in the latter. The environmental burden of air passenger transport is not negligible. Therefore, it is unacceptable to give in to airlines which also generate large profits. Since the adoption of the accompanying text also constitutes a derogation from the regulation laid down in Directive 92/81 of the European Union, which would result in a disagreement with the provision of the European non-retroactivity on submission, we will not undermine the proposal for a law in the Party of Youth Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u40	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will vote today at 6 p.m. on the proposal for a decision by the working body. I interrupt this agenda item and let you know that we'll be there at 11:00. 50 hours passed to the consideration of item 5 of the agenda, this is the second reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on gambling. Until then, I'm off the job and we start at 11:00. 50 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u41	Your Honor! Let's get back to work. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Second Commentary Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Games for Happiness. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the Government the floor to further explain the bill. Mag. Sybil Svilan, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared and submitted to you a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on gambling. The reason for the adoption of this law is in particular the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the lack of certain substantive criteria, thereby repealing Article 74 of the Act on Gambling. In fact, in the design of circular tourist areas where these criteria were not clear. Another reason for the adoption of this law is that in December 2000 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a negotiating base relating to area 4, this is the free movement of capital. In this regard, restrictions on the free movement of capital arising from legislation, which also regulate the field of gambling, had to be lifted or should be removed no later than the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has assessed that in this proposal the law can create some of the most urgent changes and additions that are important for action in this area. In particular, it is a matter of clarifying the discretion of the government in decision-making in this area, further limiting the number of concessions to arrange special gambling or the number of events of classical gambling, equity investments of casino concessionaires and extending the deadline for the establishment of supervisory innovation systems, obtaining certificates for gaming devices and licences for employees in this area. Accordingly, the main solutions proposed by the Government are: With regard to the decision of the Constitutional Court or to the surrounding tourist areas, the criteria and modalities for the establishment of the surrounding tourist areas laid down by the Minister responsible for tourism shall be laid down. With regard to the removal of restrictions on the free movement of capital, the prohibition on the participation of persons from the Member States of the European Economic Area in the capital of the organiser or concessionaire shall be lifted and shall enter into force only from the date of full membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union. For other foreign persons, the prohibition of capital participation shall be maintained. As a result, the ownership structure of legal entities that arrange special gambling in casinos is also newly established. It is also important that the withdrawal or acquisition of shares by the organiser or concessionaires is only possible with the prior consent of the Ministry of Finance. With regard to free-thinking, it is expressly stated that the Government and the Minister responsible for finance, when granting concessions and other matters under this Act, shall decide on a discretionary basis taking into account the proposed criteria laid down by law. An important novelty is that there is a certain limit or a certain limit to the number of concessions and organizers: no more than two organisers who permanently organise classical gambling, no more than 15 concessions for casinos and 45 concessions for gaming salons. With regard to the equity investments mentioned earlier, the rules on the equity investments of concessionaires are compared to what has now been regulated in the Act on the Promotion of Tourism, making sense in this law for gambling. The fundamental principle is that concessional investment may have the capital of legal persons whose activities and revenues are mainly in the area of hospitality and tourism and in the areas of development and production and sustainable technology. However, for investments in capital of all other legal entities and investments in capital of foreign legal persons, the concessionaire must obtain prior consent from the Ministry of Finance, of course if the investment exceeds 5% of the basic capital of the concessionaire or if the total value of all investments exceeds 20% of the concessionaire's capital. With regard to the extension of the concessionaire period, the deadlines for the establishment of supervisory investment systems are extended until 30.10.2004, the acquisition of certificates for gaming devices and the acquisition of licences for employees. The latter is very important because of the large number of employees in this area and of course of machines and of course only one institution that gives these licences. The Government considers that the solutions and the proposed changes are appropriate. It therefore proposes that the proposed law be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Cyril Puck, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues! The Committee considered that proposal at its meeting on 10 September, paying particular attention to the Committee's proposals for amendments, which we have prepared or have prepared, and which we have also adopted, after discussion, some or most of them on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The Committee did not adopt those amendments or amendments proposed by the proposer, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, further explained or argued that they were not necessary. Particular attention or maximum time in the debate was given to amending or supplementing Article 8. The amendment of Members Sam Bevk and Davorin Terchón, which concerns the completion of Article 74, paragraph 1, of the current law, does not take into account in the calculation of the municipality’s own revenue referred to in Article 25, paragraph 1, of the Law on the financing of municipalities. After quite a heated debate and conflicting opinions on this amendment, the amendment committee supported it. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, we have also supplemented or amended Articles 3, 5, 6, 8, 12, 13, 15, 17 and 21 of the Law. I propose, fellow Members, that we support such a complementary proposal of the law. In addition, the Committee adopted an additional decision asking the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to clarify any changes or additional explanations to the negotiating bases of the Republic of Slovenia for area four, the free movement of capital relating to the regulation of gambling areas if these changes occurred in the negotiating process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u45	Thank you very much. It is now followed by a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups on the proposal for a law. First of all, under Valentin Pohorec presented the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Velentin Pohorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Our parliamentary group has examined the law and has also participated in the meeting of the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee itself, where we have given some attention to the changes that have been made. By not agreeing with some amendments that were on the committee itself. Above all, it is an amendment with which we have intervened, as a committee, in the second law, the law on the financing of local communities. We do not think it is appropriate to interfere with many other laws in the law on the financing of local communities, since we are reducing its space, narrowing its functionality, making problems in the state budget or in drawing up a budget. At the same time, when we demand and want everything to be included in the budget, we take some of these funds away from it. At the same time, we want a new law on the financing of municipalities to be drawn up as soon as possible. Otherwise, we will also support the proposed amendments to the law, as well as the amendments supported by the government, at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Mr. Pache. The position of the New Slovenia Group is next. He'll be represented by a mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u48	Good afternoon. Dear colleagues, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and others present! The reason for the amendment of the law is therefore the Constitutional Court’s decision, which challenged the method of determining the tourist-increased areas and thus the right to concessions. However, this opportunity to amend the law has also been used by the Government to make other changes, including capital transfers, changes in capital compositions, trainees or gambling organisations and the like. The proposal therefore newises the criteria for determining the surrounding tourist areas. However, this change also eliminates the issue. But there will be problems. The surrounding tourist areas continue and, in this regard, also to benefit from the concessions provided for in this Title. In other changes, however, it is most controversial that the government has decided to allow foreigners to become co-owners of two major gambling organisations. This is the change that should not be made in Slovenia. Indeed, the adaptation of classical gambling as a specific type of service is not an area governed by European Union legislation aimed at protecting the single common market. While the government will explain that Slovenia is committed to establishing the free movement of capital, this is not the case in this case. Classic gambling, we know what genes they have. They have been established mainly because of the activities of humanitarian organisations. Of course, the activity of organizing classical gambling is also important. However, if the main objective was to obtain concession fees and profit from dividends for the development of humanitarian, charitable and sports organisations, then this is defined as a public interest. In line with the practice of other European countries, I would keep this to myself. I'm sure you don't have to invite strangers here. This is not about capital investment in certain service or production activities, but simply about the adjustment of gambling. Thus, such a cap on participation and capital flows are also available in other European countries, although it is not entirely necessary that dividends and concession fees are directly intended for those most needed in our society. For this reason, we ask the Government why such negotiating venues were in place in 2000. In the enormous distribution of casinos in Slovenia, propagandists tell us that milk and honey should be drained. Activity is really needed. However, there is a need for prudence in all of this, as is the case in other countries with traditions. I would like to see comparisons of the number of casinos, gaming salons, gaming machines to the number of residents in neighbouring countries. You'll see what that's like. The countries are still very careful in directing the development of individual casinos. It is also necessary to touch on the Minister's discretion, which is unusual. Discretion itself of the substantive fulfilment of the substantive conditions for determining the transfer of ownership shares in such a way that the Minister has a key word means a great potential for corruption. On the other hand, the principle of State silence does not mean that consent is given, but in the legal profession it is considered that silence means rejection. That is why such a doctrine is not appropriate. Parliament does not want to be familiar with the strategy for the development of Slovenian tourism. That's what the ruling coalition decided. In Novi Slovenija we have proposed that we get to know this.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Tiny, your time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u50	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u51	The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented to us by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u52	The statistics of today's meeting of the National Assembly, which is mostly the same as the statistics of the other days in which our meeting takes place, indicate that Slovenian legislation cannot be commended with the label in a credible manner. So far, we've discussed three laws. At the beginning of the title, all three laws had the title of the Law on Amendments and Supplements. Today, we will meet with four other laws that will bear the same mark. I want to say that it is difficult for the recipients of the laws to monitor themselves to do the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or to do this Parliament, which is essentially the same. We do not know, unfortunately, in this country write any long-term law, a law for which customers, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, will be able to bind and work in natural or legal persons. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also notes in the introduction that the reason for writing this law stems from two elements: Firstly, the decision of the Constitutional Court ordering the correction of a certain confusion. The confusion we have caused in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or in the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, he speaks for a reason - the second reason for the adoption of this law is the adopted negotiating base of the Republic of Slovenia for the area of free movement of capital. In doing so, it is important to stress - in part, I will refer to the speaker before me, to the Rapporteur with code 4 and 4 respectively, the presentation of the regulation in other legal systems and the adaptability of the proposed legal regime within Europe, which specifically states in the first sentence: "The legal order of gambling is left to national legislation and is not subject to general uniformity within the European Union." It follows that, in the Slovenian National Party, we assess that it would make sense to define such legislation in a particular way in order to demonstrate synergies, which on the one hand, on the one hand in the development of gambling, which is of course the most important and most important or original importance in the development of the local community and the country. Unfortunately or I apologize, the first reason why the government has drawn up the reason is the Constitutional Court's decision, is that it follows this objective. But there is no way we can talk about pursuing another goal. This is the accepted negotiating basis. In the Slovenian National Party, we would also criticise the legislator or the executive branch of the Authority, because, according to our assessment, there is an attempt to supplement the law through the back door with some essential elements for concessional issues, for which we have already pointed out several times in the Slovenian National Party that one of the basic unregulated areas in our country will be a concession in this area or in the final stage also a concession in the field of gambling. The fact is that we would need a roof law that binds all other partial decisions to what we are facing today into a single category that would later take place or show up in positive revenue flows from concession activities. Unfortunately, this is not arranged in our country. Maybe that's why. Because the fact is that concessions, which are on the one hand dealt with by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, on the other hand, as the other exclusive branch of the local community, bring exceptional income to concessionaires. But the question is, what do the candidates have from these activities and what do the local communities or the state have from all of this? On the other hand, we are convinced that the issue of ownership relations and investment relations which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also trying to bring to the last door is also a matter of partial resolution within the framework of the Act. We estimate that they are not sufficiently specified in the direction that would be reflected in those effects that I spoke about earlier, i.e. in the positive effects that would arise within our country, particularly in the promotion of individual regions. If the aim of the law is to enable - as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has pointed out several times in the context of its presentations - whether it will be at the home work bodies or other meetings - that the structure of the funds should change within the local communities, so it should be an addition to the budgets of local communities and not more of the constituent work, this is an element to be welcomed under this law. We agree with that in the National Party. We would also like to address to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia an appeal addressed to us by various civil forums of society that said that 10% of the funds from this type of gainful activity are intended for the development of higher education and for the scholarship of students and students. We believe that through gambling and gambling revenues, our country could also take care of another area and not just for the entertainment of foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Samo Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on gambling together with the amendments adopted by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Gambling is an important source of the state budget. Humanitarian and sports organisations, as well as local communities, are financed from concession fees. In the past, in particular, casinos have had a bad reputation because of various affairs. Today we can say that this period is behind us. By regulating the situation and relations between the country and the organizers of special gambling we have entered a new period of development of gambling in Slovenia. In 1997, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the whole strategy for the development of gambling in Slovenia as a key strategic development document. Modern gaming product is an integral part of a comprehensive Slovenian tourist offer, and it is an activity that contributes to a quarter of the calculated tourism traffic in our country. There are two main reasons for amending the law: the harmonisation of our legislation with the legal order of the European Union and the decision of the Constitutional Court, which repealed Article 74 last year. With regard to the first reason, the general prohibition on the participation of foreign persons in the capital of companies which may obtain a concession from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to arrange gambling in our country is lifted. The second reason for amending the law is related to the issue of rounded tourist areas for special gambling purposes. The repealed paragraph does not contain criteria or substantive criteria for the establishment of circular tourist areas, which is also under the responsibility of the government or the competent ministry responsible for the development of tourism after this amendment. An amendment was adopted on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which we proposed with our fellow Member, Davorin Terčon. We have proposed that in Article 8 of the amendment of the gambling law, the scope of concession fees should be regulated in a way that does not constitute a basis for calculating the financial compensation of municipalities and that the amount of the concession fee should in fact increase their budget. With this money, municipalities would actually finance the tasks assigned to them by the gambling law, which is to finance the regulation of the people of a more environmentally friendly environment and tourist infrastructure. As an additional criterion for determining the surrounding tourist area, we have also classified criteria that include local communities, which have on their territory a large number of natural, cultural, technical and monuments and other activities that are interesting for tourist presentation, such as museum and gallery activities and summer cultural events and so on. It is also a sensible solution to increase from 2% to 0.2% the share of the concession fee as the income of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations and the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations. The law also further regulates the criteria for granting concessions. This is important because both the basic law and the proposal we are considering today do not determine the number of organizers who can arrange classical gambling, or the number of concessionaires to arrange special gambling in casinos and gaming salons. The business interest is very large. The danger was that, due to the loose criteria, the award of concessions would be avoided. Let me do it again. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the amendment of the gambling law. We will also take into account the Government's views on the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Davorin Terčon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! The government and predecessors have already presented the reasons for amending and supplementing the law on gambling. Although the proposer is drafting a new law that is supposed to regulate the field of gambling in a comprehensive manner, we believe that it is right that some of the necessary solutions are included in the bill, amendments and additions to the law on gambling, which we are currently considering. This includes the determination of the concession fee in the calculation of the municipality’s own income, which is otherwise subject to the regulation of other laws. The Law on the Financing of Communities, whose changes in the near future cannot be expected, is also bound by the reform of local self-government. We believe that this should take into account in particular the Act on the Promotion of Tourism, which sets out in Article 10 the sources of financing for the implementation of tourism activities, including the budget resources of the Republic of Slovenia for concessional duties for the adaptation of specific gambling activities, which are intended for local communities in the surrounding tourist area, and are used for the management of residents, visitors and tourists of a more friendly environment and for tourist infrastructure. In this regard, the amendment to Article 8 of the aforementioned draft law, which we also support in the LDS Group of Members, was adopted on the home working body. According to the Slovenian Tourism Strategy 2002/2006, gambling is the most developed Slovenian tourist product. In Slovenia we currently have 12 casinos operated by five shareholders and strong over 30 gaming salons. Every year he visits Slovenian casinos around 2 million 500,000 guests, creating about 170 million Euros of transport. 96% of gambling consumption comes from foreign markets. It follows that the Slovenian gaming industry is an extremely export activity. It is most connected to the Italian market and will develop its gaming offer in the coming years. The most important gambling offer is concentrated mainly on the border band along the border with Italy, Austria, along transport routes, while other tourist offers are subordinated. However, the Slovenian gaming industry has recently lost some of its competitive advantages due to the progressive fiscal burden of the gaming industry and other legal restrictions and the increased role of foreign competition. We therefore believe that all attention should be paid to this issue. We expect that this issue will be solved by the already foretold law that the government is preparing. As has already been said, the changes that are the subject of today's debate in the LDS Group are supported together with the amendments adopted by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Bozič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Hello, government representatives! Colleagues and colleagues! In our party, we will support the draft amendments that are ahead of us on gambling. However, I would like to stress some things that are not discussed enough or that we walk around them like cats around hot porridge. In the last 50 years, our towns in Slovenia have changed a lot, the environment and also production. Here, in this hall, I have talked several times about the changes that have been made and about the income that people make with their work. In doing so, we can think of growing the flowers that we talked about recently, vegetables. We've been talking about gambling for seven years. Lucky games are here. Whoever doesn't take them is just awkward. In Slovenia, these gambling has led to some time of income for those who have not been legally defined the most to the right. Then we passed a law on gambling and also a law on concessions. The concessions provided an opportunity for the local community, in which the organiser of gambling is part of the concession money and the remaining half the money to the surrounding local communities. Today, when I hear you say that the Ministry of Finance is reduced by a billion 400 million if such a law is passed, we can say in the same breath: it is not true that the local communities have been deprived of this money for five years, because under this law this money has been allocated to them. Only by unwisely adopting an amendment on the financing of local communities did we take it away from poor local communities and leave it to the rich. For we have said, a congregation that lacks its own money, which is not covered with its own income, does not receive this money from concessions. Thus it has not been received by many local communities in the last five years. We draw attention to some things that are now in marriage [[Hopefully, when it's new, it won't be like this anymore.]] . Article 1 discusses the saturation of the offer of gambling in the country or individual local communities and the balance with the offer of neighbouring countries. I'd like to know which one of us hopes to say, "Let's stop the port of Koper because Trieste is strong enough." Is he a hero to say that? Another time. In the number of gambling players, we're too hard and too hard. I hope this changes. But we're alerting you to something else. In the last paragraph of Article 8 adopted, the following shall be said: 'The local communities which are included in each of the surrounding tourist areas shall agree on the amount of the share of the concession fee received by each local community under a specific contract.' I think it will only have to be arranged by a minister responsible for tourism or finance, because the local communities will be able to fight for a long time, how much they belong to and what does not belong to them. We believe that it is right to accept this change, because we will solve the problem that has arisen against the European Union. What she wants, which has been imposed on the National Assembly by the Constitutional Court. Also, those poor local communities that have been deprived for five years of concession fees or gambling benefits will be satisfied and will only once say that we have done something good. New things, gambling, new programs in the industry in the post-industrial society are here and we can't stop them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice greeting to the representatives of the government and once again to you, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament. The fundamental reason for amending the law should be the constitutional or constitutional court decision, in which the Constitutional Court decided that in the current regulation, there is too much discretion on the part of the Minister of Economy in determining the tourist areas and thus on the right to benefit from concessions. The amendments, in particular in the complementary proposal, are indeed complementary to the criteria for certain circular tourist areas. However, the problems related to this issue are not likely to be resolved. The following other changes can be considered more important for our social development, and I would particularly like to draw attention to them. I ask myself: Did the European Community really ask us to allow foreigners to co-owners of the two only classical gambling events, namely, the Lotteries of Slovenia and the Sports Lottery? If in which activity Slovenia does not need foreign capital, it is certainly you. Is that what this is all about? The Government even stated in its explanation that in December 2000 it had accepted the addition of additional explanations to the negotiating points of the Republic of Slovenia, in which it committed itself, inter alia, to lifting restrictions on the free movement of capital in the development of gambling. Why and why did she do this? That's the question. I see no reason, especially because some foreign countries have these solutions and in fact have strong restrictions on foreign capital. This was recorded by the government itself in the explanation for this law. Our opposition - we hope - has at least contributed to the fact that the complementary proposal sets out criteria for the action of the Minister of Finance's consent to future foreign owners on their suitability for co-owners of the organisations to arrange classical gambling. In doing so, the solution to the fact that agreement will be given already if the Minister of Finance does not reject the application within 30 days, does not promise a new special, greater responsibility of the Minister of Finance in this area. That is why we think that this should be written more thoroughly, but not just a silence to answer the consensus. It also seems important to us that it is legally inappropriate to propose a solution in Article 1 of the amended proposal for a law that complements the existing arrangements for action and to extend concessions for the adaptation of gambling, in particular in the definition of connected persons that are not actually defined. This term of connected persons - unfortunately, it is not defined - we point to this several times and in other laws that the term different laws define differently and we believe that this provision in our laws is necessary once and for all. Simply stating that connected persons under this law are persons who are considered to be related laws related to persons under other laws is not appropriate according to our assessment. This is also recognised by the legislative and legal service. With all the amendments proposed, I would only point out a very positive amendment, which was supported by the Committee on Finance, which is an amendment by my fellow Members, Mr Bevk and Terčon, that concession fees belonging to municipalities are no longer counted in the calculation of the revenue of the municipalities. Because the fact is that to all municipalities, which are or are the majority of those receiving the State budget adjustment, this concession fee was virtually unknown and did not serve the purpose of applying, creating a more environmentally friendly environment and improving infrastructure. Because of this, the congregations obtained less compensation. So the jackel was the same size. Did these congregations receive a concession fee or not? Therefore, I believe that the supplement to municipal budgets within the meaning of this concession fee would be more [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to support a valuable proposal and we will support it in the SDS Group. [[...]] And thus the provisions of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Young Slovenia Party will be presented by Mr Igor Štemberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we support the proposed amendments and additions to the gambling law, which are in line with the adopted negotiating base of the Republic of Slovenia for area 4, free movement of capital, and with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, by which the second paragraph of Article 74 of the current law was repealed. As very important and necessary additions to the gambling law, we assess the criteria for establishing rounded tourist areas for the need to set up special gambling in casinos that were not in the old law. The criteria now allow for the acquisition of a share of concession activities by all neighbouring municipalities bordering the municipality in the area where the activity is carried out. Concessionary, which we think is fair. However, we do know that certain surrounding tourist areas are being linked. Non-neighbourly municipalities, which should also be taken into account in the allocation of concessional funds. We welcome the provisions which redefine that all municipalities belonging to the concession fee will receive this in addition to the amount of the eligible expenditure, which means that the concession fee will be added to its eligible expenditure set. Now, virtually, concessions have been granted only to those municipalities that, with their revenues, exceed the amount of appropriate consumption or other complementary municipalities have placed in an unequal position. In practice, this means that, for example, at the north-coastal end, the concession fee was paid only by the champagne and the novogoric municipality. However, all other eligible municipalities have not seen this important contribution to the development of the tourist infrastructure. As a result, this means an increase in the development gap between richer and other municipalities, which is certainly not in line with the concepts of coherent regional development. This is particularly reflected in the purpose of applying a gambling concession in the area of the development of tourist infrastructure, which Slovenia cannot and must not afford as a developing tourist destination. As unacceptable, however, we consider the Government's excuses for changes and additions within the framework of which the deadline by which casino concessionaires should establish a supervisory information system and include all gaming devices. However, employees of those concessionaires shall be granted a one-year extension of the licence to work in the development of specific gambling activities. To also extend the deadline for obtaining a certificate for gaming devices to be obtained by casino concessionaires and organisers who have a concession to arrange classical gambling. At the competent ministry, these procedures could have been carried out much earlier. They were known for fixing the law. That is why this is just another example of the delay and failure of the government, thereby prolonging the unregulated situation on a very slippery but profitable area of gambling for another year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We have heard the position of the members of the groups on the proposal for a law. We are now moving on to the debate in the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the amendment review of 29.09.2003. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the two amendments tabled in Article 8 by the New Slovenia Group of Members. We also have the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which does not support the amendment under order number 1 and the amendment under order number two supports. Therefore, I am putting Article 8 and the two amendments of the New Slovenia Group to this Article into discussion. Who wants a word? Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Well, the intention of New Slovenia is and the intention of this amendment by Nova Slovenije is to provide slightly greater resources for the development of important activities in our Republic of Slovenia. In recent times, however, we have the opportunity to see that resources for the development of infrastructure in sports and similar activities, which are also in rural areas, are being reduced so that they do not achieve what is necessary. It is also in the field of humanitarian and charitable activities. Our country is becoming increasingly market-driven and therefore this amendment is more than welcome. The amount of the concession fee allocated for these matters does not undermine the concept of competition, competition between preparers or organisers of gambling. Nor does it hold that the remaining recipients would be deprived of the same sum, these are local communities and the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. So formal. Otherwise, you can write it down. But the fact is that these funds, which are allocated in a larger amount, which would be based on the amendment, would also go to Slovenia. Do not think that what goes to the municipal cash register is really just this way in the countryside or in Slovenia. This is also because societies are all over Slovenia, because infrastructure is different. This is certainly taken into account in the distribution of money by the Foundation. So that no one would have the feeling that we are seeking to cut money to local communities. We're all about direct users. So this amendment is completely well-intentioned and useful. However, it is the level of funds, as you say, at a level of 444 million tolars, which - given that it is the beneficiaries under Article 74 - I do not know how large the amount is if we want Slovenia to be equally developed. With regard to the second amendment to Article 8, the aim is to provide these resources from concession fees not only to central municipalities that have a casino but also not only to neighbouring municipalities, but to the entire area. We know that the distribution of municipalities is such that they do not contact each other directly, and then those who are most in need of these concession fees would be deprived of it. In this opinion, however, the Government finds that you have also decided to support this amendment. I am giving the initiative to the other Members to support the first amendment to Article 8 that we have drafted in Novi Slovenija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? [[Members' groups have been notified a great deal of time]] ? [[No, no, ……]] So I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the amendments today at 6 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby interrupt this item of the agenda and inform you that we will proceed to the consideration of agenda item 6, which is the second reading of the draft law on general product safety at 2.05 p.m. Thank you very much for your cooperation so far. So we continue at 2.05 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u66	We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE GENERAL PRODUCT SAFETY LAW. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. You have five minutes at your disposal, Mr. Janez Trček, Secretary of State in the Ministry of the Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, the House of Respect! The proposed law will not only replace the current General Product Safety Act of 1999 but will upgrade it with provisions that will improve the implementation of the requirements of the European Directive governing this area. Thus, customs supervision and the establishment of an advisory committee is better defined. This will bring the area governed by the law in line with the acquis of the European Community. The proposed law will ensure that only safe products are placed on the market. The law lays down the criteria for determining product safety; a hierarchy of documents or other criteria to determine product safety is established. The law summarises the content of the EEC Directive on products of misleading appearance. Thus, the law complies with the requirements of this Directive and products of misleading appearance [[For example, a sliding radish]] prohibited, their production, imports and even exports are also prohibited. It is important to define the relationship between the proposed law on general product safety and the consumer protection law. The latter is, as its title also suggests, a system law in the field of consumer protection. The General Product Safety Act is an example of special legislation in relation to the system law, which regulates in detail the important aspect of consumer protection, namely the technical protection of products intended for use by consumers. The law also defines the relationship to other product safety regulations. The law is intended to provide so-called residual protection where there is no specific harmonised legislation regulating the safety of individual products. It should be noted, however, that in some cases the existence of specific rules does not preclude the application of the law in question. The proposed law also defines more broadly the term 'product', which is found in the word 'including products supplied or used in the provision of services'. This interferes with the scope of products whose supply is mainly linked to the service sector. One of the most important novelties of this proposal is the duty to cooperate. Both manufacturers and distributors shall cooperate with the competent authorities in activities designed to prevent danger and shall inform them when they find out that the products supplied are safe. The cooperative duty is based on the knowledge that the poor market situation with regard to dangerous products is largely due to the insufficient awareness of economic operators of their obligations under the general product safety legislation. The law also regulates the procedure for the transmission of information on dangerous products to the European Union. Administrative control of product safety has been established. The compulsory operation of the competent national authorities is already defined as co-subsidiary at the legal level. This is an extreme tool for improving the situation on the market. Competent inspections shall only apply to measures and penalties if it turns out that manufacturers or distributors are not willing to voluntarily implement the obligations imposed by this law. Infringement of the law constitutes offences with a prescribed application for an offender. The law will apply from the date of accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union. Nevertheless, Slovenia has already become involved in the work of the European Committee on Product General Safety. All documents considered in this Committee shall be made available to our representatives. Active cooperation is already expected from all accession countries. It is therefore very important that all interested persons in Slovenia obtain all the necessary information immediately. The Ministry of Economy has thus already set up a working group composed of representatives of the country, economy and consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask Mr Blaž Kavčič, Vice-President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u69	Respectable. At its 41st meeting, on 11 September, the Committee of the National Economic Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the draft law on general product safety submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and acceptance on a regular basis by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the amendments of the Group of Members, the proposals for amendments to the Association for Trade, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the comments of the Association of Consumers of Slovenia. The Legislative and Legal Service has made specific comments to each article, which have been duly taken into account in the amendments of the Group of Members. The Committee later adopted this amendment in the context of the debate and the vote on the individual articles of the bill. The main reason for the adoption of this law is the harmonisation of the Slovenian acquis with the new directive of the European Community, as well as the upgrading of the applicable law with provisions that will improve the way the Directive is implemented. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133, a proposal for a law was prepared at the meeting of the Committee in the light of the amendments adopted. The amended bill, which is an integral part of the report, also includes all the amendments adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First of all, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Nova Slovenija has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In New Slovenia, we will support the bill. This is because we estimate that it is high time to build on the safety of products, so that they are safe and healthy to use consumers, inconvenient and consistent with the European Community's efforts to harmonise this area. At the same time, we would like to point out that no provision of the law, however, may yet sound as a precautionary measure, will have no effect in practice unless two are provided; the regulations and the effectiveness of the competent inspections and customs controls. With regard to sub-legislative acts, I would like to point out the following: the product is considered safe if it complies with the health safety requirements set out in the specific non-harmonised rules. The proposal also applies to the product of safety claims if the product is safe according to Slovenian national standards. These are prepared on the basis of European standards and published in the Official Journal of the European Union. The national standards used in Slovenia must be published by the Slovenian Minister responsible for the economy. In the absence of those rules or standards for a particular product, different criteria for determining the safety of the product shall apply to the provisions of Article 7 of the proposal. Among other things, the criteria for legitimate consumer safety expectations. Just how and who, we wonder, will determine what these expectations are. Of course, such arrangements seem to be lacking. In the field of product safety, there shall be no grey foxes or approximate criteria. In the field of product safety, which consumers face, clarity is essential and very specific criteria for their implementation. The criteria must be laid down for all products faced by consumers. In order to avoid the need to apply Article 7 of this proposal, it will certainly be necessary to adopt another provision. Above all, it is essential that the Ministry of the Economy issue sub-laws. Why do we keep this in mind? Since we are used to it, it is already common in the National Assembly that when the National Assembly adopts the law and imposes enforcement authorities to implement and prepare these sub-legislative acts, there is actually no such act. If anyone has any doubts, I ask you to review the Public Procurement Act, Article 134, which has ordered the enforcement authorities to do this work and to prepare at least seven sub-laws, which have not yet been fully enforced, since 1999. Therefore, imposing the duties of the executive and not having the assurance that it will also actually carry out this is only a fraud of this national assembly. We hope that next time we will pay much more attention to these things and request certain dates from the executive branch to do so in due time. Another important issue on which it depends that we will indeed achieve the noble objective of this law is the effective functioning of the market and health inspectorate. The need for urgent action arises especially when the full compliance of standards is not yet fully secured. The government has to take care of it - it has to take care of it! - that supervisory authorities will be trained to implement the law. The area of product safety is difficult as it includes many regulations and new approaches that we are now adopting on the basis of European Union resolutions. However, quality enforcement of the law will only be capable of trained inspectors and customs officers. We would also draw attention to the inspection of the cooperation of manufacturers and distributors with inspections and their obligation to inform them of the risk of the product they placed on the market. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Let me round it up. That's very important, too. Again, I refer to the Public Procurement Act, which has ordered the Public Procurement Office to ensure that all bureaucrats and officials are educated at local and other levels in order to understand and be able to implement this law. They haven't done it yet. We hope that now that this is not recorded in the law, perhaps only the executive authorities will understand that this is a demand for common sense and not just some opposition voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u73	Your Honor! The fact is that this is one of those laws that pursue a positive goal. It pursues the objective of safe products and thus security for all users of such products. In the Slovenian National Party, we will, of course, support the proposal for a law on general product safety. However, the reason for our support is different, such as the reason for the drafting of legislation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that it is mainly the harmonisation of Slovenian legislation with the EU. A similar reason, however, has also been given in its explanatory statement by the labour force, the Committee on the Economy, namely compliance with the EU acquis. In the Slovenian National Party, the main reason for supporting this law is only one: it is to ensure security for Slovenian customers. Therefore, Slovenian citizens and citizens will be provided with such products that will have no negative consequences through their use within a short or long period of time. Given that the law pursues positive goals and that we wish in the Slovenian National Party, as probably all Members and Members, to bring the law to life in its entirety, we are merely expressing fear - and I will not be as pessimistic as the speaker before me - for a time after the adoption of the sub-laws. We fear that the law could, in particular, constitute some kind of administrative obstacle to the introduction of new products, in order to increase costs after unnecessary, and that this could hinder economic and other growth in our country. This, however, can be avoided - and this is for the presentation of the Slovenian National Party. So the appeal to the Ministry to give special attention, within the framework of the sub-laws, to the implementation of these acts through demands and to determine that before the preparation of individual sub-laws, which we have heard a little while ago, they do not perform, nor do they live, and therefore do not live, to do a simulation on such a matter before it is put into consideration or offered to citizens of our country and citizens for admission. The fact is that there is still time for the law to enter into force on the date of the entry into force of the Republic of Slovenia. We estimate that the Ministry of Field could make such regulations under the law that would fully implement the roof law. On the other hand, which would prevent various administrative costs and administrative obstacles, which would in any case constitute a deterioration of the competitive position of our customers, namely Slovenes and Slovenes. We will support the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The position of Liberal Democracy will be presented by Mr Blaž Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u75	Respectable. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we see this law as a law designed to ensure that, within the framework of the constitutionally guaranteed freedom of economic initiative, exclusively safe products are put on the market. This law concerns the further legal elaboration of constitutional provisions on restrictive operation, the protection of public benefit and the establishment of conditions and ways to carry out economic activity in order to ensure an adequate living environment. While this law is indeed about taking over the content of the new directive on general product safety. However, here we must not forget that this creates a legal framework for ensuring the general safety of products. Also those that are not subject to specific rules. In Slovenia, we did not have a regulation to explicitly and generally oblige manufacturers and distributors to place exclusively safe products on the market. By taking this directive into account, we get the basic rules of conduct into the Slovenian legal system, which should allow for the successful resolution of the multiple conflicting principles of free movement of goods, open borders and the protection of consumers and other users. In accordance with the new Directive, the law strengthens the fundamental principle of ensuring the general safety of products so that exclusively safe products can be placed on the market within the framework of the constitutionally provided free economic initiative. It is important that the provisions of this Act are intended to provide so-called residential protection when for a particular product. There's no special legislation. Therefore, in order for a product to be considered safe, it must not constitute, by definition, more than the minimum risks associated with its application. It is appropriate and right for us to believe that the law will enter into force on the date of the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union. That is why we will also support him in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u77	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The proposal for a law is essentially one of the types of technical regulations that the Republic of Slovenia must harmonise with the European Community. In this case, in particular, align our legal order with the new directive of the European Community on the general safety of products, stressing that, within the framework of a free economic initiative provided constitutionally by each of the current and future Member States of the Union, only safe and healthy products can be placed on the market. Therefore, the draft law, supported by the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, follows the need to establish a hierarchy of acts or criteria that are the basis for determining product safety and thus to meet the established criteria and requirements for the strong subsidiarity of actors in this hierarchy. This is a postulate that is increasingly present in the European Union and on which we, too, will have to rely increasingly in all social, mutual negotiations and regulations. The bill obliges manufacturers and distributors to directly increase the knowledge that they are marketing a dangerous product, as well as to eliminate and prevent the risk of a consumer health product. To this end, a Consultative Committee at the Ministry of the Economy is set up for the proposal for a law, from which in our Group we expect it to work cooperatively with the exchange of views from all stakeholders on product safety. We are also thinking of small enterprises in particular, where the economic situation will have a significant impact on the law. We support the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group and will also support it in the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Branko Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you. Your Honor! Our Slovenian Democratic Party Group is aware that this is an important law. So it's an exchange of old law, but it's an important document. Maybe more important than everyone knows today. Otherwise, the law is quite modest in scope. However, it is also very complex because, in addition to the provisions it contains, it travels to a whole range of other parallel rules, rules that must be taken into account in the implementation of this law. In such a way that it will then be comprehensive in addressing this area, there is the general safety of products, which, after our assessment, is quite a few efforts to bring this law to its full life. Of course, the government is primarily responsible for the implementation of this law. If there are any problems with the implementation of this law, especially when we approach or enter the European Community. If our economy, our industry will not be ready enough for that moment, then it is certainly the responsibility of the government to do everything at this time to train all economic operators and all those who are implementing any products to comply with all these documents and, above all, the rules of the European Community. Indeed, as set out here also in this law, all this information and verification will also need to be sent to the Commission of the European Community. It can happen that once the European Community is also open to all products, this flood of these products will be significantly higher so that the movement of these products will also be significantly higher on our part. Not only those already exporting and products which are certainly compatible with EU rules. There may also be some major irregularities or comments on such products. I'd like to mention that. We estimate that, although this law is good in certain provisions, it is also extremely, according to our assessment, inappropriate, because, as is always the case in our system, the official oligarchy interprets this law as being most appropriate and will serve as a whole set of other laws for disciplining the disobedient. That could happen. As a result, some will be significantly more affected than those who, of course, are obedient. This is happening today and this will also happen in the future. That's our area. In the end, I'll just mention possible criminal provisions if you look at them. High penalties are at stake. We do know, however, that the sentences of these penalties are very different. Well, there's a lot of fines going on around here. It says 5,000 to 10 million. For example, even when this law will, of course, apply. So, first of all, there are lower penalties under the old law. However, the penalties imposed for those disciplined may be significantly lower, even below 500,000 tolars and for those who are not disciplined, and for those who are not disciplined may be significantly higher. In short, inequality before marriage can also be greatly abused in this law. Why did I mention these crimes? In fact, I can see for myself that I've been dealing with these things lately, that there are a lot of infringements against legal persons who are getting older. This is a matter of millions of dollars, but these amounts, or these offenses, are then substantially reduced or punished far below what is prescribed as a threatened penalty from a certain height to a certain height. We are ordinary citizens when we accidentally commit an offence punishable at the highest level of the penalty at risk and there is no relief for us. In short, the official oligarchy also works in this area. These abuses are supposed to be as low as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u80	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is also not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday, 2 October following the end of the agenda. I hereby end this agenda item and thank the representatives of the government for their cooperation. Thank you very much. Although we have only two minutes until the next point, we must wait in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u81	We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, it's a second defensive proposal for a law on the geometric center of Slovenia. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed French Rokavac. I give the text to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government. In 1981, the geometric centre of Slovenia was established in the village of Slivna near Vach. From this day forward it becomes the geometric center of Slovenia, hereinafter GEOSS. An increasingly visited point in the country, the Republic of Slovenia. GEOSS has several meanings, such a symbolic, historical, scientific, cultural, and could also be listed. On behalf of the applicant, I believe that the GEOSS, on the basis of all the reasons I have already mentioned, can be classified as an inheritance which the Republic of Slovenia must protect. GEOSS contributes to the cultural development of Slovenia and to the dissemination of the awareness of citizens and citizens in Slovenia. The Constitution states in Article 73 that both the State and the local communities are concerned about the preservation of natural and cultural heritage. To this end, the National Assembly adopted two system laws; the Act on Nature Conservation, as well as the Act on the Conservation of Cultural Heritage, under the Act on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, under the Act on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. After a thorough examination of both laws and with the help of the competent ministries, we have found that, because of our specific characteristics, we cannot systematically occupy one or the other. We are therefore proposing that the GEOSS is of the utmost importance to the Republic of Slovenia from all of these aspects. We believe that it is necessary to give him such a system-wide legislative framework, to protect him by means of a specific law and thus to recognize his exceptional importance. In addition, we believe that GEOSS could also become an open-air site for important state events. In doing so, let me just mention traditional events, both at the cultural holiday on February 8th, events when the Slovenian flag was hanged on April 7th. You could still list it. In fact, the geometric centre next to the central monument, the geometric points, also contains other features. That is how we live and rule on our land, which represents the decision of all Slovenian mayors in 1989 that we want to live and rule on our land. Both coat of arms of the Republic of Slovenia, the former and the present. One as a symbol of history, the other as the current coat of arms. The monument to patriotism, which was set up this year and also revealed in May, in fact illustrates efforts for the independence of Slovenia. The entire geometric centre is also surrounded by Lipa as a symbol of Slovenia and a symbol of the rooster that symbolizes fire protection. In view of all of this, we believe that appropriate legal arrangements are needed to create an appropriate legal framework and also a basis for strengthening the importance of the geometric centre of the Republic of Slovenia in order to achieve more than 20 years of loving work in this area. This is highlighted in particular by the fact that the majority of European countries do not have any specificities due to the irregular forms of geometric centres. This is also a special feature because Slovenia can determine its geometric centre point and has it by adopting the law. Thus, we would have a unique case in Europe, which would further strengthen our national essence in Slovenia's integration into the European Union. I think that the geometric center of Slovenia as the centre of our country should be seen primarily from the point of view that this is an important symbolic point that illustrates the roots of us Slovenians in this space, which illustrates our centuries more for the existence and development of less than in this space, less than the central point of the coordinates of our demarcation, although it would be right to say the following. According to an irregular character such as Slovenia, only the centre, not the centre, can be determined. The centre is simplified so that people can actually understand it. I don't think the government's opinion is in place. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] since GEOSS has already exceeded the national cultural space framework. [[...]] Before I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank all colleagues of the co-proposals who come from all the groups of Members in this National Assembly. I believe that a consensual decision after the importance and planning of the future development of GEOSS is still important in the integration of Slovenia into the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. The report of the Committee will be presented by the chairman of the Committee, Mr Branko Janc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! At its 43rd meeting, on 10.9th, the Committee of the National Council on Infrastructure and the Environment held a second reading of the proposal for a law on the geometric centre of Slovenia, which was forwarded by a group of Members to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with the first-signed France Rokavac on 16.6.2003. The representatives of GEOSS, the Geodetic Centre of Slovenia, also participated in the meeting of the Committee in addition to representatives of the Law and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The proposed law was given a written opinion, with the exception of the legislative service of the National Assembly, by GEOSS on 1.7.2003, the Tourist Association of Slovenia on 1.7. and by Jože Ašič on 5.9.2003. The drafter introduced the importance of the GEOSS and at the same time proposed a proposal for amendments to be accepted by the Committee as his own and followed by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly pointed out that, given the applicant's statement that the proposed law intended to protect Slovenian cultural heritage and the content of the proposed law alone, it would suggest that the possibility of protecting this area under one of the two system laws should be reconsidered. The service also makes specific comments to each article of the bill, namely Articles 1 to 10. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the draft law. In doing so, he expressed the view that it would be useful to indicate in the draft law only the area on which the GEOSS mark is located in view of the irreconcilability of the state border against the Republic of Croatia, since the proposal for a law legislates GEOSS as a symbolic centre of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, it should be recalled that the Committee has not yet had the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which we have received at the table today, on this item of the agenda. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 of the Law and thereby amended all the provisions of the Law in full. Finally, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. New Slovenia first, Mr. Aloise Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u86	Mr President, Government representative, fellow Member and fellow Members! In New Slovenia, we will support the proposed law. In the beginning, we had some concerns, especially - as has already been said here - because of an undefined border. However, when the applicant later withdrew from the aim of establishing this geometric point with all the coordinates, but proposed that a particular area with a given number be declared as a geometric centre in this law, this doubt was also dropped. We are therefore convinced that it would be good for the functioning of this society to adopt this law for a legal reason and thus help this society to regulate or to do what this society is already doing with regard to the geometric centre of Slovenia. Above all, it is important that this society, once adopted by law, can also obtain certain funds from the State. We think that's also the most important thing this law brings to the area of the geometric center. But we are very surprised at the position and what the Slovenian government delivered to us today. Although Mr Rokavec had already tabled a bill last July, the government's position came only today. The government is of the opinion that there is no need to specifically legislate, namely that the law as such is unnecessary. In this regard, the government lists four reasons. For the first reason, the government states that the narrower geographical area that the law wants to regulate as an object or as a special and distinct property of an area of cultural heritage is unnecessary. So this is a very, I would say, worrying position of the Slovenian government. Even more worrying is the position stated by the government at point 2, where it says that, from the point of view of Slovenian national territory and Slovenian cultural space, the regulation of the geometric centre may raise concerns about the cultural integration of this area at a time when the entry into the European Union will make Western and Northern borders even more permeable. In our party we wonder whether, in this view, Slovenian language and Slovenian cultural identity can also raise concerns about cultural integration in the wider European space. We do not know on what basis the government has reached such a conclusion, but on the other hand, the European Union reminds Slovenia that it is not enough to protect its Slovenian language and Slovenian cultural identity. The other two reasons why the government rejects this proposal are also unacceptable. The government at the third point notes that the geometric centre in its environment is operating today without explicit legal basis. Plus, it says he's doing well. That's the truth. However, if we add some legal framework to this exercise and, above all, ensure that this society is able to participate in certain financial resources of the Slovenian State, then the management of the geometric centre will be even more successful in our belief. For another fourth reason, the government notes that most countries in Europe do not have such geometric centres and not specific legal arrangements. I'd call it "thank God." We have one special feature in Slovenia, and this is another reason why we decided in the New Slovenia Group that we would support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece, Slovenian National Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u88	Your Honors are here! We are all aware that this is not a matter of law of life. However, according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, this is a law of Slovenian importance. This is a law that will allow, especially in these moments, adaptation, entry and entry into the EU, some power and representation of the Slovenia. The fact is that Slovenia has the opportunity to calculate its central point called GEOSS. If they do not have these options of another country, whether within the European Union or elsewhere in the world, this is not a problem of the national assembly. If a national assembly in the form of a law can determine such a point, it should also do so. Especially given that the law has financial implications. But these financial consequences are minimal. It's been a long time since the National Assembly last met a law that had as little financial implications as this law has. Given that the debate within the Infrastructure Committee was, in my opinion, very good and has led to a law that no longer opposes the Legal Affairs Secretariat. And given that we have solved the problem or the coordination on the committee that would determine the centre of Slovenia, or the partial number, and that we have later reached a solution to the partial number, such as solutions that will not have long-term negative consequences due to possible conflicts with the Republic of Croatia. We have been explained by the professional services that various Croatian interests in the Slovenian territory cannot affect GEOSS Slovenia, they cannot influence this point, which will still remain on this partial number. In the Slovenian National Party, despite the conviction of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is truly sorry that it came only today or recently, we have only further confirmed our position on support for this law. For the government - although Mr Sok has already mentioned these reasons before me, I think that this is an important enough exercise - the government, so let us repeat again, for the first time, allow the government's argument that some European countries do not have it, we have already resolved. They can't have it because of their geographical order. Viewed mirror Slovenia can have this. So if they can't have it, why can't we have it? In this, the Slovenian National Party sees no relevance. Another argument by the government that it opposes the proposed law is that one day, tomorrow, the European Union will no longer have borders. That doesn't seem to be the real reason either. Slovenia was, Slovenia is today and Slovenia will be. But he's gonna have to take care of this national council. By setting a point, we are almost costing us nothing, a simple law, we can determine one segment of the one that will enable Slovenia even more in the future. Of course, there is still much to be done in this area. The fact is that the Slovenian government and the Slovenian Parliament are working poorly on the identity of Slovenia within Europe and within the world. Therefore, I personally and the Slovenian National Party do not see why we would oppose this law. In the Slovenian National Party, we will give support to the bill and sincerely hope that, unlike the government, this national assembly will find so much wisdom that it will put its pebble in the mosaic of the preservation of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potč has the word, the United List. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u90	Mr. Vice President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a law on the geometric centre of Slovenia. We estimate that in this case it is a matter of circumstances and efforts that allow and deserve recognition also by regulating the particular importance of the geometric centre from a state and historical point of view that is important to our people. A small part of the budget for the activities programmes in the GEOSS area would also reflect the major efforts made by GEOSS members and villagers Váč and Slivna in the last 20 years to implement this project. The rejection of the law, although proposed by the government, might cause more damage than its acceptance despite legitimate formal concerns. That is why we will also support it in the United List of Social Democrats. In doing so, I should like to stress and acknowledge that my personal positive attitude towards the adoption of the law is also linked to the relationship of GEOSS to the efforts to win Slovenia's independence thirteen, fourteen years ago. On 14 September 1989, Assembly presidents, mayors of the vast majority of Slovene municipalities, together with the leadership of the then Republic Assembly and other important officials of the Republic of Slovenia met at the Lower Slivna. This was the time before the end of the preparations for the adoption of the amendments to the Slovenian Constitution - the amendments that abolished the political monopoly and opened the way for multilateral parliamentary democracy, which enabled the first democratic multiparty elections to be held and which established the Slovenian statehood, created legal bases for the gradual takeover of the functions of the federation, established the constitutional right to self-determination and thus allowed the first but important steps in the independence of Slovenia. Without their acceptance, the historical path of democratic change and the independence of Slovenia would certainly be different. I'm saying it's even harder and more risky. The importance of the amendments was well-aware of the advocates of Unitarism in the former Yugoslavia. This is why they organised a wide range of political activity and a hunt against Slovenia. There were charges, threats. There was also a call to arms at the rally. In such situations, the meeting of mayors, representatives of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia was an opportunity for us, the world, and above all our opponents in Yugoslavia, to demonstrate the coherence, unity and firm determination to consolidate our identity and statehood. This is symbolically summed up in the inscription on the inscription that stands today, which says, "We live and rule on our earth." The events on the Lower Slivna, marked by this memorial mark, were therefore full of confidence, pride and courage, which was particularly expressed in the following acts of independence and in the defence of the new state against the aggression of the Yugoslav People's Army. These are also the reasons why it is right to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of Liberal Democracy will be presented by Mr Jože Ašič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u92	Thank you. A nice welcome when presenting the opinion of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, which will be slightly different from the opinions presented so far. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are aware that it was the intention of the applicants to legitimize the central area or point of the Republic of Slovenia, called GEOSS, and to provide the conditions for preserving only this. The reason is also that since 1981, when the point of the geometric centre was measured, this area has been taken over as the central territory of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and has been established in the lives of citizens and citizens of our country and, as such, already represents a tradition. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are not against staying this area and meaning what has already taken root in these 20s and several years. However, in the LDS Group, we have also considered the opinions, all the opinions that have been written so far, both to the original text of the law, and to the text that has been replaced and dealt with today. The original text was replaced mainly because of comments made by the legal services of our national assembly. It was replaced in those parts where the legislative and legal service pointed out the legal shortcomings of the law, not the substantive ones. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia drew attention to the contents of the Act with its first opinion of June this year. We forgot about it a little bit, but we had it, and it was also between us, Members. Then the marriage was withdrawn. That's why we didn't treat him in particular. However, it is evident that, from a systemic legal point of view, the bill interferes with the repeatedly mentioned law on nature conservation and in the law on the protection of natural and cultural heritage. This area is governed by such a protection regime or elements only where the protection of the area under the law on the conservation of the nature of the property of certain cultural heritage under the law on the protection of cultural heritage is covered. From the point of view of the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, the proposal does not address the heritage of special or exceptional importance, i.e. a monument of State importance, since it is not about the achievements of creativity or the key whether the evidence of a particular period of historical history has indeed been preserved. In doing so, it is necessary to draw particular attention to the provisions of Article 5 of the Act, which stipulates that the local community can also protect an area specifically designed to protect it by its regulation. Even the local community has not done so in the past. Even though she had a legal basis, which is probably a shame. In the light of the provisions of the Nature Conservation Act, it is also noted that the proposal for a law does not provide any justification for the need for a specific treatment of the area and the properties presented. It is also evident that in some countries of the European Union the measured points, the country's central points from different points of view, from different criteria, but in no European Union country, as well as outside the European Union - this is also identified - no law of this kind has been adopted. Some of you have already read from the opinion of the government, the last one, 11.9, that - and we believe so - represents a geometric centre that exists as it does today, a solid enough basis for it to develop further. If the rules of the local community were to be better justified and legalised, there is no reason not to provide adequate financial resources in support of the continued operation of the GEOSS in the existing funding system, both by state authorities and by other bodies. Several times it has been mentioned that they are one of the main problems of this law - and this is also pointed out by the State Assembly's Law Service - of the non-existent state borders or of the irregular state borders with the Republic of Croatia. In doing so and to conclude, let me just remind you that we really tried on the infrastructure committee. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] harmonise and reconcile it to the extent possible. [[...]] However, it is part of the State territory of the Republic of Slovenia, both the land part and the maritime part. If the GEOSS area has already been accurately calculated, then this is calculated only for the terrestrial part. The sea part is becoming completely open and this is one of the fundamental reasons why we will not support the law in the parliamentary group. However, we would like to find a model in the local community, together with the relevant ministries, to ensure that the wishes and demands of the proposers are implemented as best possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Rokavec, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u94	Thanks again for saying that. I'll be shorter because I said the same thing when I introduced the law. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposal for a law on the geometric center of Slovenia. We believe that GEOSS has great national importance for Slovenia as well as for the country of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, in addition to a unique geometrically difficult point in the past, there have been very important decisions to date, which have actually had a clear message on the unity of Slovenia and Slovenians on the path of independence and the creation of a independent State of the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, there is a traditional event in this area every year at the cultural festival for 17 years. As already mentioned on behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, on 14 September 1989, the representatives of the Republic Assembly and also the mayors were gathered. Under the slogan "live and rule on our own land", they agreed to support in the Republic Assembly constitutional amendments that were disputed over the then federal federation. A so-called presentation of the newly elected President of the State to the Slovenian people was also established at GEOSS. This year, with the participation of the veterans of the war on Slovenia, a memorial mark was placed on Slovenia's red tape of the independence war for Slovenia. This is a central monument to the fallen in the fight for Slovenian independence. On 7 April each year, on the day of the flag in the organization of Heraldik, a solemn exaggeration of the Slovenian flag is organized. There are still many events - I could list them - that actually give GEOSS a special meaning. In short, in the Group of Members, we believe that it is necessary to give the GEOSS an appropriate legal basis, to adequately protect this area and to create conditions for effective further development, ideas and the GEOSS project itself, both of national, historical, symbolic, scientific and cultural importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Our parliamentary group has always supported the initiative to give a special status to the geometric centre of Slovenia and to regulate and protect the GEOSS area by special law. Although we are constantly aware that it is possible to regulate the status of the GEOSS, it is also different. In fact, by incorporating the content of this law into other laws. We know that such initiatives have been justified in general. At the same time, however, we are also aware of the significance of all those symbols and emblems that connect and unite the Slovenian nation and which the Slovenians have accepted on a weekly basis, regardless of political, religious, secular or other affiliations. GEOSS is indisputably one of these features, since, although it does not have a particularly long history, we have accepted it as one of the places where the idea of Slovenia's independent country has been built and strengthened in recent times. Later, after its independence, the role and importance of the GEOSS only increased with a number of events, which highlighted mainly national pride and belonging to the small, hardworking European people and their country, confirmed and strengthened the commitment to other symbols of Slovenia. GEOSS is becoming more and more one of the central venues for demonstrating Slovenian statehood and identity. It is therefore appropriate that the GEOSS, which was adopted by the Slovenians in a very short period of time and adopted as the central point of Slovenia, the special law arrangements, be redeemed together with the immediate surroundings of the redemption and adequately protected, and that care for further development is taken by the state. This will also give support and recognition to GEOSS and all the initiators and instigators who have invested a lot of voluntary work in the development of a project that is also particularly relevant in the European environment. However, I support the criticism expressed by my colleague Rokavac of the Government's opinion. If the coalition were more realistic and critical, such criticism of similar government opinions could be voiced several times. The opinion, however, shows the complete absence of understanding of time and of the intent of law. Instead of being proud that we can design such a thing, the government is conveying four opinions, not the most well-founded and weighty concerns that challenge the adoption of this law. As has already been said, our parliamentary group will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Also the position of the Young Slovenia Party. Mr. Bogomir the Grandchild.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. We are also convinced in the Party of Youth of Slovenia that the geometric centre of Slovenia has great national importance for Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia, as it symbolizes the centuries-old efforts of Slovenians to unite, confirms the entrenchedness of Slovenians in this area, borders, and then the sovereignty of the country. At the symbolic level, however, it is not limited to ideological, religious and other differences. With the landmark of the geometric centre of Slovenia, so far many very important events have occurred that further confirm its importance in Slovenian society. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we believe that the geometric centre of Slovenia, based on its symbolic, historical, scientific and technical, cultural and protocol importance, must be classified as an heritage to be protected by the Republic of Slovenia, since the geometric centre of Slovenia contributes greatly to the cultural development of Slovenia and to the dissemination of the awareness of Slovenes and citizens of Slovenia. Since the characteristics of the geometric centre of Slovenia because of its specific characteristics cannot be systematically covered by existing laws, we feel that it is necessary to protect it by means of a specific law and thus recognize its exceptional importance. Therefore, we will also support the draft law in the parliamentary group of young parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded with the presentations and views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday, 2 October following the end of the agenda. I hereby terminate this agenda item and proceed at 3:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u100	Gentlemen! We're moving to 8. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANOTHER PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE LIFE PROTECTION LAW. The draft law was tabled by Mr Saša Peca. With regard to this law, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the applicant for further explanation of the bill, i.e. up to 10 minutes. Mr. Pache, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u101	Your Honors are here! I'll ask you for a few moments of listening. The Animal Protection Act, proposed to the National Assembly for adoption, was created in cooperation with disabled organisations, the association of blind and visually impaired societies, in cooperation with a large number of animal protection societies and in the final phase also with the representative of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. In the Slovenian National Party, we pursued only one objective through the law. It's a small change, but a change that we think would be very familiar with in the lives of a particular segment of our society, that's disabled people. In the law we pursued the goal of enabling people with disabilities to live and integrate into all spheres of society, so that those meeting the most pressing needs to those of a more luxurious nature, better quality and easier. The fact is, unfortunately, our country is very intolerant of those who are handicapped in one way or another. The fact is that this country has come to appreciate only so-called perfect people who meet the standards of modern times and the standards of the European Union, which are healthy, happy and can be said to be beautiful. Unfortunately, everyone else in our society has been pushed aside, without the right to point out their point of view and without the right to exercise this view. Unfortunately, in our places all over Slovenia, blind and visually impaired people should not enter public spaces, because they cannot take a guide dog with them, this is some kind of instrument that would make it easier for them to stay. It is precisely because of these after our assessment of the irregularity that a disabled, blind person can enter public space because the doorman initially stops him and says that he cannot go with the dog, do some official duty, we find it very controversial. Well, it's kind of controversial. That is why we decided that according to the new law it would be written that dogs have blind guides, with a special license issued in a particularly difficult way, and that few dogs have because it is extremely socialised dogs, so that they can enter both public transport and all public institutions. In the Slovenian National Party, when adopting laws or writing legislation, we believed that we would not run into anyone in the National Assembly who would deny support for such an idea that would deny support for the inclusion of disabled persons in all spheres of society. Unfortunately, we did not find support on the home work body, that we did not find support within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the introductory explanation, I should also be allowed to touch on the arguments why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia said 'no and the disabled should not have an equal position in our country', because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia said 'no and we cannot adopt this law', the Government of the Republic of Slovenia suggested that the matter proposed in the animal protection law does not belong to this law, despite the fact that in the existing Article 13 of the dictatorship and the content that speaks of dogs accompanied by blind persons. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia said that this would be part of some umbrella law on disabled persons, which is not even in preparation and which will not come to this national assembly until the next term. So the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, through its left hand, wanted to leave matter, i.e. equalization of persons with disabilities, to another mandate. And the question is, if this idea were to come back then, the idea of resuscitating such a norm, would come into life. On the other hand, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its opinion in its report, stated that it might make sense to regulate such material in the law on the equalization of the possibility of disabled persons. Of course, as proponents, we tried to get in touch immediately with the Union of Blind and Obsessive Associations. But the fact is, if we did this kind of thing, unfortunately, according to the beliefs and instructions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we would even animals and disabled people. Because the fact is, in our proposal, we give, legally speaking, the right of certain animals to enter public spaces. That's why this stuff is part of the Animal Protection Act. Article 13 of the Animal Protection Act states what the rights of blind people with licensed dogs are. In the Slovenian National Party, we ask you to support this law. We are also convinced in the Slovenian National Party that the views of the legislative and legal service can be summarised until the next hearing. We have also offered this proposal in the course of the discussion on the working body, but unfortunately it has failed. We are also prepared if anyone bothers that the candidate of the Slovenian National Party, as the proposer, is also to write someone else, is not important at this time. It is important that the National Assembly accept something that would reflect the quality and content of the lives of those who can be helped in this way. The financial consequences of the law are minimal. At the moment we are talking about 14 dogs licensed in the Republic of Slovenia. According to the Association for the Blind and the Blind, this number can be increased by several dogs, not a few hundred, not a few ten, but by a few dogs in the next few years. Therefore, the possible adoption of this law would not constitute any obstacle to the state budget. However, I believe that, honourable Members, many animal protection societies, as well as other humanitarian and disability organisations, have called on you and urged you to support the proposal - to support it in order to make it easier to apply in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First of all, Mr. Vojko Celigoj, DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u103	The bill’s proponent must have followed the real need of affected persons who urgently need an animal for their guide and companion for their life and work. Most often it is a dog that monitors and guides its blind or visually impaired citizen on the way from home to school, work, work, and with it enters public transport equipment, bus, train, aircraft, or closed public space. Such a proposed solution would allow affected citizens to exercise even more their constitutional right to equality of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The good purpose of the bill was also supported by the affected civil society organisations and their call to support the bill submitted was also received by Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. We, too, are aware of the necessity of legal regulation of this issue, which is currently not regulated. The Group of Members is certainly in an unwanted dilemma, as we introduce provisions on the protection of humans into the Animal Protection Act, although they are extremely connected and are also bound to them by life. The current government has ensured that it will shortly draw up a special law offering a solution to this problem for affected persons who urgently need animal assistance for their as much normal life and work, leading us to a decision to support the proposed law and not to support the Committee's decision. The DeSUS Group will support the law. Our group will also particularly engage in getting the promised comprehensive law in this area in Slovenia as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The position of New Slovenia will be presented by Mr Aloise Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u105	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow Members and Members. Even in our parliamentary group, we are aware that this area should be properly resolved and that perhaps according to its content, this is the most important part of a law or a law on disabled persons, although some solutions might also make it possible to write it in the amendments and additions to the animal protection law. The claims of the legislative service and the government that a change does not materially fall within this law are not entirely in place, because, according to its content, certain provisions are laid down, which would also, if this were the case, not be subject to this law. In this regard, however, we have greater concerns in the New Slovenia Group regarding the definition of public space. What the proposer proposes is a very broad understanding of public space and public institutions. Or would this solution mean that a guardian, a true disabled person who is blind, could really go without any restrictions on all public spaces and public institutions. It should be noted in this respect that when the government is preparing a comprehensive solution in this area, it will have to define this definition more clearly and explain what this means. In doing so, of course, what seems very important to us will have to take into account something else called domestic etology, in this case of dogs. However, it will also be necessary to invite those who are familiar with the behavior of domestic animals in indoors. The fact is that because of the effects of the environment, an animal in a closed space can behave substantially differently than in an open space, and that in such circumstances a domestic animal, in this case a dog, can also pose a certain danger, not only for its custodian, but also for other participants in an event in a public space. This is a very important segment and it is vital to take into account the need for law-making if the law is to achieve its purpose, and this is to help those who need such assistance because of disability. We in our Group will support the conclusion of the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture. However, we expect the government to take this issue seriously, as it has promised, and to provide a comprehensive solution in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Pece. Is there some kind of microphone on? You're so kind and you look at each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u107	Thank you. Maybe a very short explanation. The license to be obtained by dogs of blind guides takes up or contains a lot of training and no fear of providing cinematologists and all those dealing with dogs is not that these dogs are unsocialized or even aggressive. Another matter you mentioned, and I'm trying to convince those who still claim that you won't support the law. As regards the use of terminology in the draft law, which I propose for adoption, I must say that Treminology is in line with the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance within the framework of their representative. Thus, there is no obstacle to the adoption of the law in the Slovenian National Party. There's only so much left to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The position of the United Nations Group of Members will be presented by Mrs Jerca Mrzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u109	Dear Members and Members, dear people! In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we share the concerns of the bill's proposer about the possibilities of quality living for people with disabilities. The possibility of as unhindered access to all public spaces and services is certainly an element resulting from the use of disabled persons’ devices in a specific case of blind guide dogs. It can cause a lot of discomfort for the disabled, which we often do not even realize. The United List of Social Democrats advocates a society that will offer people with disabilities the opportunity to make creative use of those mental and physical capacities that have been preserved by their lives so that they can contribute to their own well-being as healthy people. The more unhindered movement is just one of these options, which also includes the free entry of blind guide dogs into public transport and public spaces. While regulating the possibility of the entry of blind dogs into public spaces may not be the content of the animal protection law, improving the regulation of the rights of disabled people is more important to us than this issue. The problem has to be solved, and we can't be bureaucratic here. The proposal to conclude that the law is not a suitable basis for further consideration will therefore not be supported by the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. At the same time, we have already given the government a written initiative to regulate these rights in the relevant law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The position of Liberal Democracy will be presented by Mr Mario Gasparini. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are aware of our responsibilities to the disabled, who must receive special social protection. That is why we have considered with great care and reconsidered the decision of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the protection of animals is not suitable for further consideration. We also took note of the argument of some legal experts that the proposed amendment to the law is not substantively part of this law, since the supplement regulates the rights of disabled persons, while the animal protection law provides for and regulates the responsibility of people to protect animals. We are also inclined to believe that the proposed legal norm is more relevant, for example, to the emerging law on the equalization of opportunities for persons with disabilities and that the adoption of the proposal would most likely constitute a violation of the principle of coherence of the rule of law as a whole. On the other hand, though, we also had real life and all the problems faced by blind and other disabled persons. As a legislator, the National Assembly must be aware of these problems and do everything in its power to make everyday life easier for the disabled, in this case, even at the cost of a temporary violation of a principle. We believe that adoption, proposing a law does not mean that this same issue should not be regulated by, say, a new law to equalize the possibility of disabled persons or any other law that would fully address this problem, since it could also repeal provisions with equal solutions in the Animal Protection Act. Moreover, we have no assurance that the new law on equalizing the opportunities of disabled persons will regulate this issue at all, nor do we have any information on when the government should send it into the legislative procedure. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we have decided not to support the decision of the parent working body and thus allow further consideration and substantive and nomotechnic improvement of the proposal of the law. In our decision, we would also like to draw attention to the limited power of such and other legal solutions. We all wonder together why, despite the legal ban and the dangerous penalties imposed on public parking spaces reserved for disabled persons in our country, drivers who are not disabled are the most frequently employed in our country. In order to effectively equalise the opportunities of disabled people, there will be a great deal to be done in our society, especially in the area of education and awareness of citizens and citizens. There will also be a need to seriously consider increasing the penalties at stake for such offences. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we do not pretend that today's decision completely solves the problems of blind and other disabled people who help themselves in their movement with the dog guide of the blind and the dog helper of the disabled. However, he is one of the steps that needs to be taken on the road to a society that is friendly to the disabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Janez Kramberger. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In opening, I would also like to say a few words about the Committee. Our committee has considered the law, and I must say that we have followed almost everyone in the committee the opinion of the Government, the opinion of the legislative legal commission and also the opinion of the Commission of the State Council. As we followed these opinions, we also did not support the proposal for a law tabled by our colleague, Saša Peca. However, we have all somehow identified and realized the problem, namely that this matter is not legally resolved. In its opinion, the Government explicitly stated that the Animal Protection Act is a law governing the protection of animals against torture, against adverse breeding conditions, the right treatment of animals is to ensure that animals do not suffer. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service has also been given with a great deal of ambiguity. From the very terms, what is a public place, public space, public institutions. It was not to be expected, however, that the Committee would reject this proposal for a law and follow a government to draw up a special law that would address the issue of equalization of opportunities for people with disabilities. We have also done so and adopted a special decision. Of course, something has changed since the meeting. The government has also changed their minds and found that this proposal will not take much longer. Civil society has also referred to all Members of Parliament and has drawn attention to such a problem. We have also discussed this in our Group of Members, and our Group of Members will also support the proposal for a law or will not support the proposal for a decision of the Labour Body. We are aware of the problem that lies ahead of handicapped people. Personally, I will say that we will continue to address this subject in the Committee on Agriculture and will also need to prepare it very well in the professional sense to drink water, as it is called. Colleagues and colleagues, our parliamentary group will not vote in favour of the decision of the parent working body, but will support the bill tabled by colleague Saša Peca. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Franz Sušnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we have already voted in favour of further consideration of the legal proposal at the hearing of the mother body because we believe that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the animal protection law would allow dogs, guides and helpers to disabled persons, together with their custodian, to have access to public institutions and public transport facilities. We fully agree and support this objective of the proposed legislative proposal. Although it is only one or two articles of the law that we believe that by adopting this supplement, if not essential, at least make daily life easier for blind, visually impaired, and other disabled persons whose guides, in addition to a faithful companion, are also some kind of personal technical aid to make it easier to overcome the obstacles that life presents to them. Such obstacles that we, the healthy people, do not even know. In doing so, I would also like to draw particular attention to the obligation of our constitutional arrangements, which imposes special care and assistance on the weak, to help the needy. Finally, the United Nations Standard Rules on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities and the related task of regulating accessibility to the physical environment in all the meanings of the word. We also know and listen to the demands of the European Union of Blind People, which imposes an obligation on all countries to allow access to the guides of blind dogs to public spaces and public means of transport. For all of this, in the Slovenian Democratic Party or Slovenian Democrats' Group, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection Act and we will vote against the decision of the home labour body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u116	Mr Peter Levič, a youth party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have before us a proposal to supplement the Animal Protection Act, which aims to allow blind and visually impaired people access to public spaces with their dog helpers. The fact is, the dog is more blind and visually impaired than just a tool. It replaces his vision and helps him with tasks that are common to the man who sees. I don't think we're aware of what it's like for a person who is any disabled person who has a difficult everyday movement because of such and different obstacles and limitations that other people place. I mean, of course, both the architectural obstacles and the obstacles that we impose by law. A few months ago, we passed a sign - language law and at least slightly reduced the problems of deaf people in public life. Therefore, I find it difficult to understand a government that is against the above-mentioned amendments to the law, with the excuse that this is not a law covering this area. Unfortunately, this excuse is another area in question that proves how inhuman it can be and how little understanding the government has for the special needs of persons with disabilities. We agree that this law covers primarily the protection of animals and does not define human rights, but unfortunately, we do not have a law that covers only the rights of blind and visually impaired people. We believe that these small amendments to the law, which would mean a great deal of help for a blind or visually impaired person, would not be so inappropriate and so out of context that they could not be included in this law. While the government has been talking for some time about a new emerging law on the equalization of opportunities for people with disabilities to cover this issue. About a Serious Purpose [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] This area is evidenced by the fact that the review of the law's amendment was tabled in the middle of last year, but we are only dealing with it today, despite the fact that it is intended to be dealt with quickly. [[...]] Here you can see what a quick procedure means when the bill is proposed by the government and we consider it the next year and what it is when the motioner is someone from the opposition. If the government had serious intentions with the quick help of the disabled, we would now consider its proposal for a law on equalization of opportunities for the disabled, as these changes waited almost a year for consideration.This is more than enough time to prepare an appropriate law, but we are afraid that such a bill will have to go through a number of coordinations before it matures for the legislative process. And time is running out. In the meantime, fundamental constitutional rights of persons with disabilities have been violated. Therefore, in the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we will support and appeal to other Members to support this right of persons with disabilities to a normal life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u118	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will vote today at 6 p.m. on the proposal for a decision by the working body. I'm breaking this agenda. Next, point nine, we start at 4:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u119	Ladies and gentlemen! We're moving to nine. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Veterinary Act, Shortening Procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed France Sušnik. With regard to this law, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall first give the floor to the representative, the proposer, for a further explanation of the draft law. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! As the first-signed draft law on amendments and amendments to the Veterinary Act, I would like to say the following about this topic, which we have already discussed for the third time in the last two years in this National Assembly. The bill essentially expresses our intention and our desire to abolish the issue of veterinary certificates for animals, for the transport of animals in inland traffic. We are convinced that the current way of controlling animal traffic needlessly burdens breeders as well as the state budget. In Slovenia, we establish or already have established single registers for individual animal species, whose purpose is to monitor movements and origins of animals, the issue of veterinary certificates is additionally linked to the administration and review of animals prior to the movement of animals within the country, unnecessary costs. We are convinced that the non-necessary issue of health certificates is particularly visible or particularly evident in the transport of animals to a slaughterhouse where this certificate does not constitute a credible document, since the animals are subordinated to a specific examination. The introduction of a single system of animal labelling and registration represents additional costs for breeders and the state budget, while maintaining veterinary certificates and costs related to their issue. This is an unnecessary duplication that needs to be avoided. We also oppose the established practice of issuing veterinary certificates as a way to collect fees for the functioning of the veterinary health service. We are convinced that this area must be regulated in a different form, not by issuing veterinary certificates. In the marriage proposal tabled by the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr Franco Butt, on the same proposal last May for a health certificate to be suspended by the end of the current year or by the establishment of a register of animals, we would also like to draw attention to comparability with neighbouring countries. In this respect, our breeders, compared to neighbouring Italy and Austria, are in an extremely subjugated position. Our aim is to address the issue of internal animal transport as regulated in the countries of the European Union, where a system for the issue of intra-country passports is established. Last but not least, Slovenia is before entering the European Union, which means we need to adapt our legislation to the European Union's rules, where it is not necessary to impose additional, stricter standards, which is, lastly, an explanation by the veterinary profession. The identification of the origin of infectious diseases must be uniformly regulated and, above all, this is an area to be controlled by the State. The system, as we know it now, is also very expensive for farmers because of the way we issue veterinary certificates in our opinion. We would like to point out that, both in Austria and in neighbouring Italy, they do not know duality, they do not know health certificates and they do not know at the same time the traceability of passports in inland transport, they only apply health certificates for transport with countries outside the European Union, this is the case with Austria. I would also like to point out that the above-mentioned legislative proposal or proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act has also been addressed by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia and has unanimously supported this legislative proposal and has also agreed with the comments and views of the Slovenian Agricultural and Agriculture Chambers, which also supports our legislative proposal and make comments on some of the articles that would fully address this issue, in the fact that we have only a traceability in the country of Slovenia for the area of bovine animals and that these registers, or the introduction of traceability, are being prepared for small and other animals. Finally, the growing income situation in agriculture forces us to do something about it. We are convinced that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food would be obliged to prepare an anti-biocratic programme in response to all too many administrations introduced in this area by law, with sub-legislative rules in the past period. I am sure that you will understand the intention of the applicants to eliminate unnecessary duplication of records in the case of the issue of health certificates and that in this way the adoption of this proposal will somehow improve the situation mainly in livestock as the main sectors of Slovenian agriculture, where we face serious problems. These problems are particularly exacerbated by severe drought and chronic food shortages this year. The data provided by the veterinarians are menacing that only between 700 and 1000 bovine animals were euthanised in August of the month. This is also due to excessive administration in this area. This is also due to the duplication we are witnessing and thus to the imposition of additional costs on breeders. All these additional costs wipe out all our efforts to prepare the Slovenian farmer for entry into the European Union, destroy all our efforts after increasing direct payments in the agricultural field, because on the other hand we are constantly burdening them again and again. Finally, it is also necessary to reflect on the fact that the trend of the decline of Slovenian farms and rural growth continues unabated. We lose 3,000 farms a year. Sadly, though, the working surface does not increase on the other side. There are too many Slovenian areas in the growing and completely changing image of the countryside. We are convinced that the adoption of this proposal is a step of good will, a step towards regulating the agricultural situation and thus a step towards greater concern for rural development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the groups are now under way. First of all, Mr. Vojko Celigoj, DeSUS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. We have followed the proposed law on amendments and additions to the short-term veterinary law in the DeSUS Group of Members since its first entry into the procedure and treatment on the parent committee. We support the decision of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which has convinced us to keep the certificate, i.e. the health certificate for intra-country animals. Comments on this account, the high cost of obtaining this document and the additional costs of a number of then vets in the field should be eliminated by other measures or compensations. Animal transport cannot be acceptable after the proposed solution without animal health monitoring. The negative experiences that we have witnessed in recent times in the outbreaks of animal infectious diseases that have plagued Europe warn us that it does not indicate a failure to give in to health surveillance, especially in those animals that are offered to the market and to the diet of the population. The opinion of the Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia is also convincing that we have relatively well-regulated animal health care, that the proposed passport cannot be replaced by a veterinary certificate, which only allows monitoring of animal health. With the solution proposed, we note that in this area we would put animal and food health care at a lower level, which would prevent exports and directly affect the volume of such production in Slovenia. Therefore, we will not support the proposed law in the DeSUS Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Aloise Sok, New Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u124	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In fact, we are considering the same law for the second time in this National Assembly today, this is the abolition of veterinary certificates as an additional document in the internal traffic of domestic animals. Otherwise, we have dealt thoroughly with the fifth issue in the adoption of the Veterinary Act. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the abolition of veterinary certificates in internal traffic in the epizootiological sense in the Republic of Slovenia would not change anything at all. Those who claim that this would reduce the level of consumer protection, of course you should know that Slovenia, as a transit country, has a stable inspection through veterinary inspection at all entry points, are said to be at all customs stations in the Republic of Slovenia, and that the processing food industry offers a sufficient level of protection everywhere, as all segments of the processing food industry employ adequately qualified personnel. Most of these are veterinary inspectors who control what comes into the slaughterhouse and control what comes out of the slaughterhouse or processing plant. Let me tell you those of you who don't know that by 1995, we had issued veterinary certificates or so-called passports - the Germans call them Fichpos - and then issued this document by local officials. The passport confirmed the identification of the animals on the market and confirmed that there is no infectious disease in the place of origin which could have been transferred to another place. In fact, the veterinary certificate today does not mean anything else. We only exchanged names and, of course, those who issue this document. A veterinary certificate cannot today guarantee that an animal is healthy. If that were true, then certain infectious diseases would not be transmitted from place to place, and we know they are transmitted. Thus, the veterinary certificate shall be used to carry out what has been done with the passport, namely the identification of animals on the market and the confirmation that there is no infectious disease at the place of origin which would be suppressed by law. When issuing a veterinary certificate, the fee shall be paid. The fee is part of the integrated budget. However, from an integrated budget, specifically from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, all costs relating to the issue of health or veterinary certificates shall be reimbursed. Then what's this collection fee spent on? To a greater or lesser extent for the disposal of cadavers and partly for other needs of the veterinary service. Let me also point out that in Slovenia we have not yet developed a system to separate animal waste from those at risk and risk. Thus today, all animal waste is still being destroyed by a very expensive process, namely the combustion process at the Šostanj thermal power plant. In the process of adapting to the European Union in New Slovenia, we are convinced that we have summed up a lot of bureaucratic manners and that we have very liberalised this area, but at the same time, of course, we are also financially burdened. Recently, a yen farmer told me something that is true. He told me, sometimes I used to drive a snack in my bag in the field, but today I'm driving all those documents and the proofs you gave me that I can prove that I'm capable of farming. The fact is, of course, that all of this costs a lot, and on the other hand, it reduces the success of our agriculture, which is shown, and this has already been mentioned here today, in the reports on the state of agriculture in recent years, which all in turn prove that the level of agricultural production in the Republic of Slovenia is declining. I don't know if I have any more time. Yeah, I have to finish. In New Slovenia, we will not support the decision of the parent working body. We are convinced that only one document would be sufficient, this is a passport for the transport of domestic animals. We are convinced that such a document could be issued by the veterinary service on the basis of a concession and thus the system would remain under control as it is today. However, two documents for the transport of domestic animals are by no means necessary and do not justify the purpose for which they are issued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u126	The transition and adaptation to the European Union undoubtedly have a negative impact on a wide range of industries within our country. According to our assessment, it is one of the most sensitive areas, agriculture and livestock farming. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that there are many too many paths and administrations in our country precisely because of the European Union's adaptation and that it would make sense to approach models and principles that would simplify these paths to make the lives of farmers easier. In its opening speech, the text proposed that in August alone, between 700 and 1,000 bovine animals were killed due to a lack of feed due to weather conditions during this year. I think that this information is sufficiently indicative of the need for a lower administrative burden on Slovenian livestock farmers. It follows that, in the Slovenian National Party, we will oppose the proposal of the parent working body and thus give a green light - at least as far as the members of the National Party - to the draft law under consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u127	Thank you. The word is given by Mrs. Lydia Majnik, Liberal Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The LDS Club will take into account the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia when deciding on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the veterinary law and will support the decision of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food that the law is not suitable for further consideration. We also had this attitude a good year ago when the law was introduced by Mr Rokavac in exactly the same text. Applicants refer to arrangements in some countries, but not entirely. For example, they refer to England, where, two years ago, a number of millions of animals had to be killed because of foot-and-mouth disease. In Austria, where the central livestock register comes to the base, data are also available by veterinarians, so their passport could be the only document required. However, Austria is requesting to transport to another herd a certificate proving the health status of each animal and will soon also begin carrying out on-the-spot checks and at least once a month a visit by a veterinarian to verify the health status of the herd. In Italy, a health certificate is called a certificate, on the Netherlands certificate, also in Portugal. Belgium has regular veterinary checks for two months and veterinary certificates for intra-country transport also requires France. The passport and the central register of bovine animals, which has not yet been operational and approved by the European Commission, cannot replace the veterinary certificate. The passport ensures only traceability and movement of animals, not health. Since the highest potential for the spread of skin diseases is in animal transport, one of the first preventive measures in internal traffic is a veterinary certificate. With the proposed solution, which unfortunately was also supported by the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber and the Commission for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the State Council, this certificate would be maintained in international transport, but would be abolished at home, thus eliminating consumer health concerns at home. We believe that we are obliged to defend the public interest in the importance of animal health to human health and life, whether or not at home. Since the proposed changes are contrary to the rest of the regulation in law and contrary to European Union law, we will not support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Janez Kremberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u130	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Our Slovenian People's Party Group will reject the proposal for a law tabled as its first-signed colleague, Franz Sušnik, and will support the proposal of the mother's working body, the Committee on Agriculture. This is a law that is contrary to both our legislation and European Union legislation. At the time of adapting our legislation, we have also done a lot here in the National Assembly and in the government with sub-legislative traceability acts. The health certificate is a document written by the veterinarian to the breeder confirming that there is no infectious disease in the barn from which the animal comes. This veterinarian shall have a concession from the State and carry out certain preventive checks on behalf of this country and may, on the basis of the results of these preventive checks, write this health certificate with which the animal may go to the slaughterhouse. Then these foods produced in the slaughterhouse may be certified on the basis of this health certificate, in order to be able to go both to our shops and to export, i.e. to shops located in other countries. On the basis of this health certificate, a certificate shall be written that the food has traceability, as we say, from villas to forks. On the other hand, when it comes to the transport of animals from barn to barn, the health certificate is also given by the guarantor who guarantees the buyer that the animals in that breed do not have infectious diseases. This is, in fact, from an economic point of view, a great deal. The country's done a lot for that. We have heard on the Committee that in recent years 7 billion money has been invested in the fact that next year we will be able to grant rations to real farms, statuses that will determine that they are free from infectious diseases. The arguments cited by the applicant are in some sense well heard, but I think that we cannot and cannot simplify things, because these are serious things that mean protecting people from infectious diseases, on the other hand, protecting animals from infectious diseases and, of course, also the economic question, what does it mean if the veterinary service is unable to issue certificates that will allow companies of food origin to export? This means that these companies, which are export oriented, can be described as a disaster in an economic sense. There was a talk about regulating how the UK handled the matter. Colleagues and colleagues, you probably remember two years ago when we were able to watch on TV pictures of animals who were suffering from foot-and-mouth disease. Some of the members of this Parliament were also on a visit to Britain, and we looked at a farm that had been repaired by foot-and-mouth disease. And it was these owners who said that the job was not properly organized, that they thought because the island country was already spared because of this that they would not get an infectious disease. Shares were major economic catastrophes. With such a stock of animals as we have in Slovenia and this agriculture, we must not afford it. Our parliamentary group will not support the bill and will vote in favour of the proposal for the decision of the home labour body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Franz Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! Slovenian Democrats will certainly support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act, because we are convinced that the unsustainable situation currently in force in this area needs to be addressed. Slovenian Democrats are still aware of the importance of health care, human health care and of the comparable arrangements that neighbouring countries and the European Union know in this area. Nevertheless, we are opposed to unnecessary duplication, which we only know in our country in the Republic of Slovenia in this area. Finally, I would like to stress once again that the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia and the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food have supported the legislative proposal. Unfortunately, for the third time in a row, the mother’s working body has fallen under the pressure of a veterinary lobby and rejected the proposed legal amendment. We also support this bill because of our protest to the way slaughterhouse waste is treated, which is also of a kind and special nature in the Republic of Slovenia, because we do not know how to separate risky and risky slaughterhouse waste. However, we destroy all slaughterhouse waste in a highly monopolistic way and incinerate it dearly. We also needlessly incinerate bone meal produced from non-hazardous slaughterhouse waste. Obviously, the fees charged by the State in issuing veterinary certificates are also, and above all, a way to provide money for such non-economic treatment of slaughterhouse waste. Once again, I would like to stress that in Slovenian agriculture we are facing extremely difficult situations that we know in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We want to do something to improve the situation in agriculture, to deregulation in this area, to improve and improve rural life. The first step, a step of good will, could also be to amend the law amending and supplementing the veterinary law or abolishing unnecessary health certificates. For all of this, we will vote against the proposed decision of the parent working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded with the presentations on the views of the groups of Members. We will vote today at 6 p.m. on the proposal for a decision by the working body. I'm breaking this agenda. We'll continue at 4:40.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u134	Ladies and gentlemen! We're moving on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO BE DETERMINED THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE AID LAW - A SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, represented today by Dr Rado Bohinc, Minister of the Interior and Dr Bojan Bulgarian, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Nice to meet you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I'd like to ask the vice president of the committee of mags. Majdo Potter to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u135	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable representative of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present to you the report of the Internal Policy Committee on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Asylum Act. The draft law submitted by the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia in the reduced procedure was considered by the Internal Policy Committee at its 38th regular meeting, on 10 September 2003. The representative of the motioner, Minister of the Interior, Dr Rado Bohinc, pointed out in the introductory additional explanation that there were fewer major changes to the asylum law. Therefore, it was proposed to adopt a reduced procedure. The bill brings two novelties. First of all, it requires the State to issue a passport to an investor, namely a refugee, in accordance with the law governing the acquisition of passports for nationals and nationals of the Republic of Slovenia. This will achieve the required technical standards. Another novelty concerns the protection of personal data and records. The novelty introduces records for the various categories of asylum seekers and a special form with the information required by the asylum seeker in relation to the acquisition of individual types of documents such as travel documents and different types of certificates. Since, in Article 1, paragraph 1, it is explicit that the holder of the travel document must return the refugee status to the competent authority after the termination of the refugee status. This is regulated by the travel documents law. In the opinion of the Minister, the amendment tabled by Ambassador Majda Zupan is not necessary. With regard to the amendment already mentioned, the second representative of the applicant, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, considered that the publication of the passport in the Official Journal would not reduce the possibility of reselling such passports in any way. Other comparable countries do not withdraw their official documents themselves, but they do so to an individual. Invalid passports shall be entered in the record accessible to the border authorities which may seize invalid passports and shall be punished under the travel documents law. That's why the amendment is unnecessary. Comments on the opinion of the legislative legal service were aimed at correcting the confusion in the draft law. The applicant took note of the comments in the proposals for amendments jointly prepared by the Committee's expert service, the legislative and legal service and the proposer. The representative of the legislative and legal service considered that the purpose for which the applicant had tabled an amendment to Article 1 was already fulfilled in the law. Alternatively, the text of the supplement should be redrafted. The Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, for the political system, had no comments on the draft law and unanimously supported it. Members and members of the Committee considered in the debate that the return of invalid passports should not be regulated in the Asylum Act; that, in view of the provisions on the return of invalid passports in the travel documents law of this in the Asylum Act, there was no need to regulate it; that the regulation should be compared with the regulation in the European Union; that, with the proposal, Slovenian citizens were in an unequal position with refugees and that the falsification of documents did not end the bill and that its adoption was not justified. After discussion, the Committee adopted its four amendments to Article 2 and the amendment to Article 4 but did not adopt the amendment to Article 1. The Committee also voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Committee set out the text of the amended draft law. Members and Members of Parliament, I propose that the amended proposal of the law on amendments and additions to the law on asylum be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First of all, the DeSUS Group, Mr. Vojko Celigoj.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Minister and Mr Secretary, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Although the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees reports that the number of asylum seekers is declining, the picture in Slovenia is slightly different, although their number does not increase over the years. In recent times, Slovenia has not only become a transitional country for its journey to Europe, but is also becoming a final destination. The issue of refugees and asylum policy certainly requires special attention, as it is an essential element for ensuring and respecting fundamental human rights and freedoms in each country. Slovenia has already introduced the right to asylum into the Constitution itself. But she arranged for justice to be exercised in the law. Changes in the political and economic, as well as security, require Slovenia to follow the changes and coordinate the existing migration policy with the migration policy of other Member States of the European Union. In the light of this task - this is how we understand Members of the DeSUS Group - also refers to a part of the amendments and the addition of the asylum law that is being discussed today. At least in that part of the record regime, which is probably one of the measures to establish a common European asylum system. In accordance with the 1990 Dublin Conference provision, only one Member State of the European Union will be able to resolve an asylum application in a consistent manner by allowing for a more rapid review of individual Member States, or by countries where a particular person has already applied for refugee status. However, the abuses of those who exploit asylum policies outside the legitimate efforts of individuals to improve their lives will also be prevented. In view of the circumstances that until recently did not require special attention to the issue of refugee and asylum law, practical experience has also been relatively limited. Since, in the opinion of the DeSUS Group, persons who have access to all the information collected that will be entered into the register after the amendment of the law, including professionally highly subdued, it may be necessary to consider further the statutory continuous education of all persons dealing with applicants, refugees and persons with recognised special forms of protection. The agreement on the common development of visa policy also requires high protection against falsifications and misuses of passports and identity cards obtained by a refugee or issued to an asylum seeker. While we believe in the DeSUS Group that the membership of a political party or organisation which the asylum seeker must submit in a request would be attributed to a specific form on which a written consent to the processing of this type of data would also be given. We think it's sensitive. A reason that deeply affects an individual’s sphere or could be a source of possible discrimination. In addition, we wonder what will happen to the person or his or her information for whom a written consent is required under the law to process them if the person does not give such consent. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a law because we believe that the implementation of the new legal provisions will contribute to greater transparency and security of the persons to whom the law applies and, on the other hand, the possibility of abuse of asylum policy in Slovenia and consequently in the European Union will be reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The position of New Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Majda Zupan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u139	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear government representatives, well-respected council. The Government, as a proposal for the amendment to the Asylum Act, excuses the adoption of a reduced procedure with minor changes and additions, which are intended to upgrade the Asylum Institute in some way in the area of the collection of records and the protection of personal data and the production of asylum documents in accordance with technical standards. The pressure of refugees on Europe doesn't start. This February, therefore, the Directive establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member States responsible for the resolution of asylum applications lodged in one of the Member States of the European Union by third-country nationals came into force. Under this Directive, the countries of the European Union in which asylum seekers will enter illegally will also be responsible for the resolution of asylum applications. The percentage of refugees for whom Slovenia represents only an intermediate country on the way to the target is expected to decrease. However, Slovenia is expected to be responsible for the resolution of requests from persons entering the European Union via Slovenia by entering the European Union. That is why our country is becoming increasingly interesting in terms of gaining asylum. As a result, the asylum documents issued in Slovenia will be even more sought after and not surprised by the amendment of the Law of Conduct, which is intended to ensure the issuance of such documents, which will contain protection against abuse, counterfeiting and bribery. It was not possible under the existing law. However, the novelty gives the possibility to issue documents to an authorised undertaking which also uses certain personal data of the applicant in the law. The proposal concerns the refugee identity card, the refugee passport, the recognised special form of protection card and the ID card issued to the asylum applicant, which should show that he is granted a special form of protection in Slovenia. The proposal no longer provides that a passport is valid for a refugee as long as the person has refugee status, but only provides that he must have passport status. According to a government proposal, the validity of the passport is limited to years. The passport is to be issued to every full-year fugitive for 10 years. After the refugee status has ceased, the refugee must return the passport. We find it hard to believe that any of the fugitives will return it from themselves. Will this not create conditions for various abuses and sales? Are the proposed procedures sufficient to prevent abuse? In the Nova Slovenija Group, we believe that changes and additions to the asylum law should not be underestimated, as Slovenia will become some kind of defender of the asylum situation as it enters the European Union. The proximity of the restless Balkans and an appropriate geographical crossroads may pose a serious threat to us by emigration, and we must not overlook that economic and political migrants often hide behind asylum seekers. Adequate tightening of policies in this area will certainly be necessary. However, the question is whether such a law will provide the necessary legal basis? Will the police take appropriate action? That'll tell time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Pece. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u141	Madam Member of Parliament, Mrs Zupanova, the representative of Nova Slovenije, has raised some questions that the amendment of the law raises. The answer to them is "I." The adoption of the law will allow for a higher level of crime, the reselling of cards and a more expensive country at its own expense to issue passports and ID cards for asylum seekers at the expense of Slovenia and Slovenia. The fact is that Europe supports this because Europe avoids them and they like that the intermediate zone, today Slovenia, is ready to do everything for asylum seekers and to keep them as long as possible in the country. Europe would probably even say that if Slovenia decided to build them houses and give them transport resources. Even then, we would have been commended by Europe. For with this Slovenia - and increasingly - will become a promised land of some kind. We will not support the bill in the Slovenian National Party. Because we are assessing that the law is the basis for inequality. A Slovenian citizen, a worker, will have to transfer funds for the production of a passport and a ID card while you grant it to an asylum free of charge. We further assess that the possibility of falsification of documents and documents will not be reduced and that the level of crime and the sale of such documents will increase. As you yourself have found, in marriage you do not demand the return of those, but you expect them to be returned voluntarily. In the Slovenian National Party - and I hope that the entire Slovenian public - knows at this time why such a state is a dear country in Slovenia, why our government is wasteful and why such a state of public finances is. We also estimate that such laws are a consequence of this, because you obviously have no better job at the Ministry. We won't support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the United List.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Since it will be very short, I would like to leave here, if I may, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u144	Sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u145	We support the proposal for amendments to the Asylum Act, as was the case in cooperation with the legal and labour law and editorially corrected on the home labour body. It provides asylum seekers, refugees and persons recognised as special forms of protection with legal protection, the collection and use of their personal data, documents and documents that will protect them from abuse, counterfeiting and bribery. This is particularly important because Slovenia is becoming a more current and interesting country in terms of gaining asylum because of its democratic order and political stability, as well as with the coming full membership of the European Union. All open issues in the law have been cleared up in the debate on the bill and amendments in our opinion. It is therefore possible to fully support and ensure its adoption following a reduced procedure at today's meeting of the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The position of Liberal Democracy is to be presented by Maximilian Lavrinc, whom we have not yet seen today. Maybe, Mr. Anderlich, he can't? Good. Mr Franz Kangler is supposed to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party, and we have not seen him today. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u147	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! So the proposal made by the Government, namely to amend and supplement the law, in order to remove the gap, as stated, in the collection of records and the protection of personal data, which allows the production of documents. In doing so, they should also prevent abuse. As provided for in Article 56, the following documents are particularly apparent: the asylum applicant's card, the refugee's passport, the refugee's identity card and the recognised special form of protection. The proposal for amendments is intended to regulate the protection of data for asylum seekers, refugees and persons with special protection. Abuse may occur in an abundance of data. This change is supposed to be a solution to the protection of the human rights of this population, which appears at the door of our country and also becomes a burden for our country. In doing so, it is also important to stress that they also become a burden for those places where their homes are in such or different forms. By entering Slovenia into the European Union. Our country will become an external country of the Union, so it will be a borderline, so it will be directly at the strike of applicants for entry into the European Union, either for legal or for illegal purposes. By legal or illegal means of entry. We can assume that after May 2004, the number of these persons will be substantially increased, which will become the burden of the Slovenian state and the source of disputes, where the state will arrange the centres for these persons. The government has foreseen that the implementation of these changes will cost the country 16 million SITs, about 200 passports and 1500 asylum certificates per year, and there are also costs for the establishment of this system. This raises the question, of course, whether the new Slovenia, despite its inclusion in the European Union, should set such a high-quality standard of instruments in particular and, therefore, in particular, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that the number of applicants in each category will be significantly higher and that costs will therefore be higher. After all, it would not be the first time that this would have happened and that the assumption of the State would have been contrary to the actual situation. On the other hand, concerns are justified. For the citizens who will finance these instruments for the various categories of foreigners have to fund these instruments with great cost. The latest data today I checked the passport for Slovenian citizen costs 8990 SIT and ID 4005 SIT. The state must have an orderly situation in this area. The State must also control the situation of the entry of foreigners regardless of the category. This was especially the case after September 11. Therefore, it is understandable to require data on belonging and membership in the political party and organisation to which the applicant belongs. This was also quite controversial on the committee. But that's the way it is. We can't be an exception and we're not in a cellophane. In doing so, however, the State must act with extreme discretion and cost-effectiveness. The pressure of the lobby preparing these documents cannot be the cause of such a high standard for a population that pays nothing and is the burden of citizens. It is also true that this must be accepted. These people are here. That's a fact. In doing so, we would like to draw attention to the important detail in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which shows the state of the spirit in our country. The Government's explanation that the maintained records, which will allow for a change in this form, will make it possible to plan an asylum policy. This proves that so far we have been without it and that we have only put out fires in such or other forms. In doing so, we would like the government to choose, if it wants to have such expensive documents, so high a standard, that the European Union will also finance these documents. This would also enable us to check in the European Union whether it is really necessary that we have all these documents and so rich. Although we do not oppose the intention of this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. However, the solutions offered and offered are certainly not the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The position of the Youth Party is to be presented by Igor Štemberger, who is also not present today. So, we are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will be held today at 6 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. The next item, item 12, will be at 5.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u149	We'll continue with the 29th regular session. I also cordially invite the government representative to the 12th item of the agenda. This is the third consideration of the proposal for a law on humanitarian organisations. I ask that all of you, including the Secretary of State who has just joined us, take your seats and allow the 12th point to begin. The draft law was drafted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the third consideration of the proposal for a law on humanitarian organisations. The Secretary of State shall have the opportunity, if he so wishes, to further explain the proposal of the law. Please have 3 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just wanted to accompany this discussion and then the vote by finding that we have led the law very wide, with a very broad debate, including between civil organisations, among humanitarian organisations themselves. We believe that he is now ready for this stage, that he actually means some ratings, some positive contribution to our legislation and the system of functioning of charities. Even in the light of what has happened in the past, this law actually means that there is actually more control, a better work of these organisations. I propose that, in this sense, we also now do this last act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The debate will now follow. Members' groups or their representatives will receive the text. First, my fellow magician. It's a trifle. He will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. He will be followed by a colleague of Peca to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Comrade Petty Officer, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u152	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Government representatives! In the New Slovenia Group, we are pleased that this law has come into consideration, that we have led it to a third reading and that there has been only a coordinated proposal for regulating humanitarian and charitable organisations, as in the case of disabled organisations, where a narrow circle of people has enforced solutions and many have become entangled. We are also pleased that civil associations and civil organisations have found the necessary consensus on the key issues of regulation and functioning of the humanitarian organisation. The key findings of this law are that the principle of openness and volunteering was respected, i.e. that this law ensures the integration of different forms without prior conditions, requirements for the transparent functioning of organisations. Which will certainly reduce the attempts of abuse that have occurred in recent years, in the last year, in the last two or three, and to which the public, as well as we, have been alerted. It's a matter of effective control. Institutional supervision is also provided for in the law. In this context, the use of funds provided for humanitarian activity, the placement of assets in the course of business, the issue of assets after the termination of the organisations, if they are dissolved, and the restriction of earnings, which was also complicit in the Slovenian public. For if people donate or are allocated by the State, at least at the level of the earnings of government officials, it is necessary to reconcile these earnings. Nevertheless, there are still some questions, some proposals that have not been answered properly. We prepared them in Novi Slovenija. This is the creation of a special article on the organisation of humanitarian organisations in the world of humanitarian organisations. This would be good at internal level in terms of representing interests towards the country, to coordinating with other actors, and certainly also at international level. And that, as you know, has been getting more and more lately. Unfortunately, no provision has been made concerning whom this law deals with. They should also be allowed to be disabled persons. Because there is a violent separation between chronic patients and people with disabilities. Such a proposal may be found some other time, with a better understanding and a study of international legislation, i.e. with other members of the National Assembly. Such an interpretation to eliminate it may present some funding problems, for some organizations are comprehensive and help if they are humanitarian organizations, disabled people, patients and many others. But then the disabled won't be able to help. The Authority will require this to be eliminated. These are the specific issues that will follow from this law. Of course, things can't be fixed now because they're already gone. In addition, we have proposed some other forms that are more appropriate. Organisational forms that are more suitable for the implementation of programmes. Society, activity, society as a person of civil law is not the most suitable for carrying out activities. We have others, such as cooperatives, or cooperatives in our conceptual space or institutions. At least here we could allow these forms. There is certainly a violent division between disability and humanitarian organisations. I believe the time will come and with it so much wisdom [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and understanding that this is to be placed in a common law. [[...]] Finally, in the international space, we will be asked: Are disability organisations not humanitarian organisations? Don't they work under these principles? Nevertheless, dear colleagues and colleagues, in the New Slovenia Group, we will support this law, which, despite these limitations, will bring greater transparency to Slovenia. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] responsibilities and good performance. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Kolega Drobnic explained the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Mr Peče will explain the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u154	In the Slovenian National Party, we welcome in every way a new third consideration of the law on humanitarian organisations. For the reality shows that the uncertainties in this field are of no benefit to anyone today. It is therefore appropriate to define the conditions, criteria, financing and property in the law. I also think it makes sense today to draw attention to the fact that my fellow Member, Bogdan Barovic, has also raised on the committee a dilemma concerning humanitarian and disability organisations and the meaning of a single roof law covering the aspirations of both. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided on two separate laws. We hope that this is a good decision, that this is a decision that will have positive consequences. It is also true that it is better to have two marriages in this area than none. This follows, in particular, from the parent's working body, that we will also support and wish him as much happiness as possible in the Slovenian National Party in the third reading. I think that this is one of those laws that will require happiness, especially since it touches such sensitive matter that has been over-exploited in negative phenomena in the past. It follows that this particular area in our country should offer once again the credibility and credibility it had in the past. We will support the proposal in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u155	Thank you very much, buddy. A colleague of Stanislava Stopar will present the views of the parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy. After that, I will give the floor to my colleague Brenčič to present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. First of all, my fellow hitchhiker, please have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Good-bye to all of you! Following a decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted at its meeting on 10.7.2003, the Government drafted the text of the proposal for a law on humanitarian organisations for third treatment. It takes into account the adoption of the amendment to Article 9a and the text is also legally regulated. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we assess that the Law on Humanitarian Organisations fulfils the objective of regulating the social situation or status of humanitarian organisations. It therefore also implements the guidelines and tasks arising from the National Social Protection Programme. It lays down clear criteria or conditions for the acquisition and termination of the status of humanitarian organisations. It defines and regulates humanitarian activities in the field of social and health care as an activity to achieve noble, humane goals for the direct benefit of individuals. It also regulates the form and manner of activities of organisations for chronic patients, which are in line with the World Health Organisation guidelines, and regulates financial operations and property issues. At the same time, the law also imposes on humanitarian organisations the obligation to report and external controls. In the LDS Group, we were more inclined to have the idea of a comprehensive regulatory framework for disability and humanitarian organisations in a single law. However, we believe that the practice will be one that will show the real need to merge both types of organisations into a single legal act. We also welcome the proposal of the Law on Humanitarian Organisations for the reason that we estimate that there will be no new affairs with the precise regulation of financial transactions, as in the organisation of the Red Cross of the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that the whole regulation of the law serves the fundamental objective of developing voluntary work, solidarity, charity and self-help, which means a new movement and quality of social benefit for people in accidents, social distress or disease needs help. It is therefore an opportunity to integrate the affected equally into life with the healthy and to improve the quality and autonomy of their lives. We will support the proposal for a law on humanitarian organisations in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u157	Thank you very much, fellow hitchhikers. Mr Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Immediately after the adoption of the law on disability organisations in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we made a permanent effort and appealed to the government to prepare a comprehensive solution, both normatively and legally, as well as a secondary area of humanitarian and charitable organisations with the law, as it would be appropriate. That's what happened. This law was discussed from all angles on the work of the mother. In the final version, he was practically prepared for the second reading. It could even be adopted by now. Nevertheless, it is good that the law is here today in the third reading. I'm sure we'll confirm it in the same content as it's prepared. It is our only regret that we have not allowed humanitarian and charitable organisations to organise themselves in a higher form and thus be an even more successful interlocutor for both the country, that is to say on the inside and on the outside, within the framework of partnerships in the European Union. But that's good, too. This law gives us a person who has this happy and human culture within him so that he can act in an organized manner for the benefit of others, those who need help. It will now also be possible for the Foundation authorities to prepare the necessary spectrum of changes to the Foundation's acts in order to eliminate these suspicions and scepticism in the distribution of money, as such, in a socially beneficial way. Of course we'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u159	Thank you very much, colleague Brenčič. Mr Tsukati will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. He will be followed by his colleague, Levič, to sum up the presentations from the views of the SMS Group. Let's get my buddy Tucky first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Dearly beloved, we have before us a law that may seem to be less important, but for us, our loved ones, it is still very important. Because we no longer live in that old village community, where people really helped each other, where there was no official, state-run sociality, but people were not lonely in their tribulations. They had help, neighborhood help, well-developed. For we live in an age where people, when they get old or when they get sick or are raised to the social side, are left alone, alone. Then it is imperative to arouse in people this humanitarian sense and build a humanitarian aid network. It is now the duty of the State to do so in these circumstances. For those old classical forms, even religious works, are no longer sufficient. This area must be approached by the State in order to fulfil this gap. If we just look at the case - we now have about 15.16% of the population over 65 years of age, that is over 300,000 inhabitants. Of these there are over 50,000 of them who regularly or occasionally need home care, the elderly. Taking into account the need to provide these people with a decent life - I am talking only about this segment - it is also necessary to know that the country cannot fully fulfil this task with its mechanism. Only example: Costs for care in 2002, for caregivers in nursing homes, where only 5-6% of the elderly were 11 billion. For 11,000 guards. 11 billion. That's what you call a million per foster home. At that time, the country spent 36,000 tolls per year to help care for the home, a man who stayed home alone and did not go to the homes of elderly citizens. That's 27 times less. It costs less to take care of the country in its home environment than in the home of elderly citizens. Neither do the finances allow the country to take full care of this population. It is urgent to encourage, and it is imperative to develop a humanitarian network in this segment as well. Ensuring, however, means not only adopting the law, but also putting such content into law so that we can develop humanitarian activities so that we can encourage it. I will not talk about funding, about tax legislation, where we have a scandalously unregulated area of donations where contributions to humanitarian work are taxed. As soon as they're over 3%, they're also taxed on income. It's a raccoon in Europe. This is one of the biggest bottlenecks in the development of humanitarian activities, but there are also legal obstacles to the development of this activity. One of these obstacles was that we did not have a law on humanitarian organisations. In this respect, we welcome. In this law, however, there are some shortcomings that are of such nature that I am surprised that, in fact, government representatives and the parliamentary groups have not accepted them. Indeed, the content of humanitarian organisations is limited - if we look at Article 5 - mainly to social and chronic patients. See, the first indent of Article 5 speaks of the rescue of endangered people and lives. These are the humanitarian objectives pursued by the humanitarian organisation. In view of the fact that the time has passed, I will proceed in the debate of Members. [[Cell phone ringing.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u161	You didn't run out of time, but someone else's phone rang unkindly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u162	I am allowed to combine the time of the Group of Members and the parliamentary debates of Members. Let me get on with it. Article 5 - see - refers to the content or objectives of humanitarian activities, the resolution of endangered people and lives, the relief of social and psychosocial pressures and problems, the improvement of the social situation, the strengthening of health, the prevention of deterioration of the social situation. Then there are two more indents: to prevent the deterioration of the health status of people with chronic disease and to create opportunities for the quality and independence of people with chronic disease. Gentlemen, 80% of the elderly do not have chronic patients. Age is not a disease. Obesity is not a disease. So this is not the goal of humanitarian organisations. If a humanitarian organisation wants to carry out care at home and is running for material costs - because we know that this activity must be based on charity - it will not be able to run for funds because it carries out this humanitarian activity for the elderly who are not sick. What about the wounded? What about a healthy old man who fell down the stairs and broke his spine or hip, and he's home alone? Once a day, someone should visit him, bring him something from the store, something like that. This is not a patient, not a chronic patient. He's a healthy man. He's just hurt. We have not introduced a normal dictatorship where we would say that creating the opportunity for the most qualityly independent life of the sick, the injured and the elderly. I don't know why it's impossible to get an amendment like that through. For according to this law, the chronic patient is the one who is incurable. Is AIDS incurable? We have cases when they're cured! After ten years. What's it like to be incurable? It is said that we will remove from this content all those who are healingly ill. So, who are not chronic, they appear to be incurably ill and damaged. In short, some of this nonsense that I don't understand that you haven't accepted our amendments. I'm sorry. If someone is going to ride on the literals of the law, which, of course, officials and bureaucrats have to do, then I'm afraid there's going to be unnecessary, pointless complications. This is just one bitter taste of the opposition’s amendments being less valuable or not worth talking about. In short, we will support the marriage as a parliamentary group because there is no other. But we're sorry he's no better.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Levič will conclude a presentation of the views of the delegations. He will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u164	President! In the previous examinations of the law, there have been discussions on the relevance of regulating humanitarian and disability organisations in two completely separate laws. Unfortunately, in this consideration of the law, we must also draw attention to the stated boundary between patients with chronic illness who are supposed to be assisted by humanitarian organisations and persons with disabilities who are to be cared for by disability organisations. We were once again aware that we have two separate laws, those in Western Europe and no one, not the government representatives who proposed the law, nor the representatives of all these organisations can imagine how this divide will draw in real life. Only someone who is actually coping with the problems of a disease can tell him how we will make his life more difficult by adopting this law. Would it not make sense to have only one law covering both disability and humanitarian activities? The Disability Organisations Act has now been passed. Before us is the final consideration of the law on humanitarian organisations. In the Youth of Slovenia party, we point out that when this law is adopted, it is not so much for the applicants to be able to be a member of these humanitarian organisations, which will now have to be organised as societies or associations of societies, but for who will be entitled to finance from the FIHO Foundation. It is quite clear that humanitarian organisations cannot operate without funds. It is also quite clear that the government has decided to order the allocation of funds from this foundation. The Order, now ruling in this area, has been calling under the system law. So far, only the rules have regulated this area. Thus, only some humanitarian organisations received funds under the Regulation. But some, even though they were established for aid and humanitarian activities, did not. The exception, of course, is the Red Cross, about which we have a special law. Nor could a special law prevent abuse. The Government, as a bill-maker, has decided that humanitarian organisations can be organised as legal entities on the basis of a social law. And that's where the problems come in. Some humanitarian institutions already operate as institutions or have different ways of organizing them. These organisations will be forced to change their legal status if they want to run for the FIHO Foundation. What will happen to these organisations in the meantime? What about their operation, the program? How will they be financed at this time? No one could explain this to them on the board. On the other hand, the newly established organisations will have to operate for one year before they can apply for the status of the humanitarian organisation and thus obtain funding. I understand the proposalr's fear that the mass establishment of societies could result in an unintended use of funds. But working without the possibility of obtaining funds throughout the year and then proving that society is working successfully can be very difficult. We agree that a certain limit must be, but a condition must also be laid down so that the so-called seed can be separated from the weeds. We also agree that this circle could be shorter. Members of the Young Slovenia Party will support this law because we believe that we urgently need this law, although we do not agree with certain provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Comrade Levich. We have thus concluded a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I have a short list of those who want to discuss the bill as a whole. I don't know if my colleague Tsukati has exhausted his debate yet, or does he want a word again? [[He doesn't want to.]] Perhaps Mr. Secretary of State would like a word before the debate is concluded? Please, you have the floor, mag. It's a peak.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I would just like to warn, not so much to answer, but to point out some of the facts that we discussed in our discussions and that they have been reexposed today. This law does not exclude the Council of Humanitarian Organisations. In any way, humanitarian organisations can unite. There's no objection to joining forces. But they will definitely not act against the country or against anyone else through this world, and they will cooperate with the country more. So that's why we didn't want to, but also because there was no willingness in the humanitarian organizations themselves to force them together. I have also stressed several times in our debates that I see no reason why we should have a single law in the field of humanitarian and disability activities. There's been a decision. I believe that perhaps one day there will be a different kind of union. But the fact is, there will have to be readiness on the ground, that is, between humanitarian operators and disability organisations. In other words, this law does not exclude anyone. This includes the whole range of social categories. Anyone carrying out a humanitarian activity in the field of social activity under the conditions laid down by this law will be able to participate and be able to participate in all the ratings that this law allows. And only with regard to fear for those who might have to re-register. We have already pointed out several times that the Administrative Procedure Act allows continuity, so we do not expect any problems for those already engaged in humanitarian activities here. They're just gonna have to comply with this law. We expect that this process will be completely inconvenient, that it will happen within the time limits provided for by this law, and that the country - as I said before - not only will the state, that the Slovenian public will have a better review of what is going on in this area, so that you too will have a better view of what is going on under this law. I would like to thank and join a member of Parliament who wished the law good luck. Here, I would say, not the law, but to all the organizations that carry out this activity, which is covered by this law, I wish for a happy and successful work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. No amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a law on humanitarian organisations and it is not possible to discuss individual articles. 8 minutes, 8 minutes before 6:00, when the National Assembly will come to a conclusion on the points that were on the agenda yesterday and today, I interrupt the meeting. We'll continue at exactly 6 p.m. My colleagues and colleagues are then invited to be punctual and we can begin immediately by making decisions. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u168	Colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats in the parliamentary benches. We will now move on to proposals, to decisions on proposals for decisions and other decisions. I will ask you, please, colleagues and colleagues, to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. Are you so kind as to check the functioning of the voting device that they do not then get guesses, or do they work properly or not? Can we move on to a decision? Okay. Then we'll move on to our decision on break two first. PERFORMANCE OF THE DAY'S LINE. Yesterday, on this 2nd item of the agenda, we were able to listen to questions raised by Members and Members of Parliament to the government or ministers and ministers. A proposal was made with two colleagues for the State Assembly to adopt a decision on a discussion on the reply of the competent minister or minister. We will now decide on these two proposals in a row. First of all, I will read a proposal for a decision that we will vote first, which reads: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rad Bohinca, to Saš Pečet's question on police conduct with the MP of the National Assembly." Explanation of voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr President, on behalf of the Group of Members, I will explain my vote. The UK Group will not support this proposal. On the night between Friday and Saturday, physical violence among young people occurred in Hrastnik. The father of one of the participants, Member and Mayor Bogdan Barovic also took part in the settlement of the dispute. She's been mediated by the police. Police are a law enforcement and law enforcement agency in the country. Its work is difficult, but it must be careful not to overstep powers and violate human rights. In the United List of Social Democrats, we respect and enforce the autonomy, neutrality and high professionalism of the Slovenian police. When and how it acts differently, we demand action against those responsible. We therefore support the decision of the police and the Ministry of the Interior to examine the contentious events in accordance with the law and to prepare a special report on this. However, it is not acceptable for us that any action by the police or other repressive authorities against individuals with political functions is tended to be politically motivated. For the United List of Social Democrats, we are Members, Mayors and other political officials, as regards the situation and personal behaviour in the case of personal rights, citizens like everyone else. The law protects us and requires us to act as against each other. We therefore strongly condemn attempts to link police action to the political functioning of officials and the political interests of the United List of Social Democrats. For such false accusations, the Slovenian National Party has no basis. These accusations are at the level of slander and innuendo used by this party because of its political interests. Such issues cannot and must not be decided by the National Assembly. That would be the degradation of the rule of law. We believe that the National Assembly is aware of this and that it will not accept the proposal for a debate on a street incident just because a Member has participated in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u170	You have the right to clarify your position.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u171	I'd be happy if you'd share your opinion with the speaker in front of me. However, I would be happy if the speaker were so wise and would examine the facts first. I propose that this National Assembly determine the impartiality of the police to determine whether the Ministry of the Interior and the police are not under the influence of the United Nations. Tons can be given a debate and the Slovenian National Party weighs in on this. But priors say, "we have nothing to do with it, but they are this and this..." No, gentlemen! This isn't the way. The fact is that we wanted to extend the debate in such a way that police violence, unjustifiable, would not be particularly against ordinary citizens, because ordinary citizens of this dear country do not have the opportunity to take advantage of the national assembly, what Mr Bogdan Barovic had the opportunity to make public. They're unprotected. And in the interest of all these unprotected people, it is necessary to consider the Minister's response, which was misleading and full of ignorance and also his response, which followed that the police report is not yet final. How, then, can one claim something final in this national council! Let's open the debate, let's let it talk! There was too much police violence that was unjustifiable in this country. I propose that you support the proposal for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek, you now have the floor to explain your voice. And the rest of you, please don't disturb the debate. There's no controversy. Now there's an explanation for the voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u173	I would expect the United List to support such a debate if it did not somehow have a bad conscience to influence the police. In fact, we need to note that some people in this country have the wrong picture of who is working with the police. As its director does not declare himself leftist, they think that he decides in all parts of Slovenia. However, we must find that in environments where the United List is in power and the investigation of corruption committed by its members or such cases are in Maribor, there are in Ljubljana, SIB Bank, the bust in Maribor and so on. [[...]] At the same time, it acts quite aggressively in environments where it lost power, in Primorskie, in Koper and Zasavje. Here are the classic examples of double-watts and the extraordinary influence of the United Kingdom, this finding is correct, on the repressive authorities, although everything seems to be in accordance with the law. It would be extremely important to have a thorough discussion on this matter, the interruption of the cord with the past. If you had democratic feelings, you would have supported such a debate and freed up these doubts that exist in the Slovenian public. I will, of course, support this debate. I also hope that, while Members or former Members receive exemplary penalties, this National Assembly will somehow shake and try to actually shake it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u174	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. Comrade Kelemin, did you want a word to explain your voice? You wanted a word? You have the floor. My friend Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u175	Thank you so much for your kindness. Respectable all together! I tell you the truth; given that it is difficult for a person to obtain data, real data and honest data about an event, because everyone can tell their story, it is difficult to identify themselves to any such case as has, of course, been mentioned now or has happened now, and has also been presented in the National Assembly. To tell you the truth, I was thinking of holding on to this question and not actually supporting it, because it's hard to tell the truth. But given what I've experienced today and in these days and even in the past, I've remembered what a mess this para-state official oligarchy is doing to certain people in this country, which is absurd to absurdity. If anyone has listened today at half past five on Val 202, what kind of pig show was made against Mr. Bogdan Barovic. It's a piece of shit that's never happened to her anywhere in the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u176	Peace in the hall! Just a colleague of Kelemina's. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u177	How can someone make fun of MPs, mayors and make comparisons like they did on this show? And it's not the first time. This isn't the first time. We Members and mayors, and everyone else, must be humble sheep, and we must only kneel, because we hold that we are, in fact, ordinary footmen. But to go so far, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This is a great deal of everything, so I will support this proposal and I want to find out where these para-State authorities of the oligarchy that rule in this country are actually. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u178	My friend Lavrinc wanted a word. Please. I ask that we also discuss the most controversial things as required by culture and rules of procedure. Please, Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I won't support the proposal. If the proposal were supported, I think we would have assessed the system as if we had set a bad foot. However, I would like to recall that we have recently adopted amendments to the law on police, and it is at the initiative of civil associations that we have put in place such a disciplinary procedure, which, in my opinion and even after the opinion of those people who participated in the formation of this law, guarantees objectivity in such procedures. That's the first one. Secondly, I think we should never allow the National Assembly to waste time in some way without appropriate arguments, grounds and so on and lose words on a particular case. After all, we must not forget that we are the legislative branch of power, the legislative body and that our task is to prepare matters by systematically regulating them. That is why I will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u180	Comrade Kangler, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and honourable Members! In a way, I also feel personally that I have to answer. You could have told any speaker before me that he was right. Given the role I am performing myself, and also overseeing the work of the police several times, I do not think it would be wise for us to take a decision in a timely and swift manner today, so we need to talk about this here. With all due respect to my fellow Members and with all due respect to my fellow Member, Mr Barovic, I cannot support this proposal at this time. For this reason alone, I do not think that the law enforcement authorities must do their work at the right time. Only when the picture of the work done by the law enforcement authorities is clear will our work arise in my opinion. It is true, and I attach to all other fellow Members that these and other things have been happening lately, which are important for our continued work and the work of our commissions. With all my responsibility here, I promise that I will also pay special attention to this case, when the picture is a little clearer, with my activity and political question on all committees and commissions where I work. However, I would not like to judge an event through all those who have ever posted such and other media articles. Therefore, I cannot support this debate at any given time, because I believe that the work of the authorities would make it premature.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u182	Thank you very much, colleague Kangler. My friend Petan wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! This case, and what we have heard, proves that no law that we accept to settle matters, guarantees that things will be settled. If there is no right environment for this, if there is no right atmosphere, if there is no right willingness, no law can help. But I also came forward because - of course I will support this proposal - because it happened or looks like it, but I will not prejudge that what I have warned about will begin to happen when I adopt this amendment to the police law. Those of you who have been on this board, and those who have sat down and know what I have said, will be attached to me. I said that this amendment of the law allows for the politicisation of the police, so that political spheres can be involved in the professional work of the police. That's what I've been alerting you to, and that's why I'm calling you now. Looks like it's starting to happen. I hope I'm wrong. I'll be very happy if it turns out that's not the case, but I'm afraid the latest events, not just in this one, but also in Cyprus and probably something else, and what doesn't happen, should happen, proves some black hunches. Of course, I do not wish to give any further opinions and decisions in this regard, but I would therefore like this debate to be discussed in order to clarify something there as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u184	I will not interrupt anyone if he speaks within the time he has, but I suggest that we not use this as a debate, but just as a brief and clear explanation of his voice. Several other colleagues have been reported. First, Comrade Petty Officer, behind him is colleague Tsukati. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u185	On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to say that we will support this proposal. Not because you want to continue to have a conviction. We don't know what it is, and that's why we're proposing that this clears up. Not just because of this case. This could just be an trigger mechanism. We know that a number of cases have been disputed by interference from one side or the other, and this metal is a bad light on the police. This bad light remained, even though we did not come up with answers by the Ministry, by the government, what it really is. That is why we do not claim that something is wrong in advance, but in view of these procedures and these events that have taken place in Slovenia in recent years, and in particular this last one, it is necessary for the State Assembly to talk about this. We support the fact that the National Assembly, in particular the Government and the executive branch, speaks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u186	My friend Tuck. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u187	Let's not forget that one of us was beaten. One of us. And that the statements of the police are something completely different from the statements of the Member. I don't know what's true. Barovic never lied to me. Nothing. And the statements were completely different. Mr. Runk, if you beat me up, I'd like this cleared up here. Are we one community? In these years, however, we have become, and a relationship has been established. If you were beaten by the police and you were suspected, or you'd say they were innocent, I'd be the first to say we have to clear this up here in this family. Gentlemen, whoever votes in favour will be a member of this collective, and whoever opposes this, I fear what will happen if I am in Barovic's skin. I'll be very disappointed.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u188	Comrade Juban. No, it's not a problem. There's no controversy. That's what I warned you. Please, everyone, please don't speak in such a way as to provoke controversy. I'm asking for the collegiality that was mentioned earlier. First, my colleague Juban. I ask for collegiality and respect for the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I will support this conclusion. First of all, for a simple reason, because no one convinced me that we have any business option today to decide who was right tomorrow, in this case, and at the next meeting. And I will feel nothing less valuable to a member of this collective if I do not support this proposal for a simple reason, because we are not the body to judge and judge this matter, and in the end we may even decide. How many will be "for" and "against" to decide whether the case has been properly dealt with or not. Secondly, this national assembly, which is not highly respected in public research, can also spend the positive points it has for it, if we deal with such matters, to decide today how the police hoped to reach an MP or mayor. We don't know anything today. We have one story, another story, and a lot of other stories, and we're gonna decide who was right. Why would mines be confusing? Every parent normally reacts strongly if their children are involved. With all due respect to Mr Barovic's reaction, if that was true. However, we do not know the details, and we will decide who was right or whether the matter should be dealt with in this congregation before we know to the end what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u190	My friend Kremjar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I think that we would have done very badly if every time something happened to a Member, this National Assembly had a very serious debate on what had happened to the Member. We're not a union association, but we're supposed to be doing something else. Secondly, the system institutions exist, operate, the system institutions must operate and the system institutions must be monitored. We have mechanisms in this country that control the institutions of the system, even in this national assembly, we have mechanisms to control these institutions. And let those mechanisms do their job. The National Assembly is not a political court. In the last days, twice already, we have received initiatives to do so, let's deal with this case, let's deal with that case, and let's allow the cases that are, I don't know now by the police thing, but are in the process of investigating which are under way. Are we going to play prosecutors, judges, cops now? But that's not going to work. The National Assembly is a legislative body which has a commission to control this, that and the third. These committees should do what is required for us to do. The National Assembly is a legislative body and should remain a legislative body, not a speedy political court. That is why I will not support such a proposal in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u192	I've got two more applications. Dr. Bernick's colleague first and behind you, Dr. Brace. Dr. Bernick's colleague first. Please. Can you turn on the microphone?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u193	I will vote in favour of this proposal for the following reasons. Firstly, this incident has happened to our fellow Member. Secondly, I thought the Minister of the Interior was arrogant yesterday and he was wriggling. Thirdly, because it seems to me that this matter belongs here, not for these reasons, as they were told that we are not this and that, but we are also an investigative body that must watch how authorities behave. Fourthly, for the following reason: the new Rules of Procedure are written on the skin of those who do not understand democracy and it seems to me that it is necessary that we also apply here from time to time as Members, that we are not just officials who control us and tell us what to do and what not to do. I think that kind of thing is part of democracy. Although it can be said that there is no pluralism in our country, it seems to me that all the parties here in this House should be happy to have such a phenomenon clarified. This should even be supported by the police, if what they say is true, then it only benefits them, but if it isn't, there will be consequences. The same goes for Mr. Barovic, our colleague. I think it's imperative to clear this up, because otherwise we'll have mud on our faces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u194	Thank you. Dr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the proposal put forward by Mr Pece, there is no indication that anyone would be guilty on one side or the other. This is simply a matter of debate. I will support this proposal. I will support him because I think we need to express solidarity with one of our colleagues. Solidarity because he was in a fight to say, with repressive organs, no matter who did it. But he's the weaker side in this matter and he's our colleague. And if he's our colleague, then we need to act collegeally. Well, that's a very basic requirement. However, what Mrs Lavrinc is saying and so on about the laws and so on, we have listened to the proposal to set up an investigative commission on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u196	We will now decide on the proposal for a decision, which reads: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rad Bohinca, to the question raised by counterpart Saš Pečet on the conduct of the police with the MP of the National Assembly. We're voting! May I have your attention, please? The center of the vote. 68 present. 19 for and 45 for. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 45.]] Such a decision has not been adopted. Comrade Jože Tanko proposed a decision, which reads: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Minister of Culture, Mrs Andreje Richtar, to the question of the question of the implementation of the media law. Anybody want to explain their voice? Comrade Tank, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. Let me just refresh my memory. I asked the Minister how the supervision was carried out and what the findings of the Ministry of Culture were in monitoring the media according to the content I stated in the explanatory memorandum. I would also like to know whether any measures have already been taken and, possibly, any criminal sanctions have been imposed. I would like to point out then that most of the provisions I have asked about should be applied by the end of 2001 at the latest, some by the end of 2002, and that at least one and a half years or two and a half years should be carried out under the provisions of the law, inspection supervision. As regards the issue of management, ownership and voting rights, this should be published both in February 2002 and 2003. This is Article 64 of the Media Act. Media coverage, May 26, 2002, year and a half. Restrictions on ownership and concentration should be published and known in November 2002. These are Articles 56 to 58 of the Media Act. Incompatibilities of advertising and RTV activities, RTV and radio and so on, November 2002. Operators, programme notification and programming council, end of 2001. The Minister hasn't answered a single question. Given that I have not received an answer, this matter is mature not only for the answer to the debate or for my proposal, but is more or less mature for interpretation, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] because it is clearly a failure to comply with the obligations for culture and inspection contained in the media law. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u198	Comrade Petan, colleague Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u199	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. I will only say what should have been done at this time, and the adoption of the law was not, so I will support this proposal. In May 2001, more than two years ago, a law was passed to bring more order and transparency in the media field. Issuers should publish in the Official Journal, by the end of February 2002, for the first time in February 2003, data on legal and natural persons holding at least 5% of their capital or voting and voting rights in their assets. The names of the members of the administration or management and the issuing supervisory authority should also be published. That's Article 64. The situation in the media should be quite clear, this is Article 12. Entry into force for one year. It is said that there is a situation concerning restrictions on ownership and concentration or no connected persons. These are paragraphs 56 to 58. The deadline is 18 months until the end of 2002. The conditions concerning the compatibility of radio and TV activities, advertising and RTV activities with telecommunications and RTV activities, paragraphs 59 to 61, are the deadline for entry into force at the end of 2002. Operators should also notify programmes by the end of 2001 [[This is referred to in paragraph 113.]] which they transmit, as well as establish the programming councils and adopt an appropriate act [[as referred to in paragraph 114]] . The Ministry of Culture shall be responsible for administrative and inspection supervision of the implementation of the provisions of the law. None of this was made of anything. It has been practically over two and a half years now, and none of what the law prescribes has been done. It would therefore be right to discuss this and to remind those who owe anything to the letter of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Comrade Bevk, behind you, Dr. Bayuk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u201	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we do not believe that the debate under Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is necessary because in its reply, Minister of Culture Andreja Richter has already partly answered the question raised by his fellow Member Tank. However, for the second part of the explanations requested, it is actually reasonable to obtain written information, which Minister Richter also promised her fellow Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u202	Comrade Dr. Bayuk, behind you, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The New Slovenia Group will support this proposal. It is essential that this national assembly begin systematically to require the executive branch to respect consistently the laws adopted by the national assembly. I already had the opportunity today and I had to point out certain things, but I would also like to inform all my colleagues and colleagues that it is not only that the acts of law are not being implemented, that the things that the executive branch should do under the law are completely ignored, in the ecclesiastical - so let us forget about everything, we are doing what we want. Fevdalism is long overdue and must reach the rule of law in Slovenia. Today I had to write to the Prime Minister and ask him why article 73 of the Public Finance Act is still not being respected this year when we should send us a report on the implementation of the budget for six months. He's not here! There is no minister! She didn't report! Why isn't he here? Yeah, because they do what they want. And if we don't demand these things, if we don't demand clear answers from the executive branch, that's what's going to happen to us. It is the responsibility of all of us to request an answer from the Minister to this question raised by our colleague Tanko and to hold such a debate as would be appropriate in the national assemblies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u204	Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I am very grateful to my colleague Tank for pointing out that he has been in flagrant violation of the media law, his failure to enforce it for two years. I hope that everyone in this Chamber is aware of what it means to violate the legislation of the Minister, what are the political sequences and what is the political hygiene of the world in such cases. I hope that the Minister, who also considers himself Minister of Culture, is aware of this. By not publishing shares, management rights, programmes, content that should have been implemented for the past two years, it covers and conceals the actual state of affairs in this society. This puts pressure on journalists who do not have rights within the regulatory framework, which are also subject to this law. This paints all the irregularities present in this society. There is no political will on the part of the Minister, her party and the ruling elite that a law with which we were not satisfied when we adopted it would not be good enough, because even if it were implemented, it would not be good enough. There is no political will for this law to be implemented. And that's scandalous.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u206	May I ask for peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u207	I must say that it is scandalous that, in fact, many people in this country do not know how to avoid and violate legislation. I hope that this assembly will confirm this debate and that we will achieve this because at the same time I have read the Minister's reply. The minister said it was a pity that the colleague had not previously warned about these matters so that she could prepare herself. Yeah, you should refer that to me at any time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Comrade Petty Officer, now you have the floor behind you, Comrade Kelemin, and then I think she's still a colleague of Cuckoo. [[...]] Please, Comrade Petty Officer first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u209	I believe that we must hold this debate because the Minister has not replied. This is one part of this answer, and the other part is that it does not carry out what the law provides for it. Whether it is unemployment or not, this will also be demonstrated by the debate. The government's questions or answers should be discussed on a number of occasions. Getting statistics on the answers is a sad picture of this national assembly. Not the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. 50 per cent of Members' questions are not answered. He's blowing up at the National Assembly. They are simply not available, they have the opportunity to be answered by the Secretary-General of the Government, not by him, not by him. We have introduced the Institute to raise in advance the question that it should be defined in advance so as not to surprise the Minister or the Minister with questions. Is something wrong? Implore, the answers are still small. This government really doesn't work. There is a need to hold a debate on this. Then you say, let's leave what the executive has to do, in the last case, questions about police matters. How can we put this on if they don't work? They just don't do what we tell them to do. And then we can expect some solid media system? We can't. The rights have been violated, so I will support this proposal to hold a debate and to get the right answer and also what the government or the minister intends to do and when it will do so. A commitment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u210	First a colleague of Tsukati, behind him a colleague of Kelemina's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u211	Since our work is Sisyphus’s work, or meaningless work, if the legislative branch of power does not respect the laws, then our work is pointless. The executive branch does not carry out what we accept here. The case of the scandalous purchase of operating tables at the Clinical Centre would not have happened if the Minister of Health had complied with the requirements of the National Health Programme, which was adopted in 2000, and which ordered him to adopt standards, had established expert groups accompanying the purchase, and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u212	Peace during the debate!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u213	and the monitoring of this equipment. [[...]] This is also the case in the area covered by the Minister. There are a number of laws, sub-laws that have not been adopted and, of course, the damage is here, the damage is done. I think that these are things that are sometimes more important than the things we deal with in a particular law. The National Assembly should also deal with such matters raised on the questions raised by the Member States. These are, I stress, sometimes more important things than just the adoption of an individual law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u214	Even colleague Kelemin, then we'll move on to the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u215	Thank you very much. My colleague Tanko has certainly raised the question well, but the Minister's reply was in fact poor or insufficient and it is therefore necessary and urgent for this additional debate to take place. We are aware, however, that all of us, and particularly the members of the coalition, are aware that you will no longer make such mistakes, which you did when you supported, say, what kind of a proposal for a discussion, and then you are sorry or likely to receive a lesson from the head a little, that this should never happen again, and now you will logically no longer make this mistake. I'm aware that's the kind of debate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u216	There's no dispute in the bench!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u217	Very painful for you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u218	There's no dispute in the bench!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u219	It is necessary to determine where those reasons are or why such a relationship between the executive branch or individual ministers to non-execution is. Then, of course, it is also possible to determine who is behind all of this. It is certain that the media in this country have in the hands of the one I spoke of earlier, a para-state official oligarchy, which is so deeply buried in the ground that, of course, we ordinary citizens find it extremely difficult to see and find. But it's probably gonna come out slowly. Now I hope you will also, because we Members are just exploiting every possible institution that we have as Members on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, that you will probably end the explanations of vote soon, because we sometimes find here some word that might stab you. I hope that you too will soon do so, so that we will be completely undemocratic and also an unrecognizable national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u220	So, colleague Jože Tanko proposed a decision, which reads: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Culture Minister Andreja Richter to his question of how to implement the media law." We are voting on this proposal. May I have your attention, we're in the middle of a vote. Peace in the hall, we're in the middle of a vote. 62 present, 18 for and 41 for. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 41.]] This proposal has not been adopted. We have therefore decided on all matters of agenda 2nd. We are moving on to a decision on matters that have been terminated on the 3rd item of the agenda. This was or is a second consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the value added tax law. First, we will move on to a decision on the amendment tabled to Article 39. We will vote on the amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy Club on Article 39. We vote on the amendment to Article 39. May I have your attention, we're in the middle of a vote. 67 present, 62 for and 2 for. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] We're done voting on the amendments. The Government, if I am well informed, has already made a proposal to have a third reading of the proposal of the law at this meeting under Rule 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. This proposal will now be decided by the National Assembly. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. I have already said that the President has a new device to determine the results and that we need to double-check the way that there are no misunderstandings. We're in the middle of a vote. 65 present, 54 and 8 versus. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that we have accepted this procedural proposal. Thus, the State Assembly will hold its third hearing on Thursday, 2 October this year, following the conclusion of the final item of the agenda of this meeting. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and an article to which the amendment has been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This also interrupts the third point. We are moving on to a decision on items 4 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a bill supplementing the excise law. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a bill supplementing the excise law, the second reading, is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting! We vote on the proposal for a decision that this proposal is not suitable for further consideration. 70 present, 61 and 3 up. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that this proposal has been adopted by the assembly. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the proposal for a law supplementing the excise law has been completed. This also concludes this item on the agenda. We continue with the cut-off point 5 and the decision-making of matters related to it. This is a second reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on gambling. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. The New Slovenia Group tabled two amendments to Article 8. We will first vote on the first amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 8. May I have your attention, please? We're voting! Excuse me. I'm breaking up. Now Comrade Petty Officer will explain his voice. I looked around the hall, but I didn't see you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u221	Thank you so much for saying that I can explain my voice. This amendment refers to the fact that most of the concessions, as has been so far, would be earmarked for the development of humanitarian and sports activities in Slovenia. I think this is necessary for the rural and rural sectors to develop as far as this is concerned. This will not only affect the functioning and market position of these gambling organisers. They will maintain the same competitive position. I therefore propose that this amendment be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u222	We vote on the first amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 8. We're voting on the proposal. May I have your attention, please? We're in the middle of a vote. 68 in attendance, 7 in and 49 in. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 49.]] The amendment was not accepted. The New Slovenia Group also tabled a second amendment to Article 8. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? We are in the middle of the vote on the second amendment of the New Slovenia Group. 63 present, 59 for and 2 for. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. That's how we ended up voting on the amendments. Does the government have any procedural proposals? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u223	Taking into account the debate on the proposal for a law and given that the conditions of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are met, the Government, as a candidate of the law, proposes that the State assembly carry out a third reading of this proposal at that meeting, if possible on Thursday.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. The government proposes to hold a third hearing at this meeting. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We are moving on to a decision on this procedural proposal. We're voting. If it is more than a third against it, the decision will not be adopted. 67 present, 53 for and 11 for. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 11.]] I'm guessing the conclusion is confirmed. The National Assembly will hold this hearing on Thursday, 2 October 2003, after the end of the agenda. The services of the assembly are required to prepare a review, which will also include the adoption of the amendment. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes the agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - second reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the protection of animals. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the protection of animals in second reading is not suitable for further consideration." We have wishes to explain our voice. First of all, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u225	Thank you for your word. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, I think we have unanimously supported and agreed that addressing the issue of disabled persons does not belong to the Animal Protection Act. That actually seemed strange to us, you might say, even rude. We have thus come to the conclusion that the government should address this issue in a comprehensive manner with the law on the integration of persons with disabilities, which would also address other open issues. Today, I have found, surprisingly, that there has been a change in this thinking and that most of the groups of Members have stated that they will oppose this decision of the Committee on Agriculture. This, of course, means that it relieves the government of its responsibility to fully resolve this issue. We remain in our parliamentary group in our opinion, and we believe that these changes are not sufficient and that, as such in practice, the law will not be able to live and will not work because this issue is related to many others in some other laws. This is how we will vote in favour of this decision of the Agriculture Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u226	Thank you. Dr. Bayuk has the floor to explain his voice. Did you sign up? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Comrade Brenčič, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, because of the obligation, I could not be present when the item was discussed at 3 p.m. However, I would like to say that I will reject the proposal. I think we need to find out something in this case. The Animal Protection Act can also be referred to as the Animal Rights Act. And if there is anything positive about the mission of animals to man, then it is certainly the mission of a guide dog to his guardian or what he would call it, a protector. I believe that, in this context, I hardly understand the Government that it is so receptive to this proposal, which is otherwise a positive proposal, regardless of who put it in the National Assembly, at least for my view. Perhaps it is not the self-image with which this paragraph is written in the bill, I would say, more than anything else, perfect. This can be completed in a second reading. Therefore, it is only reasonable that we send the law to a second reading and also in accordance with the opinion of the legislative and legal service, as well as with the Government's considerations. In any event, it is not expected that there will be a quick proposal for a law on equalization of opportunities for people with disabilities on the benches. And if nothing else, then let this subject matter enter this law. Only when we adopt a law that is supposed to be more suitable for this subject can we regulate this in the transitional decisions. I call on you to save the disabled who are blind to this law, rather than reject its subjectivity, and to reject the decision of the parent's working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u228	There is still magic to explain the voice. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u229	Thank you for your word. In fact, from a substantive point of view, we should not object to this bill, but we have listened to the context in which it is adopted. In addition, this issue is not fully regulated. Something is true, the government has been promising for several years a law on the integration of persons with disabilities or on the equalization of opportunities, because this aspect should not only be regulated, but also many other things. Accessibility to buildings, equality to education, including some social rights, in the right direction of equalising the possibility that we will be able to follow at least some of the average countries with average standards, as far as persons with disabilities are concerned. I am not going to oppose such an initiative, but I am not going to put myself in this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u230	Thank you and my colleague Sušnik, who has the floor to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u231	Thank you very much. I will vote against the proposal of the law that the proposal for a law supplementing the animal protection law is not suitable for further consideration, because I think that, irrespective of all the concerns expressed in the treatment and which are flying to the incomplete regulation, it is still necessary to listen to those 29 or 30 disabled persons, blind or disabled, who need the help of a guide dog to enable them to enter public spaces and public transport. To this end, our constitutional arrangements force us to call upon international associations, organizations of the United Nations, and we should certainly be forced to do so by humanity, our relationship with the human being, and this attitude toward the fellow man who is already so pitied by the hardships of life that he has already faced with the problem in his life, in his survival. For this reason, I will vote against the proposal of the mother labour body and we will also vote in favour of the Slovenian Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u232	Thank you. We can go to the vote. We will decide on the proposal for a decision, which reads: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the animal protection law, the second treatment, is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. 64 present, voted 2 to 55. [[The vote was 2.]] [[Against 55.]] The proposal for a decision was not adopted. I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. It will therefore be dealt with by its mother's working body at a second reading and prepared by a supplementary proposal for a law to deal with at one of the next meetings of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I move on to the 9th cut-off item of the agenda, to the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Veterinary Act - a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the veterinary law, the reduced procedure, is not suitable for further consideration. Can we move on to a decision on the proposed decision? Comrade Sušnik, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will certainly vote against the proposed decision of the parent working body. I will vote against it because I think the National Assembly is once again missing the opportunity to take one step towards regulating critical issues in the agricultural field and in the rural area. It's not a big step. However, this step, a step that would be taken by considering the law on amendments and additions to the veterinary law, would eliminate duality in the case of the issue of medical certificates for internal traffic and duality, mentioned at the same time as the enforcement of traceability or passport. This would be an important step, giving an important indication to Slovenian agriculture that it does not care what happens to agriculture, what happens to rural areas. Unfortunately, agriculture does only contribute 3% of the gross social product, but at the same time it is necessary to know that agriculture is directly or directly dependent on half of the Slovenian people living in rural areas. This attitude towards Slovenian agriculture, for which agro-economists find it to be in an increasingly poor situation, is underestimating and I have no hope that it will change now or perhaps change when farmers are less than officials or veterinarians. There's probably no other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u234	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. May I have your attention, please? We're voting! There's 63 of us in attendance. The vote was 47 to 14. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on asylum, the reduced procedure. We are in the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled in the third reading of the amendments to the supplementary proposal, we are moving on to a legislative decision. In doing so, I inform you that the government or the legal and regulatory service has failed to inform me that the law is inconsistent. Explanation of the voice of Comrade Yaša Zląbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u235	I'm going to vote for this law because otherwise it's not possible, but I have to say that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u236	May I have your attention to the debater?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u237	When we get to asylum, when we get to asylum, when we get to that kind of thing, the right hand, of course, is happy to shiver because it's not Slovenian blood, but it's foreign blood. [[...]] The problem is, he's here for whoever wants asylum, he's got to have, I counted them, more than 60 data. Given that people who come across national borders do not have documents, no one can have those 60 and more documents to prove how completely innocent and fine they are. This is not because of this, which means that the number of asylum seekers will always be smaller if we put such problems on the road. When we look at other countries that have significantly more asylum-seekers, they are significantly more human and open to this matter. I will vote in favour, but quite bitter.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-30-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u238	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 50 votes against 2. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the last, item 12 of the agenda - third reading of the bill on humanitarian organisations. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. That is why we are moving on to a full decision on the law. May I have your attention, please? We are voting on the law as a whole. The 63 Members and Members present voted in favour of 60.1 votes against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. I hereby conclude the 12th item of the agenda and interrupt the 29th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you for your cooperation and goodbye!
