ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u1	Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! Please take your seats in the hall. I will begin the 26th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of our Rules of Procedure. I will first inform you of which colleagues and colleagues cannot attend for various reasons. These are colleagues Battelli, Bozič, Dr. Brejc, to begin the meeting of colleagues Brenčič and Dr. Merlo, from 3 p.m. to colleagues Lenko, from 4 p.m. to colleagues of Terčon, otherwise colleagues Fabjan, Gračner, Juri, Kangler, Kopushar, Levič, Pece, Petan, Peterle, Podobnik, Pohorec, Pucko, Sok, Švagan, Trofenik and Mag. A visor. I invited the Prime Minister to attend the meeting at 1st item of the agenda tomorrow at 10 a.m., representatives of the Government to all agenda items and representatives of the Office of the President of the Republic, representatives of the Judicial Council and representatives of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia at the 19th item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We will first proceed to the establishment of the agenda for the 26th session. The proposal is prepared in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to it on 16 May this year. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure. As regards withdrawals, I should like to inform you that I have not received any proposals for them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. However, I have received proposals for extending the agenda, namely: the Government proposes extending the agenda by considering the proposal for a law on the prescribed interest rate of late interest, the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for liabilities under the leased loans and issued debt securities Dars for the realisation of motorway sections from the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia amounting to EUR 246,72 million, the proposal for a law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia, Dars for the hire of credits for the construction of motorway sections from the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia amounting to EUR 246,72 million, the proposal for a law on amendments to the railway law, the proposal for amendments to the law on State administration and the proposal for amendments to the law on the promotion of coherent regional development. All these enlargement proposals have been accompanied by a proposal from the government to deal with them as a matter of urgency [[You've got a proposal on May 26th.]] . We will now decide gradually, in steps, on individual proposals to extend the agenda. Please, mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Excuse me, I would like to intervene, as you know, as you are aware that I have suggested that we also consider the Trade Act at this meeting of the National Assembly, because I have put it into the process of acceptance on behalf of New Slovenia. That's why I want to know what's going on with this law. And I demand, of course, that the addition of the agenda by this law or the inclusion of this item on the agenda be voted on as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u3	Well, if we were to vote on the proposals that came before you, on the Government's proposals for enlargement, I would inform the National Assembly that I have also received your proposal, a proposal from the New Slovenia Group of Members, to extend the agenda with a proposal for a law amending the law on trade following a reduced procedure and a proposal for a law amending the law on income for a second reading. If you agree, Comrade Drobnic, after deciding on government proposals, you will also come to your proposal and then explain your decision why I do not believe that your two proposals meet those conditions, which must be met, that the National Assembly decides on enlargements. I will therefore put to the debate first the Government's proposal to extend the agenda by addressing the proposal for a law on the prescribed interest rate of late interest. Would you like a representative of the government? No, no, no. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? No, no, no. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's proposal to extend the agenda by means of that bill. We're voting. 47 in attendance, 39 in and 2 in. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal to extend the agenda has been adopted. The assembly will consider that proposal on Thursday 29 of this month as point 19.a. I am putting to the debate the Government's proposal to expand the agenda by considering the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for obligations under leased loans and issued debt securities Dars d.d. for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the national highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia up to EUR 246.072 million by emergency procedure. Does the Minister want a word like that? Please, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. It is a proposal of two laws, once on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia to Darsu, if I can explain at the same time, and the second on the guarantee for the liabilities of the leased loans, for a loan intended or to allow the start of works on some very important motorway sections, especially on the 10th corridor - as the first Šentvid-Kosese and then as listed - in particular - on the upper and lower road legs. All these legs are also covered in this year's DARSA plan, which was also adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please, Comrade Drobnič, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. This law does not comply with the rules of procedure and cannot therefore be included in the consideration of this meeting of the National Assembly. We must be aware of this and abide by the rules we have adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u7	Master Petty Officer, this law is imposed by emergency procedure. And if you look at the articles that talk about setting the agenda or procedures, you will find that in such a case such a proposal meets the conditions. Anyone else want a word? Don't you? The National Assembly will then decide on the Government's proposal to extend the agenda by means of the above-mentioned bill. We're voting. 55 present. 40 for and 12 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposal for an extension has been adopted and will be considered as a 19.b item on the agenda on Thursday. I am putting to the debate a proposal from the Government for enlargement to address the proposal for a law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia to Darsu d.d. to rent credits for the construction of motorway sections from the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia amounting to EUR 246,72 million, following an urgent procedure. The Minister used the time earlier to briefly present this proposal. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Then I'll make this proposal for a decision. We are voting on the proposal to extend the agenda by means of that bill. Please. 50 in attendance, 37 in and 7 in. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposal has received support and will be dealt with on Thursday, 29 May, as point 19.c. I am putting into discussion the Government's proposal to extend the agenda for the consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the law on rail transport by means of an urgent procedure. Any of the government's representatives want a word? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u8	It is a matter of amending or supplementing the Rail Transport Act and amending the Rail Transport Act, where we have defined the rental of credits or loan guarantees, which is in line with the agreement on the preparation of the budget in previous years and this year. This is thus a smaller part of the determination of the liability or guarantee, including the reimbursement or payment of interest and credit costs at the first and second levels of a good 12 billion this year, in order to define more precisely the purpose of the use of these credit funds used by the Railway Agency in its operations, in particular the part of the implementation of the compulsory public transport service for passengers in public passenger transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Nobody. Then we will move on to a decision on the Government's proposal to extend the agenda by means of that bill. We're voting. 60 in attendance, 43 in and 9 in. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted and that we will consider the draft law on Thursday 29 of this month as item 19 of the agenda. I am putting into discussion the Government's proposal to expand the agenda by addressing the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the State Administration Act. This one is also put in by emergency procedure. Does the government want a word? No, no, no. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Not at all. Then we'll decide on the proposal. I'm putting it to a vote. We are voting on the government's proposal to expand the daily paper with that bill. 55 in attendance, 41 in and 4 in. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against four.]] This item, which has been adopted on the agenda, will be considered to be the 19th item of the agenda. And another from the government's proposal package, a proposal to expand the agenda for the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the promotion of coherent regional development under the urgent procedure. Representative? Minister? A representative of the government? The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Not at all. Then we'll decide on the proposal. We're voting. 59 in attendance, 44 in and 7 in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the seven.]] This proposal is adopted. On Thursday we will treat it as the 19th item of the agenda. Now we're talking about your proposal, Comrade Mag. It's a trifle. This is a proposal from the New Slovenia parliamentary group, as it is said, to extend the agenda by means of a proposal for a law amending the law on trade and the proposal for a law amending the law on income. I also asked for an opinion on the legislative and legal service and also received an explanation in this regard. The agenda of the meeting of the assembly may be extended in the event of the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in Article 64, paragraph 6, of the Rules of Procedure, which provide that the agenda may be extended only if the reasons for the extension arise after the convocation of the meeting in the cases referred to in Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure, where, for the first time, the extension of the draft law by emergency procedure or, where the decision of the State Assembly is linked to a deadline laid down by the Constitution, law or by that Rules of Procedure. Thirdly, as regards matters relating to the termination and confirmation of the mandate of a Member and immunity or other holders of public functions or matters relating to elections, appointments, discharges and, lastly, to the provisions laid down in Article 92 of the Constitution. Since your two enlargement proposals do not meet the above conditions, the National Assembly cannot deal with them today. However, if the College so decides, both points may come to the June session. Okay. We will then vote on the agenda as a whole. So I suggest to the Assembly that today's session please, Mag. It's a trifle. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u10	Regardless of whether you have listed or put forward a motion for a vote on these two proposals, I have the right to have a rule of order to explain, i.e. to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u11	You can do that. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u12	To our decision. [[...]] Well. Of course, you will now find official reasons why this law, in particular the Trade Act, has not been included in this meeting of the agenda. That's why it's been enough time. The law was also dealt with on the parent’s working body, but then terminated because there was no political will to keep the law going. After all these delays that we are experiencing for the reason of the ruling coalition, of course, we are not going to have to deal with the law. We know that behind this is a referendum initiative - it is, of course, an opening time for trade. The maneuver tried to stall twice, and all these maneuvers were pointless. I also understood all this as an abuse of the Constitutional Court. It is twice our or your decision to send this referendum question or request for a ruling to the Constitutional Court, to reject it twice as unfounded and to have the State Assembly decide on this matter. So the time to put on the agenda was enough. The law was prepared at the beginning of this year, meeting all business requirements. By not including this law, you take full responsibility for the consequences, including for costs and pointless work. I think the citizens will understand that. It's an irresponsible start. The law should be placed on the agenda, even if you, Mr President, now promise that it will be included in the June session, I cannot believe this, because it has already happened several times to include it and you have changed your mind several times. In short, I propose that this proposal be put forward by the National Assembly to vote on the proposal for the inclusion of both laws, which I have proposed on behalf of the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group, to be discussed at the May Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u13	Look, buddy mag. It's a trifle. My judgment was purely of a business nature. I asked the legislature for an opinion. As you know, I got your proposal on Friday, I think a few minutes before 12:00 and since then we have been consulting on this and only on the basis of the business nature of the interpretation of this problem have I also decided, not on the basis of other motives or interests. Anyone else want a word before the vote on the agenda? Nobody. Then we will vote on the agenda as a whole, as we have amended it with decisions relating to the agenda items. We're voting! 59 present. 46 for and 12 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that we have fully accepted the agenda, that it is set and that we can start at 1:00 at 3 p.m. when ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia answered your questions, fellow Members and fellow Members. Prime Minister, mag. Robbery will answer them tomorrow at 10 a.m. to the first three questions from members of the opposition. I'm adjourning the session by 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u14	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! Please take your seats. It is a minute past fifteen, a time when, at the beginning of regular meetings, the Prime Minister and the ministers and ministers will answer your questions. As I have explained today, Minister Rob is not present for obligations abroad. He will answer tomorrow at 10 a.m. and answer three questions raised by colleagues or colleagues from opposition parliamentary groups. Today, almost all ministers and ministers are here with us. At least they should be. Four or three are excused, in addition to what has already been said - the Prime Minister, Mag. Robbery, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Booth, Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr. Rupel and Minister of Justice mag. Bizjak. I have no other apologies, and ministers are obliged to answer the questions that respectable colleagues and colleagues will ask today, as well. In the event that a Member does not receive an answer to the question raised at today's meeting, the appointed Members must provide him with a written reply, which will be published in the bulletin of the National Assembly. A Member who has asked a question that has not been answered may indicate that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next meeting of the National Assembly. We will go in line, according to current practice, you have also received a review of oral and written questions and initiatives that have not yet been answered after the deadline. We are now moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. Colleague Marija Possonec wants to raise the question of the interior ministers and the environment, space and energy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u15	Nice greetings to all present! I ask the Minister of Environment and Space and Energy: Is he aware of the negative impact of the planned reorganisation of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia? Specifically: What will the move of the Geodetic Authority of Lendava to the Regional Geodetic Authority in Mursko Sobota, say, regarding bilingualism? 50% of clients want to do business in Hungarian because some do not even know Slovenian, so they are forced to do business in Hungary. How can they do this on the Sabbath of Murski? What does this mean about the traffic situation - he only drives a bus to Mursko Sobota once? What does it mean about the specificity, the fragmentation of land in our area, which means that more customers must go to the cadastral at the same time? And what does it mean about anti-regional policy if we impoverish the countryside to the end? As for the traffic situation, I would say that he only drives a bus to Mursko Sobota once. Unemployment in Lendava will only increase, which contributes to the uneven development of the region. The criteria for determining the proposed dislocated units are not comprehensible to those employed in the Lenduan exhibition of geodetic administrations, so I am asking the Minister to clarify the main criteria for the emergence of newly formed units. Thank you. Second question. Since I cannot raise an oral question to the government, I will put it to individual ministers. That is, a month ago I pointed out the catastrophic decline in the number of members of the Hungarian National Community in the Republic of Slovenia - I repeat: based on the 2002 census performance, we are less than 20%. We would reasonably expect the state authorities to respond to this fact in an appropriate and rapid manner. So, I ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs: What measures has he taken since the unemployment rate in Prekmur is not increasing? The adult population, especially young people, is displaced due to job shortages. I ask the Minister for Agriculture, Food, Forestry: What measures has he proposed regarding the restructuring of agriculture? As many as 72% of the land will not receive any incentives, i.e. subsidies. I ask the Minister for Regional Development: What did she do to bring a more coherent regional development programme to Prekmurje?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u16	I'm a colleague of the Possonians.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u17	And the Minister of Economy would ask: What has she tried to do to create new jobs in Prekmurje?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u18	Colleague Pozsoncheva, you can ask two questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u19	One question I would ask the government: What did they do this month? Since I can't ask the government questions, I've appointed ministers. Thank you very much. I hope that they will be able to respond to what they have done this month to stop the further deterioration of the Pomur region.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u20	Who wants to answer questions or questions from ministers or ministers? Minister of the Environment, mag. Digger, he just came into the hall and I'm giving him my word. You're probably familiar with the question? You also got it in advance. He wants maybe please, Minister Mag. The digger. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u21	Thank you for your word. If I understood the question correctly, it was about ending the exhibition of the geodetic administration in Lendava or the question of whether it was true or not. Of course, this moment is not true, but it is true that a reorganisation is taking place in the geodesic administration. I think there have already been two questions on this issue. And in the context of this reorganisation, we intend to transfer or concentrate individual works in regional centres, which, for citizens looking for geodesic services, will not know anything; they will still be in all the points where the geodesic administration is today, the rest of these points may only be combined with an administrative unit, which will only be more appropriate for citizens. There they will invest, these applications will be processed elsewhere, not in that city, not necessarily in that city, and then the citizens on the same counter will also receive the service. It is true, however, that this is a process which is opposed by individual staff members of the geodetic administration, because it necessarily means certain relocations and also a certain suspension - unfortunately or not, I will say sorry; in short, it is a fact - of some unnecessary jobs. This reorganisation will take place, not overnight, but in time, the fact or finding that some 70 jobs in the geodetic administration are too much to inform certain procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u22	Any other ministers or ministers would like to respond to a colleague named Pozsonchev? Would you like to ask a supplementary question? Please, colleague of Pozsonchev, two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I'm guessing no one has shaken this score too much, which is tragic for Hungarian nationality. However, she received the Clofuto from Slovenia because of her national policy. If we could only produce a percentage like, say, in Serbia or in Croatia, because they have a 20% drop. So I don't think anything happened, and I don't know why we're talking about regional development if they're actually poorer regions at the border. Also, this geodetic government thing is the province's poverty. I do not think we have the right to talk about regional development. You must see, Mr. Minister Kopač, also the situation - 40 kilometers away this new location from users, which doesn't matter. I mentioned earlier that there is no transport, no jobs. And these employees who are now going to the Murska Sobota stay for a while, but later they won't be able to make it that far. That's one. Second, if they retire, they will choose, not from the Lendu congregation, but from the environment. So actually my proposal is to wait for the reorganisation, agree there on the ground and then act, because otherwise you will make a very, very big mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u25	Thank you very much. If I understood correctly, the questions were actually two, but only one of them was meant for me. And if I may just explain this for a moment. You know, we found ourselves between two millstones. On the one hand, the requirement of the finance minister or the general budgetary situation after the rationalisation of the state administration is, after all, the expectations of the electorate and the electorate are such that we will do something in this area. And when we try to do that, we get, like, criticisms like this, when you stop individual jobs that are too much, and this does not contribute to regional development. I think that looking at things, as if there are public services or services paid from the budget, is then assured that this is not the right view and that, of course, things need to be done with a sense of jobs, but this must certainly not be a condition for this or some red light for the reorganisation of the state administration at all. Our ambition is, the ambition of this government, of all ministries, not just what I am leading, to rationalise the state administration and to make it as effective as possible. And the introduction of new technologies, individual information procedures, of course means that some work is no longer necessary. However, we cannot accept that then certain jobs would still be paid simply for the sake of peace in the house. We, believe me, are very careful to do these reorganisation procedures because we understand that these are sensitive things, but we would not want the reorganisation procedures to stop just so that we don't get these perceptions if we take some sort of job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u26	Thank you very much. My colleague Tisovic is not, nor is my colleague Puksic, so I give the floor to my fellow Master to seek the question of a letter to the Minister of Health. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u27	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary-General of the Government. I raise an oral question to the Minister of Health. At the end of April, the results of an open health survey conducted by Ninamedia in February following an order from the Medical Chamber, the Medical Society and the Medical and Dental Union were presented in public. Almost half of those polled seem to be the biggest problem of the waiting period, so the availability of health services is an important measure of quality and efficiency of the health system. Therefore, I think it makes sense to draw attention to the problem associated with the organization of a dental service on call. If you call on Saturday morning, afternoon, pardon, you call the Celje urgent, which is the closest part of Kozjansk, you will be told that you can find first aid at the on-call dentist on Sunday morning and if you ask what to do until then, they will send you to Ljubljana to Kotnikov. The Maribor dental service also works on Sundays and holidays from 8 a.m. to 13 p.m. on Saturdays from 7. to 11.30 p.m. For a man with a strong toothache, every hour is an eternity, so I doubt he's taking it with understanding. I therefore ask: What led the Ministry of Health in determining the working time of the dental service? And: Are there changes in the plan? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u28	Please, Minister of Health. Dr. Keber.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u29	Your Honor. Perhaps you should say that in dental care there is no emergency situation that would require a 24-hour presence of a doctor, a dentist, and that the pain certainly does not judge - despite the fact that there is probably no one among us who does not know how uncomfortable it is, but it is not an emergency. Let me mention that toothache is usually prepared for more time, mostly for weeks. During this time, the citizen must come to the realization that he will have to visit the dentist sooner rather than later. Let me also say that even that day usually does not happen in the middle of the night, and if it happens in the middle of the night, the dentist’s intervention, whatever it is, does not eliminate the pain of the next few hours. At the same time, there are medicines for the relief of pain from tablets and in very severe cases also injections which the citizen can naturally receive with general medical care. Let me add something else - the help that is available in the morning on Saturdays and Sundays or during holidays is relatively well provided. It's not 24-hour, but it's good dental coverage during the holidays and the workers. If we wanted to get on duty in the afternoon and at night on Saturdays and Sundays, we would need a very large number of additional duty stations distributed throughout the country, which would mean that if you multiplied each duty station by factor 5, we could also find that there would be extremely high costs for very small numbers of people looking for help. Help in the nighttime too - I know two locations where this help is possible. This is in Ljubljana and Velenj. They have decided to help the congregation themselves, and they are also paying for this help to their natives. We believe, despite the fact that this may sound insufficient support for citizens, that we have no intention of covering a 24-hour dental service in the future. I would like to remind you that in medicine there are very great needs, very great reasons for pain. Unfortunately, there are great reasons for waiting, so we think that the decision on what type of dental supervision and assistance is proportionate to the size of the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u30	Complementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u31	Thank you. Slovenia is a signatory to the European Social Charter and has committed itself to protecting individual rights in the protection of health, and says in recital 11, "everyone has the right to make use of all the possibilities that enable him to enjoy the highest attainable standard of health." I understand your explanation in the part where you explained to me how as Minister of Health you understand the magnitude of the problem compared to other health problems. However, I believe that the State must also write a report on this Council of Europe as to how the basic provisions have been implemented and, among other things, must report on the conditions under which different health services are available throughout the country and the geographical distribution of health services. I find that in two places in Slovenia this is possible. So what I wanted to point out is that, however, if this is at the level of primary health care and this is at the level of the local community, probably the Ministry of Health has every opportunity to influence the local community to do something about these things, which obviously affect citizens and citizens, they also regulate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u33	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the moment when the problem of accessibility to individual health rights is extended to another accessibility, then, of course, completely on the same line also in the preparing white book, which you will get somehow in 14 days on your desks, you will see that we are dealing with a real problem of greater accessibility. However, let me point out that various types of accessibility, some of which have objective grounds, ultimately have grounds in the capacity of the country to ensure a sufficient range of health rights without waiting, but that many of these reasons are not only objective, but also subjective health weaknesses that we want to eliminate and I hope that we have done some of them. I just want to mention that the special problem that you mentioned is tooth pain, however each individual suffering is most important for the one who experiences it, and it is not in the first place among the priorities. The underlying reason is a tremendous cost for any benefit they might have. That is why I would like to say: a citizen with pain has the opportunity to relieve his health care pain 24 hours a day. But the dental problem to solve at night, so far we have not decided that it would be possible, due to the huge and disproportionate costs that would arise in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. My colleague Diaca wants to ask the Minister for the Environment. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u35	Thank you for your word. Dear ministers, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I refer the question to the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy, Mr Kopač. In the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters, Official Gazette 44/02, point 4.1.3 - reptiles, implants, penetratings in the last sentence also states: "As the list of terrestrial beaches has already been drawn up, a cadastral, strategy and programme of protection against terrestrial beaches must be developed and implemented in the coming period. So I'm wondering, how far are you going with this? Is it a cadaster, a strategy? And: When will this start? I come from an area where the earth’s beaches are a serious problem and some have been threatening housing and economic buildings for years. The specific question concerns the so-called Macesnik beach in Podolševk nad Solčava. Despite many years of rehabilitation, the plaza has not been stopped. At some points in the last six months, earth’s material is expected to advance by as much as 34 meters, and so is the part of the beach that has been resting so far. Civil protection has drawn up a plan to protect and rescue people and property in Solčava. It also foresees the evacuation of people and locations to which, in the event of the worst, the natives would withdraw and settle and be accepted by the end of May. There has been a lot of talk about the appropriateness of the method of recovery, as some experts believe that the reptiles are supposed to be irrigated and dry. Given the fact that terrestrial matter is moving, this is more than an on-the-spot issue, since a number of resources have already been used to rehabilitate this beach and the situation is obviously not improving. I also wonder: Does it hold information that, on an unaltered scale, the value of so-called beach drainage has increased by more than three times? At the same time, I ask: When do you think the beach will be completely healed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u36	Thank you. Minister of the Environment Mag. Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u37	Thank you for your word. The implementation of the national programme mentioned in the introduction of your question is the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence. However, with regard to the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy, I can tell you two new developments in this area. One is that we are currently preparing a spatial development strategy to be adopted by the National Assembly under the Space Regulation Act which entered into force on 1 January this year, and there is a spatial policy envisaged for all potential beaches. The other news is that it is right now in inter-resort coordination in the government, which means that in what week, two of you will be here, a proposal for a law on the rehabilitation of natural disasters. [[This is the system law that you Members have asked of us many times, both when the problem of drought arose here and on other occasions.]] . Well, as far as the cadastre of reptiles is concerned, of course, it has existed for a long time and is also taken into account in all spatial interventions or spatial planning where the state gives its consent to the municipalities to amend their planning acts. Your particular question was about Macesnik's beach. I have to say here, we're not as lucky as the state. In fact, the rehabilitation of this beach was in the first round or, in short, the first rehabilitation of this beach was not technically the most effective or successful. And then there was a problem with this land that was not approved by one of the affected farmers, Mr. Krivec. [[This happened in 2001]] , and this opposition had to lead to realization in the end or, in short, we had to bring it all together to the point that the court had appointed a judicial executioner who could enter this land and begin with the rehabilitation. Then we also prepared a very specific program - I'm running out of time, I heard a beep. We have also prepared a complementary construction plan, a technical detail of the implementation of the channels at the farm's economic facility, and sent it to Mr Krivac's lawyer on 3 April this year. Until today it has not been possible to reach agreement with the owner of the economic facility; it is a silo which is a black construction and which this farmer does not allow to be demolished in any way, and this would be necessary because of certain remedial works. Well, given that the results of the measurements show that the beach is on the move, it is necessary to continue with the beach-fixing parts, as set out in the government programme, and so we will go on the ground and do so. What's scheduled for this year? Just for a little while. Maintenance of already implemented measures amounting to 78 million tolars, the implementation of emergency works to establish a beach amounting to 130 million tolars, the preparation of a site plan amounting to 45 million tolars, the cost of engineering of the expert committee and external associates amounting to 15 million tolars and the 2002 commitment amounting to 100 million 516 thousand tolars. That's what we're gonna do this year. But it is true, as you mentioned, that the beach is extremely demanding and that it is not yet clear when we will be able to stop it. This is also the answer to your very specific question when it will be remedied. We can't give that answer right now, but we'll certainly try to stop it from moving. In view of our experience so far, we are not sure that this will work very quickly. So this is going to be one big problem in the future, and our only happiness in the accident is that it does move steadily, but relatively slowly, so that events are somehow predictable or controlled at least once. But the fact is, in my opinion, it is the most difficult of all the beaches we have in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Complementary question. Please, my friend Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. I agree with you that this is one of the more difficult beaches in Slovenia, because some also submit estimates that in the event of a disaster this matter would be greater than the beach under Logo below Mangart. Thus, the evacuation plan, at least according to my information, foresees a very rapid evacuation of the people. I wonder, who will take over in the event of this disaster - given that since 1994 this matter has already been taking on responsibility? A lot of resources have been put in there, and I think it needs to be resolved. Because if it blows this Solčava Valley, we can talk about the Logar Valley as in that song there by the lake - the island in the middle of the lake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u40	Would you like to provide an additional explanation? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u41	Otherwise, for all the efforts made by the predecessors since 1994, I can't say anything more precise right now, but I can say that the ministry has been doing its best to stop the performers. The Ministry was not satisfied with the professional work of the original contractor, so it demanded that it be selected and selected by another contractor. So far, the contractor, who was also likely to be involved in an important business, did not wish to withdraw from the construction site. We had a problem with that. Now we have been blocked for two years because of this private owner who does not allow interference with this black construction, so it is a web of unfortunate circumstances where individuals can block a faster state reaction by their actions. However, as far as the state's reactions are concerned, I must say that, in my view, an accessible review of past events has been kept up to date, as far as the situation has been concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u42	Let's move on with the questions. Colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič wants to ask the Minister of the Environment a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Otherwise, we would also have a question for the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Food, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u44	He's excused.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u45	Absent, excused. [[...]] Nevertheless, I will ask my oral question. Perhaps Mr. Secretary Dirt will be able to tell me something. We also sent a written question to the environment and space on the theme of water resources. Last week in May, this week, it's forest week. To this end, I ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food: How can it be that in the last few years individuals in Slovenia have carried out unprotected and very often illicit holosects of forests, despite the adoption of a national forest development programme in Slovenia in 1996? The geese of the forest represents irreparable damage for both the plant and the animal world in the cut area. Water resources are also at risk. The entire natural system is collapsing. The damage is so double: in nature and material damage caused by other forest and land owners, roads are destroyed, residential houses are threatened and so on. The owners, however, are completely powerless because the cuts are made in most cases overnight. This is also an illegal sale of timber. I am asking the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, given that budget resources for the provided works of forestry services are declining annually, thus reducing the number of employees detected by such interventions. How will you regulate the operation of these services if we do not have enough money for our existence to operate in the area of forest and agricultural protection? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u47	If I understand correctly, the question was addressed to the Minister for Agriculture. The nuclei you're talking about, unfortunately, we don't have any data. This is an inspection for forestry at the Ministry of Agriculture. Our ministry is involved in forest management at the level of forest planning. We give our consent to the nature protection agency as the nature protection service gives its consent to the ten-year forest management plans. We do this regularly and, of course, we also take into account all the professional sources of nature protection. I must say that in this as conservatives or those who are not enthusiastic about excessive cutting, sometimes the sidelines look at us, but the professional points of nature protection are only to be taken into account. As far as cutting planning is concerned, I am talking about legal cuts, I think there is no reason for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Ministry of the Environment, Space and Energy to do this without problems. It is possible, however, that there is some problem with the Holocaust you mentioned, but there I am answering your question, unfortunately, I cannot give it to you, but you will point it to my colleague Booth, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u48	Okay, thank you very much. Would you like to ask the Minister of the Environment a further question?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u49	Yeah. I would like to thank you for this answer, but there are quite a lot of goloseks in Slovenia, not just something, and these are not allowed goloseks. However, I would ask that the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food answer my oral question in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u50	Okay. Your question will be communicated to the Minister and he is obliged to answer it. Comrade Rokavec will ask the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Information Society. Please, buddy Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u51	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister and Ministers and colleagues and fellow Members! I refer the first question to the Minister of Economy, Mrs Tei Petrin. On Wednesday, 7 May, under the title "Ninewards in Petrol, Mercator and Kolinski", a proposal was published. Indeed, following this proposal for the distribution of prizes to members of the supervisory councils, awards of 85.2 million tolars in Petrol, Mercator of 73.5 million tolars and in Kolinska of 49.8 million tolars. I would like to ask: Does the government agree with the current model of awarding to members of the supervisory boards in companies? Of course, even as a result of this year’s publications and proposals for the distribution of this profit to members of the supervisory councils that they have submitted to the congregations for decision or some congregations have already been. On the basis of that Government or the competent ministries, are they preparing the necessary changes and, if so, in which direction? In my opinion, the division of such a large cake to the members of the Supervisory Boards is totally unacceptable. Especially in the case of the fact that a certain circle of members of the supervisory boards revolves around in a rotating circle as members of several supervisory boards. In particular, the question arises, for example, in commercial companies, such as Mercator. How is it possible that the managers of this company, in the negotiations with the social partners, were not prepared to draw up a set of 230 tolls for an extra hour of Sunday work in order to reach an appropriate compromise. Isn't that absurd? And another question to the Minister for the Information Society. We also read in the week Mladina that the gross monthly salary of the Director of Post Slovenia, Mr Alfonso Podgorica, is 2 million 96 thousand tolars, which was published on 19.5.2003. And if this salary is at this level, I also ask the Minister: How does it go beyond 100% of the salaries of government officials or managers in public enterprises in the Republic of Slovenia? For this reason, I also ask: Is the Post of Slovenia not covered by the Government's Regulation on the salaries of managers in state-owned public enterprises and whose salaries must not exceed 90% of the Minister's salary? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u52	Thank you. Dr. Petrinova, the Minister of Economy will be the first to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u53	Dear Members! Thank you for asking. I have to base my answer on - I think what legislation is in force. On this basis, these matters are currently taking place. Under the applicable legislation, members of the Supervisory Board shall be guaranteed payment for their work and participation in profits, which shall be determined by the statute or by the Assembly. The payment must be in an appropriate manner with respect to the task of the members of the Supervisory Board and the financial positions of the company. If we go to this question of the proposed awards, this would be the order of course; first, it will be decided by the shareholders, these are the owners of the company and, of course, there are possible counter-proposals and also counter-claims by each shareholder if it disagrees with the proposed amount. We will monitor the results of the current model of payment and, on the basis of the conclusions of the Assembly on these points, will also, of course, draw on how to proceed. That is, if it turns out that the executive model of the awards to members of the Supervisory Board has a negative impact on the competitiveness of the economy or economic growth, because also excessions - I think - have a negative impact, the government will propose appropriate measures that could also include legislative changes. I think it will have to go so far as to change certain changes in the GNI and, of course, in the framework of tax laws. Because things are taking place under this current legislation. If there were big excesses, then we would suggest some changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members, Mr President-in-Office. The Republic of Slovenia is certainly an economic company and the salaries of the Director-General, the corresponding rights and obligations are defined by a contract of employment, which is also based on a government decision on recommendations to representatives of the Republic of Slovenia in supervisory boards of companies where the majority owner of the Republic of Slovenia is in the process of concluding contracts of employment. On the date of entry into force of this Treaty 23.9.2002, the basic salary without an allowance for working time and taking into account multiples 6 amounted to gross SIT 1,435 thousand. Of course, the data, I would say, surprised us somewhat about the level of wages, so we have already asked the Post of Slovenia Supervisory Board to verify the compliance of the provisions on the employment of the Director-General with the Government's decision on the criteria to be taken into account when concluding employment contracts. Surely, as far as - and I believe that there are excesses - these matters will be aligned with the recommendations made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask a supplementary question? Comrade Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u57	In fact, the supplementary question follows both the questions I have referred to previously and also the two ministers. It is only that I expect that, in due course, the ministries in question will analyse and act on this issue. I believe that the events following this year, when the law provides for the publication by the Supervisory Council of a public notice to propose profits to members of the Supervisory Boards, may for the first time have revealed the extent to which the congregations also determine profits. Here there may be another danger, namely that a certain circle may try to save a certain amount for the distribution of profits over the year, even at the expense of a lower payment of wages or a lower payment of personal income of other employees and, of course, could also give rise to higher income. I believe that in this particular case some companies will probably not have any of the profits of the company that they all created together. It is true that we now have property that is the key to the actual definition of criteria and we also have a market system. We do know, however, that these imbalances, which are currently present, are so large and so sensitive that action is actually needed. Second. I also expect the Ministry of Information Society to actually verify this information or to act as quickly as possible in the event of this imbalance in these two data. That is, the data I have just heard from the Minister and the data that was published in the Youth Week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u58	Any of you guys want to fill in an explanation? [[No, no, ……]] Colleague Majda Zupan is not, nor is colleague Jerovska, and colleague Špindler is absent, colleague Mamić, colleague Rupar. He now has the floor of his colleague Kontič, who wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture, who is justly absent, and will ask the Minister of Health who should be present. I'm calling the Minister of Health in the hall. With your permission, Comrade Kontic, we'll wait a second or two. I'm asking the Minister of Health to come to the hall. He's already here. Just a little patience, Comrade Kontic, for the minister to occupy the city. Please, Comrade Kontic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers and ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues of coalition parties, except for two exceptions! I'll ask you two questions. First Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Since he's not here, I expect his written answer. The question was heard a while ago, so I think the answer could be written to him. The question was how local communities should obtain records, that is, lists of dogs and their owners for their needs. At that time, the Minister was assured that this could be achieved by means of veterinary administrations. Nevertheless, things are in place and local communities cannot get these lists. So I ask the Minister: How do I get to these lists? The second question is addressed to the Minister of Health [[And this was set up years ago.]] . On 30 May 2000, the National Health Programme of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted by the National Assembly until 2004, namely "Health for all until 2004". The year 2004 is at the door and the national programme is not realized as we imagined when we adopted it. It also states in Chapter 5 that they will operate in all health areas during the planned period and will establish units of the Health Care Institute for Posavje, Zasavje, Notranjska, Ptuj and Velenje. I would like to know when the content of this article will be realized, given that 2004 is already quite close, as I have already said. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u60	Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u61	Dear Mr President, honourable Mr Kontic! It is understandable that the plans and not only the laws approved by Parliament are adopted with the utmost seriousness. It is also understandable and well known that we cannot realize everything. In the area of health, I could count - and thus perhaps unwarrantedly, in the absence of a financial minister, I would lobby for a better investment policy because this Parliament has already made a lot of commitments in the field of investment in health. If I move on to the health care plan, this plan also includes some proposals, requests, wishes for which the composers have already proposed - in particular yours was the proposal of Members in Parliament, if I am well informed - for which there was an agreement that the pace of time, when and how they would be applied would still have to be examined. At that time, no clear argument was reached by local instigators as to why four or five new units should be rushed. On the health policy side, there are the following arguments on the Ministry of Health's side, if you will, which dictate the pace of introduction. The entire public health system is extremely modestly funded. Despite this modest funding - as you well know, this system must therefore be financed even by private sector work, which in fact reduces its availability to the public sector. However, we already have one of the richest networks in Europe. We have as many as nine health care institutions and a central institution in Ljubljana, for which, according to our knowledge, we do not find a comparison in Europe about such a partisan or, if you want me to say, fragmented organisation. In the area of public health, we analyse the causes, reasons and propose measures to improve public health, from epidemiological and other causes to measures to address risk factors and promote health. Of course, this activity does not necessarily require that we have a unit exposed to neighbouring Velenje in addition to the health care facility in Celje. The same applies to four or five more units proposed in this plan. Allow me to say, with the amount of money available, with the rebalans, that this money must be further reduced, so that even in the current amount, with the quantity if I express the number of people employed in these units, it would mean the establishment of four more, five more units, simply diluting the existing money into so many more locations. This would not mean new money, it would mean taking away existing institutions of both human resources and adequate financial resources and distributing them to several locations in Slovenia. Therefore, we believe that in the healthcare plan that we are preparing and will continue the plan by 2004 for the next six, perhaps even for the next ten years, we will, of course, have to answer the question or re-examine this question and answer it. At this point, I do not want to say that we have given up those locations that the plan has proposed, but that we do not see a real possibility of setting them up quickly right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Then you want to ask a supplementary question?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u63	Thank you very much. As has already been established today, where we have the option of local communities, we do this ourselves and also provide 24-hour dental duty when we have this opportunity to do it ourselves. Well, that's not how it works with these things. Even if we provide space, this refusal approach by the Ministry, despite the fact that it is enshrined in the national programme, is the most important and there is nothing that can be done. I suggest, however, that you do not prepare a national programme for the next period because you do not respect it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u64	Good. Let's move on with the questions. The next one is my colleague, Chebulj. He will also ask the Minister of the Environment, who has been with us until now, and now I ask him to return to the Chamber. The next question will be asked by counterpart Bevk to the Minister for the Environment, and will be completed by counterpart Montenegro with a question to the Minister for the Information Society. Thank you, Minister, for coming back to the hall, and now he has the word of his colleague, Chebulj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister and respected ministers. I would like to ask Mr Kopač a question. On 9.5.2002, the Ministry of Environment and Space issued a building permit to an investor, Aerodrome Ljubljana, Brnik, for the construction of a small aviation hangar with an external arrangement and for the expansion of an airport platform in the centre of the General Aviation. The municipality of Cerklje in Gorenjska complained within a legal period of time of the building permit, as the municipal decree on municipal contributions to the municipality of Cerklje in Gorenjska was not taken into account in the procedure for the issue of the building permit. The Administrative Court replied that the Ministry of the Environment and Space procedure had been properly guided. On the basis of the reply of the administrative court, the municipality of Cerklje in Gorenjska complained to the Supreme Court. To this day the congregation of Cerklje has not received the answer of the Supreme Court. On 27.3.2003, the Ministry of Environment and Space and Energy, which is once again a new address, a sector for intervention in the premises and construction of public buildings, issued a new building permit decision with a new investor - the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a service of common services. The change in the building permit was not given to the congregation of Cerklje, but only on the basis of the request of the congregation of Cerklje did we receive a change in the building permit. Then the congregation of Cerklje again complained about the procedure for issuing the amendment of the building permit. To date, however, the Municipality of Cerklje has not received the required answer either from the administrative or from the Supreme Court. The municipality of Cerklje in Gorenjska is convinced that the building permits issued are not valid because they are issued on the basis of the old building law. And as long as it is time for a complaint of a building permit to be issued, it is not possible to claim that the building permit is legally valid at that time. At least at the time of the complaint concerning the decision to amend the building permit. These are the statements of investors: the governments and airports of Brnik. I ask the competent ministry, or the competent minister, Janez Kopač, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: Why did the Ministry of Environment and Space not take into account the decree on the municipal contribution of the municipality of Cerklje to Gorenjska? Do you think the hanger government is of real national importance? And if so, after your decision and statements, I propose that Minister Kopač propose to amend all laws that would not prescribe municipal contributions to our citizens, because in the case of a hanger, a government hanger, citizens of Slovenia are in a subordinate position or an unequal position. In short, it is a violation of constitutional rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u66	Please, Mag. The digger, the minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u67	Thank you very much. You asked more questions. Why, first of all, if I understand why it's even being built, if the building permit isn't yet legal? Indeed, the building permit is not legally binding, but it can be built under existing legislation once the building permit is complete. This means that a second stage complaint has been resolved. In this case, the complaint was resolved even at the third stage, i.e. in the administrative court. The Administrative Court gave the Ministry the right to issue a building permit. It is true, however, that the appeal of the Municipality of Cerklje in Gorenjska went to the Supreme Court, which will be resolved when it does. But once again, the difference between finality and jurisdiction is that after completion it can be built completely. However, it is true that the investor builds on his own risk if the jurisdiction is not identical to the finality. As regards the application of the provisions of the Law or the Decision on the municipal contribution of the Municipality of Cerklje, it should be said that when assessing whether a municipal contribution must be paid before the issue of the building permit, account should be taken of the fact that the facility is public infrastructure. The Aviation Act provides that the hanger is an object of public infrastructure. However, public infrastructure facilities are not subject to a municipal contribution under the provisions of the Building Lands Act. When this building permit was issued, the building land law was still in force. It's no longer valid. Undoubtedly, no payment was necessary on the basis of the then applicable arrangements for this municipal contribution. The Hangar is defined as an object of State importance already in the aviation law itself, or even in the Regulation on the introduction and application of the uniform classification of types of facilities and the definition of sites of State importance, which was issued earlier this year under the Act on the regulation of premises. In short, if I am quite short: the building permit was issued entirely in accordance with the applicable rules, the municipal contribution did not have to be paid, it can be built because the building permit is final. This decision, I believe you do not like it, but according to the existing rules it is completely normal and feasible in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u68	Complementary question, Comrade onion? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary! That is to say, you claim that this building permit and the modification of the building permit were perfectly legal. Okay. Then we'll have to prove this legally that you did the wrong thing here. This is the second question: Do you think that in this case the citizens of Slovenia are not in some way in an unequal situation? Any citizen who is also an investor also claims that the airport is an investor, normally, everyone is an investor, but must take his taxes to both the state and the municipality. In this case, the congregation. Don't you think that in an unequal situation, citizens are against a profitable economically strong society? A profitable economically strong company that ensures that the hangar will be marketed. It is not a non-profit organization, it is not a social institution, it is not a hangar or garage for servicing ambulances, fire trucks, etc. This is a profitable strong economic organisation. I personally have absolutely nothing against the development of the airport. You may also be aware that I support all activities that are legal and legal. This is only about these issues of legality and legality of the building permit. In this case, the citizens of Slovenia are not handicapped to an entity which, as I said, is an economically strong society that could introduce its taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u70	Is there anything else you'd like to explain? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I'm going to point out again because it's been questioned again. The building permit for the construction of this hangar shall be definitive and enforceable in accordance with the rules. There's no problem with the realisation of the building itself. However, as regards the principle question whether it is right not to pay a municipal contribution from public infrastructure facilities - I understood this as a question - whether it is a hangar or a highway or a tosteber for a high voltage cable or something else, which falls within the category of so-called public infrastructure, I must say that in my opinion it is absolutely right not to pay a municipal contribution to such facilities. Not only does it say so in marriage, but it also says by content, if we look at what a municipal contribution is. The municipal contribution is to pay the municipality to increase the amount of infrastructure built by the municipality and will be necessary due to some such investment. If we are talking about public infrastructure facilities, of course, these are not houses that would be built, for example, by the state and have an additional connection to draining contaminated water or a pipeline connection, or something that is all investments, in principle, within the municipal jurisdiction. We are talking about facilities that improve the state of public infrastructure. This hangar, of course, will not have any additional burdens or demands on the congregation, in addition to what already exists there. Therefore, the payment of such a municipal contribution would be a kind of monopoly tax on the location. It is clear that the public infrastructure facility is not able - at least not - to set up anywhere else than in the territory of the municipality of Cerklje in Gorenjska, because the airport of Brnik is in the territory of the municipality of Cerkje in Gorenjska. Therefore, I think it is appropriate that the construction of public infrastructure facilities is not paid for by a municipal contribution; not only is this already enshrined in the law and this has been adopted by this Parliament, and it has now been accepted, recently, in this mandate again, in addition to the fact that this was already in force in the previous law, but I think it is also appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Comrade Bevk wants to ask the Minister of the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u73	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! At the end of February this year, at the initiative of a group of owners of denationalised dwellings, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia repealed certain provisions of the Housing Act and the decree on the methodology for the design of rents in non-profit dwellings. The Constitutional Decision constitutes an intervention into existing leases also for dwellings owned by Slovenian municipalities, where it prescribes the same higher value of the point than one of the elements for the calculation of non-profit rents for renters who had contracts concluded before 23.3.2000, when the aforementioned decree entered into force. This means 37% increase in non-profit rents. The Constitutional Court excluded cases of so-called social housing from the promotion and referred in explanation to Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states, "Slovenia is a legal and social state". Since the Constitutional Court does not explain its decisions, the implementation of the Constitutional Decision raises the question of who are the tenants who are renting apartments under the social protection rules and the value of the point does not change. At the end of March, the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy sent a letter to all Slovene municipalities stating that [[Quote]] "to municipalities, owners of non-profit dwellings who will assess in their environment that, according to the material possibilities of renters, it is possible to increase rents to the full, they propose to increase non-profit rents gradually". The Ministry therefore proposes to the municipalities a gradual increase in non-profit rents, which is of course good. However, since the Ministry's instructions to the Slovenian municipalities are unclear, some have already sent the renters with 37% increase in non-profit rents and most municipalities have not yet responded to the Constitutional Court's decision with such a radical increase, Minister Mag. I ask the digger: Will the Ministry send instructions to the municipalities regarding the implementation of a constitutional decision in the work relating to renting apartments under social protection rules? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u74	Minister Mag. Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u75	Thank you very much. As you mentioned, we have already sent an explanation, but so far I have not had a response to tell me that this explanation has not really been sufficient. If that's the case, then we can fix it. If, at least in this question or the answer to this question, your questions are quite clear, the rules that speak of renting beneficiaries under social rules speak of if I say this in an understandable way that those owners of non-profit apartments, whether they are denationalised or municipalities, or whether they are companies that have people in their non-profit apartments who would otherwise be entitled to a social apartment, must not raise the non-profit rent to the level permitted by the provision of the Constitutional Court. This is the decision of the Constitutional Court. This means that from the category of about 70,000 people to whom the decision and 70,000 tenants in non-profit apartments are actually excluded from this circle, I will now say very well, perhaps between five and ten thousand tens of tens of tens of tens of tens of tens of tens of tens of tens of tens of tens of tens of them. These are the exceptions provided for by the Constitutional Court. Otherwise, as you mentioned before, we told the congregations to consider whether the increase in rents would go to the maximum possible limit. This limit is not 37 percent, 37 percent on average, since rent will potentially rise in denationalized apartments by almost 50 percent, in other non-profit dwellings, and in substantially less than 37 percent on behalf of municipalities and businesses. The average is 37. So I hope that some of the congregations did not really go up by exactly 37 percent. Then that would be a misunderstanding. This rise certainly suggests that it is gradual. The municipalities, on the one hand, of the recipient of non-profit rentals, on the other hand as owners of non-profit apartments, on the third hand as payment of subsidies to renters in non-profit apartments, should look at the pros and cons and make this decision of the Constitutional Court, with consideration over time, to the extent they deem appropriate, since the municipalities are ultimately responsible for this part of social policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask a further question, colleague Bevk?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u77	Thank you so much for saying that. I know at least two Slovene municipalities, i.e. the municipalities Idrija and Cerkno, which have radically increased rents for all those who rent a municipal apartment. That is why I think it would be right for the Ministry to give more clear instructions to the Slovenian municipalities on how to treat these social housing or social protection regulations, so that in fact some of the tenants who are entitled to it can pay smaller non-profit rents. In addition to these two municipalities, I think we would find among the 200 Slovene municipalities one that has so radically increased the rent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u78	Thank you very much. With the answer of the Minister for the Information Society to the question of Collegiate Montenegro, we will also conclude our work today. Please, first the question, then the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u79	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues! Today I have asked you a question, Your Honor Minister Dr. Gantar. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Information Society recently adopted the strategy of the Republic of Slovenia in the information society. Today, I have decided to raise a question of this very interesting subject, not because of the procedures and ways in which this strategy is being amended and adopted, but especially because I would like to point out to Parliament and Parliament that this strategy has been adopted at one of the meetings and it would be good to discuss it and its implementation on the national assembly's home committees. This topic is important and interesting for all, but it represents a response to the E-Europe 2003 Action Plan, which has emerged to achieve the Lisbon Council's objectives of dynamic development on knowledge-based economy. The main objectives of the strategy resulting from this action plan are: cheaper, faster and safer internet, investing in people and knowledge, promoting the use of the Internet. The analyses have shown that general libraries are the most used existing forms of publicly available Internet points. It is good to know that the new library law also defines general libraries as information centres of local communities. Today in Europe there are about 60 million people or 18% of the population who are poor or at the edge of poverty. In our country, much less than 10%. This strategy rightly notes that poverty poses a particular threat to children, young people, the elderly, the unemployed and the single parent families. In the strategy you state that in Slovenia we have 163 publicly registered points to the world web, which are mostly equipped with up to five computers. You also note that these public access points do not allow for real work or distance education, but that they can be used to browse the Internet. These points are very much wanted and are mostly occupied. As suitable locations for these points, you propose the use of premises in public, cultural and educational institutions and post offices where space and equipment are not used optimally or throughout the day. You are planning annual equipment for 20 new cities. I ask you: Do you foresee an action plan or do you think that the equipment of 20 new cities in Slovenia is sufficient, given that we have some locations and some cities that are outside the wider and larger centres in Slovenia, which do not have access to telephone connections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u80	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking, too. If I start all over. Of course, we believe that 20 new public access points a year are not enough, but we have so much resources that we can reach, at least this year. As far as the library is concerned. It should be said that the Ministry of Information Society, both in its strategy and in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, recognises libraries as important multidisciplinary public access points by including and upgrading them with the provision of digital content of information of a public nature. The strategic objectives of the Ministry in relation to librarianism are as follows. Firstly, the inclusion of libraries in the concept and the network of public access points. Second, digitization of content. Thirdly, the promotion of the profession of media informants. This year, we signed an agreement or agreement with the Minister for Culture to participate in the e-Library project. We have also just prepared a call for the co-financing of information and communication technologies in libraries. The subject of the invitation to tender will be the purchase of this technology, the modernisation of the automation of the borrowing of materials, the purchase of ICT equipment for the introduction of the bookcase and so on. This year's tender is worth 90 million tolars, with MID giving 30 million tolars. We will certainly continue these projects. How fast they will take place depends, above all, on the resources that we will have at our disposal in the coming years. If I finish. Libraries are one of the most important public access points to the Internet in addition to schools and mail. Their implementation, and their transformation into this will take place in accordance with the financial possibilities we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u82	Colleague of Montenegro, supplemental question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u83	Thank you very much. It is true that equipping these new publicly accessible places depends on finance, but 20 publicly accessible places a year is certainly not enough. I think it would certainly be necessary to do something on this segment and see if, through rationalisation in other programmes, where there is no possibility to be implemented this year, you can obtain funds for additional public access points. I would like to know what you plan to do with information about public access, which is not in electronic form, which is only available in classical form. In what way do you foresee accessibility to this information of a public nature? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u84	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u85	I just want to say that I don't have any concrete information in front of me. Over the last two years, I think we've increased by almost 100% the number of public access points. We have been in the background in Europe before, and today we are approaching the average. In addition, it should be added that certain publicly accessible Internet sites are being implemented and are also operating outside the public sector. So say Telekom and some others. Thus, there are more public access points, not only those funded by the Ministry of Information Society or other ministries. With regard to these public access points, it should be pointed out that the purchase of information and communication equipment and computers and similar matters is not even the most important cost, most often in some libraries it is important to ensure an appropriate bandwidth allowing high data speed if these accessible points are used by a larger number of people. In particular, I mentioned, when you asked me now, the issue of content. This issue of content is related to the so-called digitisation of classical resources, and we at the Ministry are aware of this as an important problem, but unfortunately this is not only within the competence of the Ministry. The digitisation of content must also be provided by those with such content. I would mention here an extremely rich supply of content on Radio TV Slovenia and other media houses, which would allow digitisation to be accessible in very appropriate ways. We are currently dealing with a model that would also provide some kind of private and public partnership in this. It is not necessary for all of this to be financed by the State alone. As for libraries and bookkeeping materials and the material available to them within the Ministry of Culture, we are already working with the Ministry to come up with a programme that will allow for such digitisation of content.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-26-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. With your answer to my colleague's question, we will conclude the meeting today. We will suspend it until tomorrow, by 10 a.m., when the Prime Minister answers questions to the Members and Members. At 11 o'clock, we will move on to a proposal for a law amending the Act on Offences against Public Order and Peace, and at 12 o'clock and 5 o'clock on the proposal of the Housing Act. By 10:00 tomorrow, when we resume the meeting, I'm adjourning. Good evening to all of you.
