ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Have a good day. I begin the continuation of the 24th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings: Bogdan Barovič, Roberto Battelli, Stanislav Brenčič, Franc Čebulj, Andrei Fabjan, Ferry Horvat from 1300 hours to 2400 hours, Rudolf Petan, Aloise Peterle from 1300 hours to 3 p.m., Cyril Pucko is among us, Igor Štemberger from 3 p.m. and Jože Tanko from 4 p.m. Your Honor! We're moving to 2. POINT OF DAY AND RED - OTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE TRAINER ON PARALMENTAL INVESTIGATION. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Rules of Procedure Commission of the National Assembly. I give the floor to Mr Bojan Kontic, the representative of the applicants, to further explain the draft act. Mr. Kontic, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u2	Thank you very much! Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! On the proposal for amendments and the completion of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, we held our first general hearing at the previous meeting of the National Assembly. The amendments have been proposed by the Rules of Procedure Commission in its previous composition, so that the current procedure in the role of the proposer only continues. By amending the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, we clearly provide for the replacement of individual members of the Commission by alternate members. We have supplemented the existing amendment with an additional paragraph stating that each Member of the National Assembly has the right to look into the evidence collected in the investigation. In preparing the amendments and supplementing the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, we have taken into account the comments made by the legislative legal service and have supplemented the proposal by establishing that a member of the investigative commission should be a member of the same parliamentary group as a member of the investigative commission. The first and third paragraphs of the new Article 6a are merged into a single first paragraph. This has made it clearer to determine the rights and duties of a deputy member of the Commission of Inquiry in carrying out the parliamentary investigation and the evidence in the procedure. We have added a new Article 5a, in which we have eliminated possible uncertainties regarding the composition of the investigative commissions already in force, in order to ensure that the investigative commissions operating at the time of the implementation of these amendments and additions continue to work in the unaltered composition of the bodies so far. Two amendments were tabled by the New Slovenia parliamentary group, to which the proposer, i.e. the Commission, did not define them. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The Government has not authorised its representatives to this point and has not been declared for discussion. The draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure were considered by the Rules of Procedure Commission as the working body of the mother. Would you like to present the report of the Commission? He was in charge of Mr. Wolf. He's not among us. Since the Assembly held its first reading of the draft amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure at the 23rd meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. That is why we are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments to be led by the review of the amendments of 19.3.2003. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendments of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the amendments today at 4:30 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. At 10.40 a.m., we will move on to the third item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the proposed Real Estate Intermediation Act. So far, I thank you and we continue at 10.40 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u4	Your Honor! We're continuing our session. Between us, I welcome both representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're moving to 3. Period of the day - Second defensively proposed law on non-profit mediation. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mag. Janez Kopač, Minister for Environment and Space, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! This proposal has long been the subject of legislation. There was a lot of controversy. I think it's in a very coherent text, although there are still a few amendments ahead of you. The amended proposal has three systemic objectives: consumer protection, protection of public interest and concern for the further development of the profession in this area, as has already been the case in the first reading. Consumer protection is a central part of the law. The rules on safe and prudential management, which are to be taken into account by real estate companies and real estate intermediaries in their work specifically in the interests of consumer protection, are restrictions on the maximum authorised payment for intervention in the case of purchase or sale, with the possibility of further developing pricing criteria under the maximum allowable payment for intervention. This objective is followed by legal requirements regarding the conditions to be met by real estate companies. Public interest [[It's a second set.]] The law protects through a number of content sets. First, through the licensing of real estate intermediaries, through the provision of public records in the function of land and housing policy, through the market valuation of real estate and the analysis of developments in the real estate market, through the application of the principle of individual assessment of the market value of real estate and through supervision of the implementation of the law. Care for further development of the profession [[That's the third set.]] is expected as a result of the legal provisions on the general educational level of real estate intermediaries. It appears through the requirement of a professional examination, according to the system of complementary training, which we care about by complying with the law in the conduct of mediation operations. In the government, we estimate that any changes and additions made after the first examination of the law incorporated in the amended proposal are such as to pursue those objectives, with the government also supporting all amendments of the coalition parties to be decided today. These amendments by content ensure the necessary balance between the systemic objectives of the law and the necessary readiness for the future implementation of the law. Other amendments have been tabled, one on the side of the Social Democratic Party and - I think - six or seven on the side of New Slovenia. These governments don't support them. It assesses that it is not necessary to modify or reduce the percentage of the maximum allowable payment for intervention in order to avoid further interference with the relationship between real estate companies and insurance undertakings, so as not to penalise infringements otherwise, as already foreseen, that it is not necessary to derogate from the requirement that everyone who works as a real estate intermediary should carry out a professional examination. In particular, given the fact that it is taken into account - this is the proposal of the law - it is therefore already intended to take into account the re-examination of the already successfully acquired fundamental knowledge of the profession in the past. We also believe that there is no need to change the deadlines for sub-legislative acts, as proposed by amendments that we do not support. I therefore propose that you support the bill, including the amendments of the four groups of Members. But not those other amendments for those reasons. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u6	Thank you very much! The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Branko Janc, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u7	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. At its 39th meeting, on 13.3.2003, the Infrastructure Committee held a second reading of the proposal of the Real Estate Intermediation Act. Before that, a general discussion was already held at the national assembly. Representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Association of Real Estate Employment, the Information Exchange of Real Estate, the Association of Consumers of Slovenia and the Notary Chamber of Slovenia also participated in the meeting of the Committee in addition to the proposals for a bill and legal service. A written opinion was also forwarded to the proposed law by the Legal Service, which, in its opinion, drew attention to concerns regarding the solutions in Article 5 of the law on payment for intervention to Article 9, Article 27 and Article 31 as essential comments. The amendments were tabled by LDS Members, the United List, SLS and DeSUS and by Aloise Sok and Jože Tanko. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also tabled its amendments to individual amendments. In particular, the discussion highlighted the issue of a solution relating to the maximum authorised payment for intervention and payment for intervention in the event of the conclusion of a contract and withdrawal from the contract, the issue of a licence for the conduct of the transaction, the general conditions of the business of the real estate company and the drawing up of documents of administrative transactions and the composition of those documents. The Committee then adopted a series of additions to the LDS, the United List, the SLS and the DeSUS. He also accepted some amendments from Mr Aloiz Sok. On the proposal of the law itself, the Committee drafted its amendments, which were 24 and incorporated into the law. Therefore, we also propose that you continue to adopt some proposed amendments which regulate the individual articles editorially. We propose to the assembly that the amendment law also be adopted. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u8	Thank you very much! Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at the 23rd meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups. That is why we are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will be leading on the basis of the amendment review of 19.3.2003. I am putting in the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the SDS Group under 1, under the two four parliamentary groups of positions and under the 3 amendments of the New Slovenia Group. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Squirrel, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you, Vice President. I would just like to substantiate or further explain the amendment under point 2. The situation is a little unusual. I don't see any colleagues here who have tabled the amendments under points 1 and 3. Now I don't know if it makes sense to say why I don't support him, because I'm gonna talk to myself. So the situation isn't most pleasant. I would like to say that Article 5 is a very important article of this law. But it's absolutely not a key article. A key article and a lot of interest from fellow Members and colleagues at the committee meeting - I would like to say that the committee of my colleague Janca took a lot of time for this item of the agenda to be patient, sometimes somewhat confusing, but the product is good. So that here - in my opinion, the Committee has done a good job and, in fact, we have already opened the issue of so-called small estates at the Committee's own meeting. Those who have followed this law more closely have seen that Article 5 also speaks of the so-called commission. Although experts say the word "practice" is not the correct word, but if I may call it that. This height is determined by 4%. All I can say here is that I will not support the amendments that are lowering it. I myself have been one of the actors of the law in recent months. Otherwise, I did not formally propose that the law determine the height. I now support the government's decision that it is also in some way a public interest to determine the highest possible commission. I would like to base the amendment under point 2. In fact, in the first paragraph, we will add the text: "this restriction does not apply when the contractual value of the property is less than EUR 10,000 in the tolar equivalent". The fact is, - those who know the real estate area better - you know that in Slovenia there are many owners of smaller properties, smaller land, garages and other properties, especially in Ljubljana or in Koper, but in other parts of Slovenia, the values do not exceed 10,000 euros in this case. If the solution were to be as written, then it would have been that the maximum permitted commissions would have simply reached such a height that these so-called small estates would have a paradox, because the price would have been too low. That is why we have proposed an amendment which the government supports. It is said that the limit does not apply when the contractual value of the property is less than EUR 10,000 in Tolar equivalent. I am sure that by this amendment, Article 5 has gained clarity. As a matter of fact, the amendments under points 1 and 3 will not be supported. However, both of them were rejected by the committee when we discussed them. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you very much! From the amendments tabled to Article 5, I will support the amendment under Article 2, although I fundamentally do not agree with the mere dictatorship of the law and not the amendments that are written. I think that we are making a big mistake and that, if we are talking about Article 5, I do not want to spread it, because I also think that it is not the most important matter of this law - it is important to adopt the law for the sake of others, not because of it., This is the least important and the most wrong. It is wrong because we are talking about the market, we are talking about market regulation, we are talking about an economy based on this market, and we are making restrictions that are completely bureaucratic and completely unfounded. Unreasonable because the activity of real estate agencies or reselling - I will say more simply - and everything about it is not a matter that is obligatory for people. There's no obligation. That's not necessary. That's not what I couldn't get past. Each of us can sell and buy a house without using any real estate agent, agency or individual, which means it's on the market. If it is on the market, then let the market regulate this matter, not that we prescribe what it should be and what it should be. I object to protecting the consumer in this way. I think that in this way we are not protecting the consumer, but we are introducing some kind of regulation that should be introduced elsewhere in tax legislation, which should cover unjustifiably high profits if there is unduely high profits, and regulate this matter through tax legislation. That's not what this is about. We've excluded one segment from the whole society or the country. We've taken out a narrow segment and we're limiting it. We're setting something like I said, non-economic and non-market categories. Simply put, comparisons are often linked and compared with notary services. That's incomparable. Notary services are compulsory matters. I can't do it alone or my friend can't stamp my contract or authenticate my signature. The state prescribed who could do it. Also determine how many of these there are, give them a license and so on. While I can buy or sell a house or land without turning to anyone. I turn when I'm not able to do it myself or expect a better withdrawal from it. For that reason, of course, I also have to offer a reward to whoever is doing this. I'm not going to be much of a big deal about this. I think things are perfectly clear. With this we introduce, and this does not please me, but sadness - we only introduce in some segment, let's say why we don't have - just as a comparison - similar ideas in the mobile market. Why don't we have the exact same thing in a car salesman who's doing it on another segment? Why don't we have any ideas about how to handle this? Why do we not have the idea of interfering as a country with tourist agencies and determining how much they can earn or charge when selling me a trip anywhere? I could say very wide. I'm afraid of the next one. With this, I will not say introduce, but in some way help to come to some black market, to conclude secret or inaccuracies contracts, which results in two of you probably agreeing in extreme cases on higher fees that will go under the table and that this money will not be taxed and that the person who receives it will not be taxed. So the state will only lose. I think it's the wrong idea. But given that it is obvious that it will be accepted as it is, then within this bad one I see only this other amendment to Article 5, which, however, is trying to do something at least a little bit. This is that it would not really be those who would have difficulty selling, for example, one piece of land, because they would not get an agency that would have for some 50 euros or 60, that commission would be maximum, limited, but would not get an agency that would sell it. But they will still remain houses, for example, in an environment that is not easy to sell -- let me put it this way -- where they will deal in black with these sellers or they will have many years left these houses and these land will not be sold. That is why I think that this regulation is wrong in this article because it does not protect the consumer, but it introduces some unnecessary confusion between consumers and those who do - it is said - real estate. Therefore, I will basically not support this matter, except when there is a vote on the second amendment, which - I think - will still ease a little, but not correct the mistakes introduced by this article. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Mrs. Silva Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u13	Thank you very much. I will, in contrast to my fellow Member Mr Kremjar, support the amendment to Article 5, in particular because of the fact that - although he claims that we will in some way restrict the free operation of the market. I think it is only logical for the representative of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to want only the free and free functioning of the market. However, as you know, the market is often limited by the interests of those on the market. Among others, Article 5 also pointed out that those who perform, operate, operate and are integrated into an interest association have just been alerted to difficulties in the transport of property of minor value. These are garages, influences, different Brunettes, meadows, perks, smaller economic facilities, which are very much needed for certain traffic on the market and also create certain traffic and economic well-being. I think that if real estate organisations and real estate intermediaries are interested in limiting this part because they are afraid of restricting traffic in this area, which is absolutely necessary. People are just interested in exchanging these goods. It is therefore good that the amendment offered by the coalition is also accepted. I do not see any reservations about accepting this 10,000-euro amendment. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Grachner, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u15	Thank you for your word. It seems to me that the Real Estate Intermediation Act is extremely important and must be adopted as soon as possible. In this area, according to my assessment, there has been a legal void, allowing mainly some real estate companies and individuals to suffer considerable damage to individual natural persons. We must not forget that most of us or most of us, through real estate brokers, purchase real estate only once in life or perhaps twice, and that at that time our entire savings plus some other borrowed assets are in play. In principle, I very much welcome this limitation of commission because I think that a competitive and market economy in real estate can be established within these 4% and thus achieve the effect of consumer protection. This is also the main purpose of this law. I think that real estate companies and real estate intermediaries are easily competing with each other not only after commission but also after the quality of these services and after the insurance of the real estate business. I therefore very much welcome this restriction and very much support this other amendment. That at the value of real estate up to EUR 10 000 commissions is a matter of market legality. I would like to stress once again that I support this restriction. I support the law, too. I will also support the amendment of the four coalition parties. I will not support the amendment of the opposition SDS party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u16	Thank you very much! Anyone else want to talk about the amendments to Article 5? No! No! So I conclude the debate and open the debate on the two amendments to Article 6. Both are proposed by the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate and open the debate on the amendment of the same Group of Members to Article 8. Mrs. Nigga, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u17	I am very sorry that I will not have the opportunity to discuss Article 8, because I do not have an interlocutor. I hope that next time the proposed amendment group will also be present at the meeting of the national assembly. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u18	Thank you very much! I am opening the debate on Article 9 and the amendment of the four groups of Members to this Article. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Mrs. Nigga, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u19	Yes, thank you very much! Article 9 is simply an article which regulates in one way the way of withdrawing the licence or deleting the licence of the holder of the real estate intermediaries. I think that this proposed solution, which is given here by the three groups of Members, is because this article - I think - has not been joined by the Desus Group of Members, but I strongly support it. This will in one way increase the quality of real estate intervention and, in particular, the responsibility of all those who carry out this activity. It defined exactly how and how, by increasing the quality and responsibility of intermediaries, we will also protect the weaker one in the chain. This is also the purpose of this law. Finally, we will protect the public interest. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you very much! Anyone else? I conclude the debate on Article 12 and the amendment to Article 9 - I apologize - and the amendment to this Article and open the debate on Article 12 and the amendment of the three LDS groups or the LDS MPs and the Joint List and SLS groups to this Article. Mr. Lenko, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you so much for saying that. In opening, I must say that I support this because I have expressed a similar thought, which has now been corrected with the amendment, on the Committee. If we find that today about 400 real estate brokers, some of whom do not even have a complete secondary education, then suddenly they become, and they have concluded contracts and given them to notaries for certification - I believe - that there has also been a nuisance. I do not think that we should suddenly make such a leap that only a graduate lawyer with a state legal exam should be here, but that the proposed requirement is certainly a high enough threshold for contracts to be of good quality. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u22	Thank you very much! Mr Lenko, in fact, you gave an explanation for Article 22. We're at 12. It's okay!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u23	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u24	It's okay. Does anyone want to discuss Article 12? No, no, no. I conclude the debate and open the debate on the amendment of the groups of Members to Article 22. Anybody want a word? Mr. Lenko has already been identified. Mrs. Nigga, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much! I think the parliamentary groups have made the right decision here. Since the legal examination is deleted by this amendment, because the interpretation was such that those who have a legal examination have this examination for representation before a court. Since there is no need for representation before a court in real estate, this examination is unnecessary. I support the proposal of the three parliamentary groups to delete the legal examination. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u27	Thank you very much! The Government supports the amendment of four parliamentary groups. However, I was assigned to the government to say that the Ministry of Justice has concerns. In fact, their argument is that this would be, in short, if a contractor were to be envisaged, if only the document holder had a legal examination - they say - would be in the interest of the parties to the transaction for reasons of greater legal certainty as well as of the intermediary itself due to his liability for the document drawn up. That's their argument. The government came to know him and supported the amendment. My task was to present their thoughts to the Members. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you very much! I must say, I will not support this amendment. It seems to me - despite the fact that we have tabled it - that the explanation just given by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Ministry of Justice is much more logical and therefore I cannot support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Mogo!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u31	This dilemma has already arisen in several laws. Should people entrusted with legal duties have this state exam or not? In any case, it is good to have as qualified a person as possible to protect the one who came for help. If we accept such an amendment, we say that knowledge can harm, which is quite contrary to the quality of life in an information society that seeks science.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u33	I think it would still suggest explaining that this does not in any way mean that knowledge harms. But this means that with the current state of affairs, when contracts can be made up practically by anyone, this is still a big, high-quality leap. Contracts should therefore only be made up of people who have a degree in law school. It's hard to agree to an implicit claim that a degree in law school isn't enough for someone to draw up a contract that's mostly typical. I believe that real estate companies will already work hard - after all, this law is going to make them liable for the possible poor contract. Who's gonna put it together with them? Either she's a lawyer with a degree in law school or a lawyer with a legal exam, but it's their business. So, the real estate company is responsible for a possibly poor contract. I therefore believe that the proposal contained in the amendment of the four groups of Members is quite appropriate. The conclusion of contracts is not necessarily an integral part of the brokerage business. It's an extra job. It is not necessary for those who enter into a contractual relationship with a real estate company to obtain a contract in the package. He himself decides whether he will order the production of this type contract in this real estate company or with a notary or with a lawyer or with someone else. That's his business. Therefore, it seems to me that a provision - under which we order a real estate company, that if it already consists of, or if it already offers this service, it must be done exclusively by it and only by someone who has a judicial state exam - is exaggerated. Once again, they are responsible for this. They'll make sure it's made up of someone who knows how to do it. The government therefore supports the amendment of the four groups of Members. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nigga, please, then Mr. Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much. As an additional argument, I would like to say that in the debate among others there was also the idea that it would be for real estate companies that the Faculty of Law and a group of experts would make a certain form of such a contract that would further protect all those. That's what the Minister said. There is also a contract in the component of the mediation. Since the contract can not last be reviewed by the final one, it is said, not only in the contract, but also in some way to draw it up and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u37	Even those who graduate from philosophy college, who do not have a state exam, cannot learn in elementary school or in kindergarten or elsewhere. My thesis was that he had a higher education, he'll certainly do it better. However, the dilemma in drawing up these documents is also that, on the one hand, the State requires a state justice examination in the case of lawyers - which is normal - who are represented before a court. The interiors, which consist of these documents, must also have a state justice exam. What Mr Minister has said is that this law improves the situation, I believe. I was just looking forward to it myself. I am speaking of the fact that if the remainder of the law were to be written, it would continue to be of a significantly better quality to draw up contracts. For he who is able to pass the test of justice certainly has a broader horizon than he who does not have it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u39	I was convinced by the Secretary of the digger. I'm withdrawing my concerns.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Since no one wants another word, I conclude the debate on Article 22 and the amendment to this Article. We are moving on to the debate on Article 23 and the two amendments to this Article. Under number 1, we have the amendment of four parliamentary groups and under number 2 of the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 33 and the two amendments. Both of them are proposed by the New Slovenia parliamentary group. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We move on to Article 36 and three amendments. The proposal for all three of them is the New Slovenia Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 37 and the amendment of the same motions. I conclude the debate. I am also putting to the debate Article 37a, an amendment proposed by the three groups of Members. Since no one wants to discuss, I conclude the debate and inform you that we will vote today at 4:30 on the amendments, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Government, the Minister and the Secretary of State for their cooperation. However, I would like to inform you that, with the fourth item of the agenda, this second reading of the draft Law on the Register of Mothers, will continue at 12.25 p.m. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u41	We're moving to four. Period of the day - another defense proposal for the Home Register Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Between us, I welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State and my colleagues. Government representatives, you have the floor. Minister, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u42	Your Honor! Maternal books are records which, in addition to data on individual parental facts, provide basic data on civil status, on the personal status of citizens. It may be interesting to note that 430,000 such data related to births, deaths, marriages, and the like are published annually. This is therefore an important administrative activity, which unfortunately is still based on a law that was already adopted in 1974, but is later amended several times, but no longer an appropriate basis for today’s use. It has been overtaken by technological developments, in particular the requirements of the information society, the approximation of information services and the informationisation of citizens' records and the electronic intellectual way in which they can operate. However, the law is also inconsistent with the legislation adopted at a later date, both with regard to the designation of the home areas and with regard to the powers of diplomatic and consular representations and so on. The main novelties of the law are that we will now combine the three hand-held home books into a single computer-run register, which will present a complete overview of the personal status of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. However, due to direct links with other records and users, such a way of keeping the register will ensure faster, more efficient and more rational management of the personal situation, as well as simultaneous updating of the data in all records. Individuals will be allowed to obtain extracts and confirm at any administrative unit, not only where the parent fact is entered. A number of maternal areas that have been irregularly identified are hereby abolished. A single parent area shall be introduced for the administrative unit area. The authority responsible for overseeing the implementation of the law shall be designated. A special examination shall be prescribed for the parent. There's some more of this news. On behalf of the proposer, I would like to say that we support the amendments that were later drafted by Articles 25, 28 and 29. Article 25 of the proposal refers to corrections to errors in the home registry. It is proposed to add a second paragraph, which provides that no fee shall be paid for the harmonisation of the data in the home registry with other records. The amendments to Articles 28 and 29 relate to the issue of extracts and other certificates from the home registry and identify the beneficiaries to inspect the data in the home registry. The proposal for amendments is substantively regulated by a law governing the protection of personal data. The exception is intended only for the examination of the personal data of the deceased 20 years after death, for scientific research or publicist purposes, which is in accordance with the Archive Material Act, although it is still not possible to withdraw the records because of the usefulness of the archive to a permanent storage. I'd like to suggest this. In view of the small number of amendments, the third is to consider the draft law in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at the same meeting. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u43	Thank you, Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rad Bohinc. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I would like to ask the rapporteur if you would like to present the Committee's report. Mr Paula Rupar should be appointed Vice-President. He's not here, so there won't be a report. This is why the views of the groups are presented. Nova Slovenija, People's Party, LDS and SLS have been announced. I give my word to Dusan Wolf. Please! For the position of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u44	Thank you, President, for your word. It is my duty to present the position of the LDS Group on this law. The LDS Group supports the updated proposal of the Home Register Act as well as the amendments tabled for the second reading at the meeting of the assembly due to the following facts: First of all, the mother books are still kept manually. The weakness of such a way of managing is the urgency and frequent inaccuracies of the data. The authorities or other records which are eligible for the data shall obtain them at a specified time delay. However, there is a greater possibility of errors due to multiple entries of data from the forms into individual computer records. It is precisely because of the advances in technology, the information requirements and thus the approximation of the administrative services of citizens and the provision of efficiency that, in our opinion, the home books should be maintained electronically. Maternal books are kept in motherly areas, for which one birthright book and the mother book of the dead are kept, while marriage books are kept in settlements where marriages are concluded. Nevertheless, the present law still lays down the jurisdiction of the congregation to determine the home areas, and despite the fact that this authority has long been transferred to the country. Nor does the law lay down the conditions or criteria for determining the parent areas, which has led to different arrangements for each administrative unit. As an example, we now have 247 home areas in force for marriage, and 121 settlements have been established. It is precisely for these reasons that the criteria for determining the parent areas should be laid down, as well as to rationalise and reduce their number. The current law still contains a series of provisions relating to the description of individual parent data in the former SFRJ area which can no longer be implemented after the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also said that the provisions on the management of home books in diplomatic representations of the SFRJ abroad, although the Republic of Slovenia does not run home books at diplomatic offices. I think it is right to stress in particular that in the LDS Group we particularly support the additions included in the amended proposal for a law on the basis of a proposal from the home working body or commission for the national communities, which provides that in the areas defined by the law where the indigenous Italian or Hungarian national communities live, extracts and certificates are issued from the mother register in Slovenian and in the language of the national community. This preserves the already guaranteed and achieved level of protection of the rights of members of the national community. The LDS Group will never agree to a solution that would reduce the level of rights already guaranteed, even if such solutions are not contrary to the constitutionally guaranteed protection of the situation of both national communities. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u45	Thank you very much. These were the views of the groups of Members. I am moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be led by the review of the amendments of 24.3.2003. I am putting to the debate Article 25 and the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed Dušan Vukko. Anybody want a word? Please, Mrs. Irma Pavlinič Krebs!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, in view of the law, one might feel that this is a technical rule. However, I must say at this point in my knowledge of this issue that the applicant has taken an extremely courageous and courageous approach to an extremely important chapter in our lives, that is to say, to capture data on the personal condition of individuals. In fact, not only bravely but also modernly - one could say. In the past and right up to today, the method of capture of these data was based on manually maintained records. This therefore meant that the records which were subsequently established were computerised. An extremely important record is the central register of the population, which we have started to keep computerised since 1990. Of course, this is causing a lot of problems because the data entered in this central register of the population were for several reasons not exactly aligned with the data in hand-run homebooks, not least because of the fact that these mother books were in other places, especially in hospitals where the most personal situation is, that is, births and deaths, occurred and also covered in these home books. It was therefore the case that computer-controlled records showed different data, either on behalf or in the surname or in any other data on the personal status of the individual. However, we doubtless put in the old regulations of the mother books the claim that the information about the individual who is enrolled in the mother book is actually the one. What happened next! The following has been the case: as a country, we may have been clumsy in correcting such mistakes. In a way, we asked citizens and citizens to pay a tax for repairs in their home books. The amendment to Article 25 is, in fact, no other than to say that the subsequent records, which did not follow the data from manual led books, were not, in fact, able to verify the error of the State, which in the wake of the new records, was not able to verify everything as it had actually set itself a goal. It is therefore right to accept this amendment and thus prevent the burden of paying administrative fees on individuals who have failed in the process. Once again, I must say that I congratulate the applicants on their decision on this courage. In doing so, I am aware that in the future, until we are able to establish this register, there will be much work to be done in front of officials. But within a few years, we will reach a level that many will envy. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u47	Thank you! Anyone else want a word on Article 25? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 25. I am putting to the debate Article 28 and the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed Dušan Vukko. Comrade Dushan Wolf, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Articles 28 and 29 refer to the right of access to data and the right to an extract. The proposed law is indeed in line with the Personal Data Protection Act, as it represents the home books as well as the register of origin for a new sensitive area, in particular from the point of view of personal data. The proposed law aims to protect data from unjustified use and abuse of data, which also requires an authorised and selective approach to data. However, I believe and believe that those who have signed under the amendment cannot agree to such a restrictive interpretation of the Personal Data Protection Act and, accordingly, to the established solution in the law. Reasoned findings are mainly based on the availability of data in the case of deceased persons. The draft law provides that, in the event that the person entered is no longer alive and has not explicitly prohibited the transmission of his personal data during his life, that he has the right to have a look at his personal data by persons expressing a legitimate interest in the use of such personal data and that the immediate family members do not object. By this provision, if that were the case, access to such data would be totally denied to the other persons. We believe ourselves that the purpose of the Personal Data Protection Act is to prevent illegal and unjustifiable interference with the privacy of a living person. Therefore, the law provides for judicial protection whereby the injured person may prevent these acts and the damage caused to him. In doing so, it rightly raises the question of how the personal rights of the long-lost or unjustifiable interference with his privacy are being violated and is thereby harmed. What damage, for example, is caused by the production of a pedigree for his relatives? Or how does a historian who wants to check his birth records for the purposes of his scientific research work interfere with the privacy of the deceased? The amendment provides, for these reasons, that, in the event that at least 20 years have elapsed since the death of the entered data and during the time of his life, he has not expressly prohibited the transmission of his personal data, irrespective of the provisions of the law governing the protection of personal data, he shall also have the right to have access to his personal data by other persons who demonstrate that such data will be used for scientific, cultural or publicist purposes. With the emphasis that closer family members do not oppose this view. With such a provision as proposed in Articles 29 and 28, we believe that we are following the purpose of Article 12 of the Personal Data Protection Act, which prohibits the transmission of personal data on deceased persons if the following conditions are not met; the deceased must not prohibit the transmission of their personal data, and the consent of the immediate family members is necessary. The proposed solution is largely based on the more open systems in place in Europe, which in some ways take account of the needs of family and scientific research. Let me give you two examples: In Switzerland and in the Czech Republic, all persons who have a legitimate direct interest have access to this data. They're relatives, scientists and so on. In Finland, for example, data becomes publicly available 25 years after death. With the proposed amendment, we want to ensure a more effective exercise of the two rights that we consider important: the right to information and the right to scientific freedom. By means of the proposed regulation - in our opinion - we are not interfering with the individual's personal rights or privacy, but we are preventing the national cultural and scientific and research damage caused by the unchanged provisions of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you! Does anyone else want to discuss this article? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 28. In the debate I give Article 29 and the amendment of the same signed, first-signed Dušan Vukko, that is to say Article 29. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Thank you very much! This concludes the debate on the articles and amendments to this Article. We will vote on the amendments in accordance with the meeting's timetable today at 4:30 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. At 1:30 p.m., we will resume our session with agenda item 5. Thank you all for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u50	We will proceed with the work of the National Assembly. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Guilt Correction Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. I welcome Secretary of State Hinko Jenul, who I give my word to.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! You have before you a proposal for a law supplementing the law on the correction of wrongs, which is proposed because the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decided last May that the second paragraph of Article 10 and the second paragraph of Article 23 of the Law on the correction of wrongs should be repealed. The law was adopted in 1996 and laid down specific entitlements for certain categories of citizens, former political prisoners, relatives after the war killed and several related categories, and established an initial 18-month period within which they may apply for recognition of these entitlements. In 2001, this period was extended for a further 10 months and expired, following the legal regime, as it was in force at the decision of the Constitutional Court, on 31 December 2001. The Constitutional Court considers that the time limit set and expired was not in accordance with the principles of the rule of law and did not allow those appointed by law to exercise that status in all cases. This is because, in a specific case, account must be taken of the natural, social and psychological characteristics of a large part of the stakeholders, which was also pointed out by the Ministry of Justice when the number of applications submitted after the expiry of the deadline was reported. The Constitutional Court has left the legislator to either leave the deadline completely open or to re-establish that deadline by meeting the nature of the claims for which it is established. As a proposal, the Government has tabled a proposal in which it originally proposed a deadline by the end of this year. However, in view of the progress of the legislative procedure and the fact that another law has been examined before this law, which is supposed to deal with certain issues, this procedure has therefore been delayed, the Government supports the solution set up by the Home Committee to extend until 31 December 2004 by supplementing the law the two deadlines which have been repealed. In this way, the period for the application of the entitlements granted by law will be a total of 8 years 1 month and 22 days, taking into account the overall duration of the legal regime from the beginning to the expiry of the period, which we consider appropriate in view of the nature of the claims. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you to the Secretary of State for the explanation given. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur of the committee to submit a report. He wants a word? There's a colleague named Franz Sušnik who's not here. Will someone else do it for him? [[No, no, ……]] The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the word in the order of the applicants, namely France Rokavac, SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Representative of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! While in principle we support the proposal to supplement the law on the correction of injustices in the parliamentary group. Indeed, we believe that it is imperative to extend the deadline for the submission of applications, as well as the time limit for the submission of an audit on the basis of the above-mentioned decision of the Constitutional Court. In doing so, we ask ourselves whether the 2004 period is also the right time for a similar situation to happen again in the next term, when the next term of this national assembly can be restored before a decision is taken, or whether the individual whose fundamental constitutional right has been violated will not be able to enforce his legal requirements. We are therefore again wondering whether the deadline is even a reasonable basis for setting the time limit according to the Constitutional Court's decision. In doing so, I would also point out that, following the last amendment and the amendment of the law on the correction of injustices or the extension of the time limit to date, the number of applications has increased by more than half. This independently shows that there are still many cases of citizens and citizens who have not taken advantage of this option under the law passed by the law on the correction of injustices. in the Group of Members, we ask in particular whether it is likely that there is still a lack of information. In fact, it is quite eloquent that the application form cannot be obtained anywhere at local level: not in municipalities or in administrative units. So that the organisation and implementation of this Act should also ensure better information or accessibility to all citizens and citizens who have the opportunity to exercise their right under the law on the correction of wrongs in order to be able to do so. In doing so, we reiterate in the parliamentary group that this addition to the law does not solve one of the issues. I think it would be necessary for the Ministry and Government to examine in particular the third paragraph of Article 2, first paragraph, of Article 22, and then onward. Because I see time is running out, just for a little while - to conclude, Mr. Anderlich, final thought, if you'll excuse me. Indeed, all former political prisoners or relatives of those killed, if convicted in military courts in other republics, cannot carry out a review of the proceedings under the law on the correction of wrongs. It would therefore be necessary for the government and the competent ministry to also address this issue in the future. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you. Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u55	Your Honors are here! The Constitutional Court is - I have waited for Mr Anderlich to calm down - the Constitutional Court has spoken. The National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have extended the deadline several times. In our party, we estimate that the eight-year period allowed by the existing law by the possible adoption of this law is sufficient for all beneficiaries to take advantage of their "rights" offered by constitutional regulation or legislation within our country. We also assess that the administrative obstacles or forms referred to by the representative of the People's Party before me should not be the reason for the extension until 2004 but should be sufficient in some form of parliamentary democracy to establish to all local authorities that these forms must be obtained. This is about the proposal of a human party that makes sense. On the other hand, it should be noted that, at least within the national party, we are very reluctant to adopt laws that have in their explanatory memorandum number 3, which is an assessment of the financial consequences, a vague picture. It is likely that the argument that the financial picture is impossible to identify or cannot be assessed. That is why we have created some kind of fund in the framework of the budgets for the coming years. On the other hand, it may be a criticism of the government if the matter has been dealt with for six or seven years. We estimate that a frame image could already be given. It is likely that the approach to such issues depends mainly on archives that allow for insight into participants in past processes. It follows from here that, as with the War Cemetery Act in the Slovenian National Party, we attribute the guilt to the inability to negotiate Slovenia with countries originating in the former Yugoslavia. On the basis of the opinion of the Constitutional Court and the assessment that the eight-year period is sufficient to apply and that the beneficiaries of this law receive their compensation, we will not oppose the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u56	Thank you. I give the floor to Maximilian Lavrinc to present the LDS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. I'll be shorter because most things have been said. So when the government introduced this law into the procedure, it was written in 1992. After reading this constitutional decision and identifying the reasons for such a decision by the Constitutional Court, we agreed in the parliamentary group to propose to the parties represented on the Internal Policy Committee that the deadline should be extended until the end of 2004. I must say that the proposal has come across the approval of virtually all parties. Well, some think that this deadline would be extended until 2010. With us, we have estimated that, as many as eight years have now been or will all be available for the exercise of these rights, it is sufficient. That's the first one. Secondly, the political climate is quite different than it may have been at the beginning and that even those who have not yet somehow hoped to approach and start this process can do so. At the same time, we have also considered in this direction that if this deadline were to be extended excessively, that is to say, practically leave unlimited, in this way we invite even those who are not entitled to the rights arising from this law to try anyway. That's the first one. Another reason that has led us to believe that a deadline must be set is financial obligations. In fact, one must know how much the country owes these people. The third reason is that if we were to extend or leave the deadline open at all, we would in some way give the administrative authorities the silence to grind - to say so - with administrative procedures. This is how we estimate - as I said - that this deadline, by the end of 2004, is well overdue. After all, it's just that these applications are filed. Procedures such as these and others, it is said, first this administration and then on the way to court, unless anyone is satisfied, will continue to run. By supporting such a bill as is before us, this complementary proposal. We will not support any amendments that go into extending this deadline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you. Bogomir Vnučec, a youth party, also has the word for the position of the delegation. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Too often we meet in this National Assembly with various corrections imposed on us by the Constitutional Court. Sometimes because it suits us, but sometimes because when a fundamental law was adopted, it was not the will to make certain changes or suggestions that were not pleasing to everyone. As far as this law is concerned, it seems to us that it is high time that it is finally cleared up with various and different injustices. For there are many new tasks ahead of us, which are being entrusted to us by new integrations into the European Union and NATO. That is why we believe that things need to be handled again. Now, what is this date, whether this is appropriate, so that we will not meet again with some of the conclusions of the Constitutional Court, that it was too short - I think this too needs to be clarified. Since we're almost halfway through this year. The year 2004 is fast approaching, but we also know how it is with officials in administrative units and other state institutions to deal with this and what their skills or will is to solve these problems. So here it is necessary to consider whether this date is appropriate, whether it is still too short, that we can finally deal with new things that concern all of us, especially young ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u60	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be led by the review of the amendments of 24.3.2003. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members to this Article. Anybody want a word? Comrade John Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In this amendment and this article, which is simply referring to the extension of the time limit, the question raised as a Member is, Did the Constitutional Court, by its decision, oblige us to set a deadline at all? I did not understand the Constitutional Court and its decision in such a way that we must now come with time as a national assembly. Maybe I was misreading the decision. But I'd like to ask those of you who suggested it. I welcome this to be arranged for this subject to be opened at the meeting. I believe that, in principle, the correction of injustices and the setting of a time limit by which a person who has suffered some injustice can lodge a request through an agreed procedure - contrary to himself and also contrary to the Council of Europe resolution 1996. As long as I'm alive, I have the right to do this. I am confident that if anyone complains to the Constitutional Court on 1.1.2005, he will get it again, because all the conditions will be the same. It's always guilt until you fix it. The guilt remains unfulfilled until you fix it. Actually, this road is unnecessary. I don't think it was necessary for us to approach in this way. However, I must say that there may still be too little to know when it is said that the state is responsible - I hope that there are not Members and Members who would think that this is covered through the state budget. When our colleagues and colleagues decided on the ownership model decades ago, they said they would put 10% of the Slovenian economy's money in the Slovenian compensation company. There's a source for that guilt. Therefore, it is necessary to make this clear here. Another matter - I hope, Mr Secretary of State, that you will confirm - that there will be forms on all administrative units, that our citizens and citizens will be equal to other laws. I hear there are no forms. That's two-faced. The forms should be on all administrative units. Mr Secretary of State, I hope you have this information, that there are also forms on administrative units. For if they are not, then people are second-rate citizens, those who want to be on the basis of these provisions, in order to achieve the correction of injustice. But I have heard that sometimes it happens that not only is it not on administrative units, that there is no place to get these forms, that there are no to get them or in municipalities that would only somehow help their citizens. I don't even know where people find these forms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u62	Thank you. Comrade Diaca, you didn't report the debate, so for now I can't give you my word because time is limited. Does anyone else who is registered to Article 1 wish to have a discussion? If not, I conclude the debate on Article 1 and bring to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this Article. Anyone want to discuss Article 2? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 2. We will vote on the amendments today at 4:30 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up the agenda with this.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u63	Colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the meeting of the National Assembly, at 6. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE SUPPLEMENTING OF THE ORGANISATION AND FINANCING OF TRAINING AND EDUCATION, REDUCED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank, which I give the floor to the opening explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, fellow Members! Today we are considering amending the law on financing education and education, which interferes with ensuring comparable and equal conditions for students and students from remote backgrounds to educational institutions. The adoption of this law would significantly reduce the obvious and high costs incurred by rural families if they wanted to ensure the education of their children and give them conditions for equal inclusion in Slovenian society. The law applies exclusively to drivers, i.e. those who do not have a room in a student’s or a student’s home, or in private rooms, and are forced to drive. It is therefore mainly for rural students from areas where there are no important educational institutions and where, as a rule, there are not enough and even fewer quality jobs available, and since other goods that are important for today are available in very limited quantities. There are significantly fewer jobs in the countryside. The conditions of life are also greatly deteriorating, so the population migrates daily and eventually emigrates. These movements are particularly vulnerable to the most pervasive, a youth who lacks stable roots and therefore quickly responds to the advantages and opportunities, as he is not overly willing to deal with the unnecessary problems, problems, and burdens of living in the land. In the education process, transport costs to secondary schools and colleges and living expenses in homes are the key or far-reaching cost of primary school education. All other costs together do not reach the cost of staying or transport. Of course, these costs are reserved only for families from faraway places. Basic education further deepens the huge difference between urban and rural societies and significantly exacerbates the economic situation of rural families. It is these costs that are the most often the maximum limiting factor for admission to further education. Often, families cannot afford these costs, or they can only afford one child, and capable children are enrolled in less demanding programs closer to home or seeking immediate employment. In addition to the situational discrimination, there is discrimination in the family, as families must radically cut their children's careers due to lack of resources, because they cannot afford education that is in line with their ability and wishes for adequate education. I believe that this is supported by fellow Members who are co-signers of the law, that the law is necessary and that these screaming differences between the city and the countryside need to be reduced. They pay a lot of attention to these costs, even abroad, and even the Mediterranean Portugal, and Austria and not only the developed Scandinavian countries cover much or even all such costs. Therefore, I believe that a much more radical intervention is needed than the law will allow. And a word about the financial implications. If the original version were adopted, it would take about 7 billion a year. This means that Elena’s management team could only cover three months’ costs to all beneficiaries under this law with the awards it has taken for its work, and that public funds in the Bank’s SIB project would disappear for all beneficiaries throughout the year. So public money is more than enough. It must be renamed for the right purpose. Not exactly the best example of this policy to take on the most burdened families. The supplementary proposal of the Education Committee reduces the amount of resources and obligations needed by the State, thus helping families by about three times. In short, the good purpose of the law and the four proposed groups will be quite misleading. With the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia, if adopted, the solution will improve considerably and approach the basic proposal. Finally, I would like to thank the associations, societies and individuals, including Members, fellow Members for their support in helping to deal with this law today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as a parent working body. The Chairman of this Committee, Mr Rudolf Moge, will present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u66	President, thank you so much for your word. Mr. Minister with a team, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The Committee considered the law. We have also received letters from the Diatric Organization of Slovenia, the Community of Diagnostic Homes of Slovenia, the University of Ljubljana Students' Organisations, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the opinion of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. Jože Tanko, on behalf of the applicants, drew attention to the costs of families with several children and families from rural areas, whose children are educated in secondary schools, which are usually in cities. He pointed out that the law needed to be supplemented by amendments resulting from the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. Minister Gaber mentioned that, in the framework of coordination within the government, they had already prepared a draft regulation on subsidising the transport of students and students of higher education, and placed in it the following criteria for granting the subsidy: firstly, the status of apprentice, student or student of higher education, secondly, the social criterion as a basic criterion and thirdly, the distance of the school from the place of residence. He argued that if the law were supplemented by the introduction of criteria, the government would probably support the law. This is what happened with the letter you received. Jožef Kavtičnik proposed to the committee to adopt an amendment that would raise the amount of the subsidy from 60% to 70% and introduce criteria for granting a scholarship, such as the social status of the apprentice, the student or the student of the higher school, the distance of the school from the place of residence, the possibility of staying in a student’s home. In the examination of the amendments, the Legislative and Legal Service drew attention to a legal principle, which, inter alia, means that the law must have a substantive basis in the law. This means that the law must regulate at least the basic conditions or criteria and criteria which are then broken down by a sub-legislative act. On the basis of the debate and on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Committee prepared and adopted an amendment to Article 1 without a vote against. He also supported the amendment of the Socialist Party's Group to Article 2 without a vote against. Without a vote against it, he also adopted a complementary bill, which we will most likely adopt today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you very much. With us is the Minister for Education, Science and Sport with fellow workers. I give him my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Government supports the amended proposal for a law supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education adopted by the Committee on Culture, Education, Science and Sport at its meeting on 5.3.2003. With the additions adopted, the Content Committee took the views expressed by the Government in its first opinion on the proposal for a law. In cooperation with two other ministries, the Ministry has also drawn up a draft regulation on which the law is being discussed. It seeks to ensure the continuation of the general subsidy resulting from student status to a slightly lower extent than it has been so far, and the subsidy resulting from the social situation, the distance of the student from the place of education and also takes into account the possibility of being in a student's home. We expect that in the autumn we will be able to start implementing the law in such a way as to increase the fairness of subsidisation in the Republic of Slovenia, the fairness of transport subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you, Minister. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I give the floor to the Group of the Slovenian National Party, Sašu Pječet. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u70	Your Honors are here! From everything that has been said by the representative of the committee, by the Ministry and the proposer, I do not believe that this law would not be supported. In the Slovenian National Party, at the time of the consideration of this law in the basic form, as stated by colleague Tanko, we were led primarily by the idea that knowledge is a wealth and that this wealth should be spread among people and given. That, through knowledge, especially on the basis of Sunday's decision, that is, when Slovenia joins the European Union, Slovenians can also ensure a bright future in the field of knowledge as a long-term source of success in our country. The minister was talking to me about a rule that he was prepared for. Well, this rule was the only question for the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group under the law. We have come to the conclusion that everything depends on the rules governing the procedure and criteria for subsidisation and the like. But if today the Minister has found that the rule is in the final phase, then even within the SNS Group, we see no reason why we would object to the law. It is true, however, and in our Group of Members, that we welcome the proposaler, whom we consider to have taken his first step towards solving a matter that has negatively reflected in the distance of the location and in the form of a specific social category; as well as the decision of the Committee which highlighted the guidelines, has changed, according to our assessment in the right direction and in the "swiftness" of the competent minister. Therefore, it is precisely because of the knowledge of wealth that we will support the proposal of the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you. I give the word "magic." Majdi Potrata for the position of the Joint List Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, honourable Members, Minister and Fellow Members! The proposal for a law supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education was tabled shortly after a similar proposal for a law was rejected following a general discussion at a meeting of the National Assembly. While it was often possible to hear arguments in favour of the applicants in the debate to try to solve the problem of the country's programme orientation on its way to a knowledge-based society, knowledge is essential for individuals' position in society and it was not to be seen as an objection to the inclusion of this in the law in the appropriate form, the proposal did not offer appropriate solutions. Although the applicants also justified, in particular social inequality as a reason for the proposed subsidisation of school transport, and this is, above all, a social instrument to mitigate the inequality to access to education for all those who have a poor material situation preventing or making the way to knowledge, they did not foresee any criteria under which this right could be exercised. That is why, in the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we expected that the second proposal would address these shortcomings. However, he had just completed the meeting of the committee and had received those elements that we had expected from the debaters in the first place. In order to support the amended proposal of the law, we will decide in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats because, according to the Minister's words, the funds for subsidised transport for apprentices, students and students of higher schools are provided because there are certain criteria on which the right to take account of the social situation of the beneficiary is taken into account because the distance of the place of residence does not affect the level, because the criterion is that the possibility of being in a student's or student's home is not neglected and that the deadline within which the Ministry must draw up the Regulation on subsidisation of monthly tickets for students and students of higher schools is set. However, the bill raised other issues that highlighted different aspects of the country's care and assistance, in particular the secondary population, and which should also be considered and regulated accordingly. The letter from the student and student organisations, which supported each of them with the proposed increase in transport subsidies, seems to pay particular attention to the letter of the home administrators because it gives them at least two thoughts: for the first time, that the proposed subsidies should not put those students and students who decide to stay in the student homes in order to give them more time to study, to make better use of time and therefore to make more opportunities for extracurricular activities. Therefore, we must not overlook those suggestions to the ministry, which also went in the direction of possible reductions in care in student homes. Secondly, transport from the place of residence to the home of a student must also be subsidised. We will not support the complementary proposal to the law of the amendment tabled because the criteria resulting from the social situation of the beneficiary will be set by the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you. The position of the SLS Group will be given by a colleague Janez Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have the same position as we had a few months ago when the same motioner as a Member proposed that the applicable law on the organisation and financing of education and education be supplemented. I would like to remind you that, at the time, I think that Dr. Gaber was still in his capacity as a Member of Parliament foresaw a possible compromise. This compromise is supposed to be contained in a sub-legislative act adopted by the Minister, and it sets out the procedures and criteria when the amount of subsidies for the transport of apprentices, students and students of higher schools which are trained within a distance of 5 kilometres or more from the place of residence is determined. Well, then most of us somehow didn't support the solution. Due to the persistence of the proposaler, we now have before us a law of relatively equal content, with very equal purpose and in the meantime, I would say that the surprising positive role of the parent financial committee, which is - I recall - because I was at this meeting of the working body - I advised that the solutions in the law through the amendments are reshaping so that the necessary financial resources can be provided for the implementation of the law by redistributing the funds into the already adopted national budget for 2003. A very important and positive change and a referral of our financial committee. This was very positive adopted on the Committee itself. At the same time, the minister or government came with a solution that is hidden in this submarital act. The Group of Members will support the proposed law. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also believe that this law somehow responds to, I would say, a very courageous and very original warning from the Ombudsman this year when he took part in the National Assembly that there is also regional discrimination in Slovenia in some areas. There really is. This law is the legislator's response to regional discrimination. The question here is whether the social situation is a key criterion. The social situation cannot be the key criteria. Life is more complicated. Here it should be noted that a way must be found - I am sure that this will be recorded in these criteria and procedures - the number of beneficiaries in the family, if at the same time a higher number of children are to be in school, must have a very strong element, which must exceed only the element of the social criterion. That's why we're going to support the law. I hear, however, that the amendment, as proposed by fellow Socialists, will not receive the majority. I therefore hope that the direction of this amendment will have its background in the Under-Law of the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr Kavtičnik will give his position to the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Chairman. A respected minister with co-workers, respectable colleagues and respected colleagues! Knowledge creation, use and marketing are becoming key factors today. With our actions and our collective efforts, we want to prove and reach a knowledge-based society. Our objectives are known: to the largest possible number of people to provide quality education, because this is an essential factor in economic, social and cultural development. Access to education was also a reason for supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. For the first time, we met with this issue in the National Assembly at a December session. Today's law in its original form proposed changes that would regulate the subsidisation of school transport of students and students for all to the same extent as the law. The amount of the monthly ticket subsidy would also increase. Since we have not provided sufficient resources in the 2003 and 2004 budget to implement such a draft law without prejudice in other areas, we have proposed amendments to the Committee to amend the law, which has two articles. Such a change will allow for a subsidy for the transport of apprentices, students and students of higher education, taking into account the different criteria. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that the aim of the proposed amendments to the law is good, but solutions are not right. Already in the debate on the Committee on Education, Youth, Science and Sport, and on the Committee on Finance, we have advocated that the solution to the problem be addressed through procedures and criteria based on the principle of social justice and, at the same time, financial possibilities within the framework of the budget. The members of the Committee on Education, Youth, Science and Sport have created an amendment that should help to the greatest extent possible to ensure that the price of the monthly ticket of transport for apprentices, students and higher education students does not constitute a barrier on the way to knowledge. We have tried to ensure that the most resources are obtained by those who are also entitled to the aid. In the amendment to Article 1, we have set out the criteria by which funds are to be shared, depending on the social situation of the beneficiary, distance from the place of education and the possibility of staying in a student or student home. Further solutions will be in the hands of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, which will further develop the Regulations on the Subsidy of Monthly Tickets for apprentices, students and higher education students. We believe that the level of subsidies should take into account all the criteria set out in Article 1 of the supplementary proposal of the law. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we therefore do not support the amendment of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, which only takes into account the number of co-ed children in the family as the only mandatory criterion in addition to the distance from the place of residence. The latter criterion is only one of the social criteria, which has been more precisely broken down by the already mentioned Ministry of Education, Youth, Science and Sport. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the complementary proposal of the law, as it was established at the meeting of the Committee on Education, Youth, Science and Sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you. And also a group of the Young Slovenia Party. Bogomir Vnučec will give the position of this group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Honorable representative of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. In the Young Slovenia Party, we welcome the compromise proposal for a law supplementing the law on organisation and financing and education and education with which we wish to address the issue that we have given a lot of attention to in the past in our party. This is a subsidy for the transport of students and students who are educated outside the place of permanent residence. In the budgets of the past years, we wanted to provide more equal access to education to students and students who do not have educational facilities by means of amendments to increase these funds. Unfortunately, at that time our amendments did not receive sufficient support, despite the fact that decentralisation and equal access to education were always at the top of government budget priorities in the presentation. When deciding to support the proposed amendments to the law, it is crucial, in our view, whether the country is prepared to listen to the pressures of students and students or their parents who simply cannot afford to pay the costs of transport to school. As we know, this is far from all the costs that parents of these children have. However, they are the only ones who are conditioned by where children live. It is precisely because of this fact in the Party of Young Slovenia that we believe that the country is the one that has to eliminate this inequality. So far, 17% of subsidisation is too low, as a large majority of transport costs are paid by parents. If the State actually provides equal opportunities for access to education for all citizens, it should theoretically pay the cost of transport in full. In view of the budget options, we estimate that the proposed amount of the subsidy, which is coordinated on the Committee, is appropriate and must be conditioned by the social situation of the beneficiary, distance from the place of education and the possibility of staying in the student or student home. This proposal is good, acceptable and will at least alleviate the distress of the vast majority of schooling youth, whose only disaster is that they do not live in cities with appropriate educational institutions. We will support the bill in the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be led by the review of the amendments of 19.3.2003. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS and New Slovenia parliamentary groups to this Article. Anybody want a word? I don't see a desire to discuss it, so I'm concluding. The amendment will be decided today at 4:30 p.m. on the basis of the remaining votes. I'm breaking this agenda. We'll continue the meeting at 4:30 p.m. Thank you very much for your cooperation with government representatives and others.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u80	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Government representatives! Allow us to proceed with the work of the National Assembly. We will move on to the voting point after yesterday and today. Before we begin the vote, I would like to inform you of the following. The Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy tells us by letter: The Committee on Foreign Policy concluded this morning's consideration of the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly on the Iraqi crisis and proposes to the National Assembly that it be considered and adopted. I have consulted with the leaders of LDS, the United List, SLS, DeSUS, SDS and NSI, and have received support from all of them in order to consider the proposal for a declaration today, immediately after the vote. I estimate that the earlier acceptance of the declaration would be in line with the expectations of many citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who are rightly disturbed by the event in Iraq. I propose that the National Assembly decide on my proposal and that it also carry out further discussions and decisions. On the basis of Rule 65(1) of the Rules of Procedure, I will put this proposal to the vote. I would warn that the proposal will not be adopted if more than one third of the Members oppose it. Does the chairman of the board want a word in this regard? [[No, no, ……]] I give the chairman my word first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr President, I thank you for presenting the text of the document I have presented to you. This declaration was tabled in the procedure as early as Friday. It's Tuesday. If everything is going to go as it was adopted at the beginning of yesterday's meeting of the National Assembly, it will be on Thursday. I believe that there are many good intentions for this declaration and, above all, the desire to act in real time rather than post-festum. This morning, the Committee on Foreign Policy has drawn up its position. The amendments were accepted. The text is available. Today, we will finish our work early enough to discuss it and perhaps decide. I hope that the proposer, in this case colleague Školč, will respond positively to these expectations. Otherwise, I am prepared to believe only what has been said on the Committee today, that some do not have serious intentions and that we can also place this declaration on the next meeting or on any other occasion that will come forward at any time. The crisis is escalating in Iraq. So I think it's appropriate that we respond when things are up to date, not later. I am therefore convinced that there are many citizens and citizens in our country who are really upset about this. So I think it's appropriate for them to hear our point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u82	Thank you for further clarification. The point is on the agenda as point 22. It is intended for Thursday's consideration by proposing that we deal with it today. I will now put this proposal to the vote. There is no debate on that. We will now only vote on the procedural proposal. Just give me a moment for the voting device to start working. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u83	Mr President, is it allowed for me to act as a motioner?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u84	It's a procedural proposal. Then we'll move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u85	Mr President, the Chairman of the Committee has done something that is not normal in spite of everything. We've adopted the agenda. We had a board meeting. If everything was going as planned by the chairman of the committee, we'd still have a committee meeting tonight, maybe another day. Part of the people who are willing to follow this meeting and this point will not be able to participate today. I've also spoken to government officials. I do not think it is appropriate for us to continue with such an important point to decide in this way, but more tomorrow at the beginning of the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u86	Thank you. The proposal is put forward, you will decide on it and we will now vote on it. We're voting! Only 42 of you voted, so we will repeat the vote. Let's be careful! We will vote again. The voting apparatus has failed a few times in the beginning. We'll vote next time. There are 54 present, 30 votes against 12. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and point 22 will be placed at the end of today's meeting, following the votes on the preceding items. In this regard, I would like to make another notification immediately. At 5 p.m. today, the Economic Committee is scheduled to meet at its meeting. Given that the meeting of the National Assembly will continue, the Chairman of the Economic Committee, Mr Ferri Horvat, announces that the meeting will be postponed to tomorrow at 9 a.m. in Room 212. Thank you so much for taking this notice. And now we're moving on with our work. Voting. We're going to break one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. Mr Tanko proposed a decision that reads as follows: The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next regular meeting on the response of Minister of Culture Andreja Richtar to the question by Mr Tanka on ensuring the independence of the state-owned media. I put this proposal to the vote. Explanation of voice. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! As colleague Tanka is not here today, I must report on behalf of the Social Democratic Party that we will vote that this matter is being discussed because the reply of the Minister of Culture was insufficient. Comrade Tanko has opened up extremely important dilemmas and questions about the information of our citizens, our public, also about the situation here in the National Assembly and how he is putting pressure on journalists, under what pressure of owners, different worlds and editorials are journalists. We fully support journalists, and we are aware that journalists in the vast majority are committed and willing to report objectively, but they are faced with sometimes incredible pressures. In fact, such pressures are most plastic for the public, as stated by colleague Tanko when a reporter reported a message to his colleague Anderlich on the matter. That's what my colleague Tanko said. In fact, the Minister has not touched on how the government intends to ensure that Slovenian citizens are informed of what is happening in Parliament, at least as they can be informed in a large part of Slovenia about what is happening in the Croatian National Assembly that they can, or in the Croatian Parliament that they can see through Slovenian [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] networks. [[...]] It is unheard of, of course, that the Minister has not shown any interest in seriously responding to the way the Government intends to ensure the actual independence of the public media and that the various supervisory councils, the holy public institutions, will also be composed independently, that they have such a programming policy in public institutions, that journalists can actually report and write, free from the pressures they are now subjected to. I think that, as I have already said, a very serious debate should be opened and held at the next meeting. We hope that our citizens will be able to see this debate with the help of transfers, which is one of the basic requirements for democratising our media as well as democratisation in Slovenia in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u88	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 71 of us present, 26 votes against 43. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 43.]] No decision is taken. The device's not working. Is it working now? Can we do it again? Please, we're going to vote again. We're voting. There are 73 of us present, 27 votes against 43. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 43.]] No decision is taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - TO THE ENDED SECOND DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE TRAINING TRAINING. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments will be adopted if they are voted on by two thirds of the Members present. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We will vote on Article 2 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this Article. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 72 of us present, 30 votes against 36. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 36.]] The decision or amendment was not supported. We are voting on the second amendment to Article 2 as well as the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. There are 72 of us present, 26 votes against 41. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 41.]] This amendment didn't get any support either. As no amendment to the draft Rules of Procedure has been adopted, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will hold a third reading of the draft Rules of Procedure on Thursday 27 March 2003, following the conclusion of the final item of the agenda of this meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to break three. Period of the day - Second defense of the proposal for a law on non-property business. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on Article 5 and the three amendments to Article 5. The first amendment of the SDS Group, the second amendment of the LDS Club and the Member Group of the United Nations and SLS and the third amendment of the New Slovenia Group. I'll put it to the vote in a row. We vote on the amendment under point 1. I'm at 65. There were 23 votes against 39. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. I'm putting an amendment to the vote under point 2. We vote on the amendment under point 2. 59 present. The vote was 53, 2 against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are also voting on the amendment under point 3. We're voting. I'm at 66. 23 votes to 43. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. Article 6 includes two amendments, the first is the New Slovenia Group of Members and the second amendment has also been tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Members. I will put these two amendments to the vote. Amendment under point 1 first. Comrade Aloys Sok, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members and Members! We have tabled two amendments to Article 6 of this Law for a simple reason to improve this Article, which, as stated, seems completely unacceptable to us. If you look at the second paragraph of Article 6, it shall indicate that the competent minister may change the insurance sum referred to in the first paragraph each year for each calendar year. We believe that such a solution is contrary to the Constitution in law. The law cannot allow the Minister to arbitrarily alter any registered company carrying out real estate business each year to alter certain conditions. Thus, the Minister can influence the business of individual companies. That is why we have tabled these two amendments, and in fact I am very sorry that both the proposaler and the ruling coalition are not more, I would say, decided and discussed this law in Parliament, because some of our amendments have been adopted by the working body and some have not. We therefore propose that these two amendments be supported and, in essence, amend Article 6 of this Law. It is indeed unacceptable for the Minister to change insurance premiums to real estate companies every year, at his will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you. We're going to vote now. Explanation of the vote, Comrade Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Only within the framework of the Voice Explanation Instrument can I say that Article 6 which speaks of liability for damage and insurance liability is a good article. This content is a new content, so far the law has not laid down at all. If there was a debate this morning, we could argue in the debate why we cannot support your amendment. However, at a meeting of the working body where the amendment was the same in the procedure, both by the representatives of the government and some others, it was said that it was a misinterpretation of the responsibility here, in which case it would be the minister. It's a misunderstanding. I myself have dealt with this law and this provision. We have consulted people who are involved in ensuring liability for damage and have advised support for such an amendment. I won't support him on my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u92	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We vote on the amendment under point 1. 71 present, in favour of 24 votes against 47. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We are also voting on the amendment under point 2. 68 present, 20 votes against 46. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing this amendment didn't get any support either. We are moving on to Article 8 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this Article. My friend Sok has the floor. Before that, there's something I'd like to draw your attention to. We had a public debate on this - so that today we would not turn the Institute of Explanation into a debate you didn't want to have earlier. Nevertheless, I now give you my word, but I only ask for explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I think, Mr President, that your comment was inappropriate, because, as Vice-President of Parliament, you do know that Members have the right to explain their vote. I do not intend to do anything but explain my voice, but you will have to discuss in this great coalition how you will conduct Parliament's meetings, or, as yesterday, the Presidency has taken the floor for us members of the opposition, whether you are making a pact today when you are also denying us the right given by the Rules of Procedure. If you allow me, I would like to explain that we are proposing that the conditions in Article 8 also include the active use of Slovenian language. I will strongly vote in favour of this amendment, because the European Union has finally us, and here yesterday the President of the European Parliament has also reminded us that we have to take care of our own mother tongue, which is spoken of as a Slovenian, and I do not know why we should oppose it. I think there will be more Members here to support this amendment. I also understood Mrs Silva Černugelj's debate in this direction that I would like to support this amendment if the speakers were already present here in the morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u94	Thank you. Victory, Jelinčič, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Soko, who says that this delivery about the Slovenian language or the active knowledge of the Slovenian language should be included in this article of the law. Without Slovenian language there will also be no Slovenian real estate market. And the Slovenian language is what we have left, where we will maintain our integrity, our culture and our national essence. I know that there would also be a lot of people from this round space, which some call a circus, because there are four-year-old circuses, but they are round, and there is a lot of people here to forget the Slovenian language. However, I think this is one of the rare occasions where we will be able to express our Slovenian essence and the concern that the Slovenian language and the Slovenian nation will not sink into the European pot. I will therefore vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u96	Thank you. I'm also a colleague of Janez Spožnik's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you. Article 8 speaks of foreign natural persons. Why don't I support this amendment? Because I've been asking around. We also discussed at the working body meeting that, if I may say so, the roofing law is the law, I do not have it before me, I think it is called the consumer protection law, which specifies exactly what the duties are. It says exactly who and how the Slovenian language must be mastered, so the roofing law provides for this. It was therefore already stated at the meeting of the working body that such a provision was unnecessary for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you. Janez Petty Officer, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I just want to say this for a second. If we lose our identity, we will lose our culture by our own negligence, not by our integration into the European Union. Above all, how will we know ourselves in a delicate and determined manner to take the right steps. And that's one test like that. Whenever this happens, no one will blame us, for others in the European Union or in other countries expect the same of their own culture to be respected. I will support this because it means the necessary protection for a small nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u100	Thank you. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment myself. However, I cannot accept the interpretation that there is no need to state this in this law. I think that there are also interests behind such proposals that are present in the real estate market. However, I believe that even in this area, those who are engaged in such trade must have the power of the Slovenian language. Years ago, when we were given a country of our own, we made it clear that people who live with citizens must actually take a test out of the knowledge of the Slovenian language, and now because of the various material interests, this provision in many laws in many areas is trying to deny it. The President of the European Parliament, Pat Cox, also gave us a good incentive yesterday to protect his language and identity. I think that any excuse that this might not be in line with European standards would be excessive and inappropriate in this place. I think it is useful, even due to order in the real estate market, that the provision on knowledge of Slovenian language remains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u102	Thank you. Now Maria Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. I believe that this amendment should also be supported because this law also mentions Slovenian as a national language. It is no big deal if only active knowledge is written because the Consumer Act, which you say is a roof law, specifies exactly how much of that knowledge is needed. However, it is quite right here that there is an active knowledge of the Slovenian language. That is why I will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u104	Thank you. I'm also a colleague of Kelemin's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I would only like to explain to respectable colleagues and colleagues that - as Mr Podobnik also said - the consumer law does not say about real estate, real estate is not consumer goods. This is purely a specific product exchanged between individual actors and is not consumer goods. I also think that, despite the fact that the Constitution also says that the official language of Slovenia is Slovenian, that it also writes a lot more, that it is business in the official language, the Slovenian language in Slovenia, I think it would be wise to write this in this law, because many times, if you think we are duplicating some things, it is wrong - because many times we double things that are already written in other laws, and then we re-write them in other laws because of the specifics of a law. We did the same earlier in the Law on Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, where we write some lame things that are not necessary at all. For example, we had to record in particular that each Member has the right to access all the documents of the Commission of Inquiry. This is the constitutional category of each Member and Member of Parliament. It doesn't have to be written specifically. The Law on Members also states if you know him, whatever it is, that Members have the right to all documents. It says here. However, we have again written in the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation that Members are now entitled to the documents of the investigation, although this is a specific matter. He says he's going. We always make excuses for something, the roof law, the roof documents, such as the constitution, other laws. I think it would not be too much if we also wrote here that it is necessary to take into account that these documents are written in the Slovenian language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr. Paula Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you very much. It's a great topic to talk about. Knowledge of Slovenian language seems to me a condition for every job, for every form of life in this country. Given that we are going to go knowingly Slovenians, at least those who are here, I expect you to do the same as I do and vote for the amendment. I am convinced, however, that if there were now direct transmissions on any television channel or program in Slovenia, there is no hero here who would say, "I will not vote for this amendment because the Slovenian language has already been written somewhere in that and that act." It's a shame we're talking about this. If it is written a million times to know Slovenian, it is not enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you. We've exhausted the explanation for the voice. Pursuant to Rule 73(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the Slovenian People's Party's Party shall request a five-minute recess to prepare for its decision. So five minutes' rest. At 5:07 a.m., we continue to make decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u109	Colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats. Let's get back to work. We will move to the vote on the amendment to Article 8. The SLS task force requested five minutes to complete. I give the leader of the Group my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u110	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Thank you, too, for allowing us this brief consultation. During this time we have obtained the applicable consumer protection law, and this in Article 2 and paragraph 1 states, quote: "It is with consumers that the company is obliged to operate in the Slovenian language and in the written communications to use the full name of its company and its seat." This provision will also guide us in deciding on the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting! There are 65 of us in attendance. The vote was 29 to 30. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 9 and the amendment of the LDS Member Club, the United Nations Group and the SLS to Article 9. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There's 63 of us in attendance. 54 votes against 3. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 12 and the amendment of the same groups of Members to this Article. We're voting! There are 57 of us present. It's 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 22 and the amendment of the LDS, United List and SLS to this Article. We're voting! 56 present. It's 46 votes against 5. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 23 and the two amendments to this Article. The first was introduced by the LDS Club and the United Nations Group of Members and the People's Party and the second by the New Slovenia Group of Members. First, on point 1 of the LDS, UK and SLS groups. We're voting! 56 present. The vote was 48, 2 against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the amendment under point 2. We're voting. There are 67 of us present, 24 votes against 38. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 38.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Articles 33 and two amendments to this Article. They are both invested by the New Slovenia Group of Members. Comrade Aloys Sok's explanation of vote to the 1st Amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you very much. If the chairman allows me, I'll just give the two amendments an explanation. I think that these two amendments should be supported, because we have repeatedly warned that we are deciding in our laws on penalties which are too high, according to our own, I would say, the economic situation in this country. See, the penalty of up to 30 million Slovenian Tolars for failing to draw up a good contract if one fails to comply with a small regulation under this law is obviously so high that, of course, it does not work educationally but destructively. 30 million fines, of course there is a range of between 3 and 30 million, and for a small real estate company, it can be a devastating punishment. We should therefore be a little more aware of what this actually means. We propose that these penalties be reduced so that we do not create monopolies through criminal policy in this area, because that too can be done. High penalties can create a monopoly in this area. I therefore propose that these two amendments be supported and I myself will vote in favour of these two amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you. Can we vote now? Amendment number one first. We're voting. There are 72 of us present, in favour of 28 votes against 39. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 39.]] Amendment number one is not accepted. And an amendment under number two. We're voting. There are 68 of us present, 26 votes against 39. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 39.]] Amendment number 2 is not accepted. Three amendments have been tabled under Article 36 by the New Slovenia Group of Members. First, I shall put an amendment to the vote under point one. We're voting. There are 69 of us present, 23 votes against 43. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 43.]] The amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting an amendment to the vote under number two. We're voting. 69 present, 20 votes against 46. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment under number 2 is not accepted. We are still voting on amendment number three. 69, in favour of 21 votes against 42. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 37 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this Article. We're voting. 75, in favour of 29 votes against 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have yet to decide on Article 37a and the amendment of the LDS, the United List and the SLS. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. We're voting. At 62, 52 votes against 6. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I note that the amendments to more than a dozen articles have been adopted, so the assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: "The draft law for the third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." I shall put the motion to the vote. I'm calling off the vote. Explanation of the voice, Victory of the Elinčič Trinitarian.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would suggest to the government that, in spite of everything, it should consider introducing the Slovenian language into this law. As I know, there are approximately 60% of non-Slovenian companies or people on the real estate market, especially Croatian real estate companies. I think that the Slovenian country should also be protected in such a way that, if they already have their own companies here, they should speak at least in the Slovenian language. I would appeal to the government to consider that Slovenia is here. Let him remember those early years, the 1990s, when we fought for independence and independence and when the Slovenian word meant something, don't waste it in such an easy way.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u115	We're voting. We vote on the proposal for a decision. 61 present, in favour of 55 votes, none against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one's against it.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm moving to four. Period of the day - another defense proposal for the Home Register Act. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to Articles 25, 28 and 29. We will first vote on the amendment of the first-signed Dušan Vukko and the group of Members to Article 25. We're voting. 55 present, in favour of 48 votes against one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Mr Dušan Vukko also tabled an amendment with the Members to Article 28. The amendment is substantively linked to the next amendment. If not adopted, the amendment to Article 29 of the same Applicant is irrelevant. We will vote on the amendment to Article 28. We're voting. 57 present, in favour of 51 votes against one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We now have an amendment to Article 29 of the same proposal. We're voting. 51 present, in favour of 48 votes, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one's against it.]] The amendment was accepted. This concludes the vote on the amendments. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, on the basis of paragraph 1 of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if more than one third of the Members oppose it. This motion for a decision shall be put to the vote. We're voting. 65, in favour of 48 votes against 15. [[The vote was 48.]] 8 versus 15.) The decision is adopted. I therefore note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law on Thursday 27 March 2003, following the conclusion of the final item of the agenda of this meeting. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments adopted and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I'm moving to five. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Guilt Correction Act, second treatment. We are therefore continuing with the second reading, that is to say, the decision on the amendments tabled. To Article 1, the New Slovenia Group tabled an amendment which is substantively linked to the next amendment to Article 2. If the first amendment, i.e. Article 1, is not adopted, the second amendment is irrelevant. The amendment to Article 1 will be decided. Voice explanation, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u116	I will vote in favour of an amendment that makes sense. Why should we restrict the application for rights over a period of time? We were already warned by the Constitutional Court and were told whether to set a reasonable time frame or leave it open. As is the case with the law on victims of war violence. I don't know why I'm here to limit myself to such an unreasonable deadline. If someone has an investment option, then let them have the opportunity to invest until, of course, this is exhausted. We have set a deadline, which also includes a constitutional initiative. I will therefore vote in favour of such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I myself will support this amendment for a simple reason, because injustice actually exists until it is corrected. Of course, it would be best to keep this marriage open without a hand. However, since it is not possible to amend this amendment, I think it makes sense to support it and at least extend the deadline until 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you. Now we're moving on to a decision. We vote on the amendment to Article 1. There are 71 of us present. The vote was 26 to 40. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Therefore, the amendment to Article 2 has also become irrelevant. I therefore note that no amendments have been adopted in the second reading and cannot be tabled in the third reading. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, I ask the legislature and the government if the law is inconsistent. Since there were no amendments, it cannot be inconsistent. Mr. Jenull says the law is not inconsistent. That is why we are moving on to a full decision on the law. May I have your attention, please? I'm calling off the vote. A colleague of mags. A trifle, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. This law on the correction of wrongs has been enforced several times. Apparently, he was wrong at first. If we look at it, it still has at least two controversial provisions. It is that those who have been pardoned for their guilt, thus gaining the status of the victims of these injustices, are still enrolled. So there's no legal basis to erase a conviction from the criminal record. They're still in criminal records, even though they're recognized as victims. Secondly, the provisions concerning beneficiaries of compensation are still unclear. This is also pointed out by the commission for the correction of injustices. I think that Mr Jaša Zląbec has also addressed the question of how this is defined in this regard. This law was deliberately enforced by the government, limited by a reduced procedure, so that these provisions would not be regulated. I don't think that's worth it. I will therefore vote against such a law because it is not worthy to bear such a name. He's not worth it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u121	Thank you. We are moving on to a full vote on the law. We're voting. There are 62 of us here. It's 51 votes against 7. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to break six. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE SUPPLEMENTING OF THE ORGANISATION AND FINANCING OF TRAINING AND EDUCATION, REDUCED PROCEDURE. We're in second gear. The amendment of the parliamentary groups of Social Democrats and New Slovenia is tabled under Article 1. We'll decide on this amendment. Voice explanation, Ana Marija Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me explain my voice. I am an MP from the countryside, so the problem of rural students, students and their families may be a little closer to me than to those living in the city. In two ways, we could resolve the issue that these students and students would have the same opportunities to study as they do in cities. The first way is to distribute the school network evenly across Slovenia as much as possible. Another way is to allow as many students as possible to go to school. In many rural families, where the standard is already so low as the city’s, they cannot afford to train their children. I will therefore support this amendment, which also takes into account the number of children in education elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 26 votes against 42. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded the vote on the amendments in the context of the second reading of the bill or the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been adopted to the draft law, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a full decision on the law. Vote explanation, colleague Janez Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u124	Colleagues and colleagues! I'll support the marriage. Article 1a reads: "The Minister responsible for education shall issue within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act a sub-legislative act setting out the procedure and criteria for the subsidisation of transport referred to in the preceding Article." The previous article also speaks of dependence on the social situation. I will support the law with the expectation that when the minister writes a sub-law to include more family beneficiaries in the social situation, this is an important social criterion on the basis of which the criteria will be decided. That's why I'm going to support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. I will vote in favour of the law, though with bitterness. It was set up very well, it was set up fairly, so that indeed those who are far away and living in difficult situations would have access to our educational system at least as well as children living in urban or suburban centres. It has been suggested that the state would have little respect for its definition of young people and in education the future of our people and development, in the hope that this will be achieved, but unfortunately, as I said, we note with bitterness that the old scenario is repeated that the ruling coalition does not say "no" on such important issues, but the proposal so degrades, so divisive that it minimizes the fact that the right remains written, but the right so that these children will never be reimbursed for transport costs or in extremely small sums. I will support, in the hope that we will soon be able to amend this law and see children more fairly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you. Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u128	The law is before us to accept it. Of course, there was something else left of that basic version. I would point out that the law would be impossible to enforce. Students will fly with different papers, from income, from a certificate of distance, about family, wages, I don't know what else, kilometers. [[...]] However, the right to education is crucial, and it could be more basic criteria, social, somewhat balanced or nullified. It's the only thing that can be taken into account, or it's impossible, you'll see. There will be a lot of problems in implementation and the law will have no real effect. From a good and noble idea will come out a creak. But there will be some effect, so I will vote for it to be at least something.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you. Rudolf Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Only the wise know that the final money can't be arranged. If we had a lot of endless money, then we could certainly adopt this law in the form it was put in, but until we have enough to pay teachers or investments, including from health care to education to the rest, we need to distribute it to those who really need it. It does not seem fair to me that someone who lacks money will get money for a child, but he has a better salary than Members and others, and therefore I think a fair model is only a model that takes into account the social criteria in the state in which we are. I think that we have united ourselves in this regard on the Committee on Culture, Youth, Science and Sport, because no one has opposed the solutions. For this reason, we seem to have listened to the opposition's position, accepted their arguments, improved the law as far as it could be improved. What is ahead of us will certainly bring for the poorest layers a greater opportunity for education, especially for children from rural areas. That's why I'm going to support this marriage. However, if we had money to spare, but this is once again a question, and I am sure that all Members of this National Assembly would press the button to give all children who need money for schooling a subsidy that would cover 100% of these school transports.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u131	Thank you. Dr. Andrey Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u132	Thank you, Mr. President. I will vote in favour of this law, although I am well aware that what is left of it, if compared with the original proposal, is actually very little, but this is also little needed mainly for our villages. In my constituency, I know how many such situations there are where the obvious equality of opportunity is really an empty word. Such an approach, as in this original proposal, would also be a positive step towards a better development of our rural area, a more equitable development and a better life for all our people. But I am very interested in the proposals and I am concerned about the representatives of the great coalition who are concerned about what is happening to our resources. However, I do not see the same approach when purchasing bankrupt banks when the opposition suggests that it should come to proper control once and for all where necessary. But then you weren't there. But when the moment comes that our people need to be supported, then remember that we have problems in our public finances. And let us be the learning society. No, no, no, no, no! In Ljubljana and in Maribor in several cities. That's all that's left of your talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u133	Maximilian Lavrinz, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. According to these high-flying words, one wonders, of course, what is the difference between the dictatorship proposed by the New Slovenia parliamentary groups and the Social Democratic Party, and between the dictatorship we have before us and now we will confirm it. I don't see her in anything else, except that this dictatorship, which is now in law, is better, wider, and this narrower, because it sets some criteria that are completely irrelevant to my notions. In this national assembly, we have already accepted such craziness, on the basis of those proposals on the part of, for example: a supplement for large families. My family, the Kicker's family and the Robber's family get 50 grand this year. Why? Because we have big families. Listen, if the constitution says we are also a social state, this social note should in fact be installed everywhere. And there's been a lot of crazy. We had, say, a tax exemption for large families. Gentlemen bought Mercedes, and they forgot about vans, for example, for those families that had five or more children. Please, gentlemen! Be serious, read what the law says and of course in such a case benevolently press now for, and you can be very, very pleased
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u135	Thank you. Marco Diaci. Dr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u136	I would really like, Mr Vice-President, to have at least you follow the rules of procedure and not allow a debate is an explanation of vote, and to remind Mr Lavrinc that when he advises others to read something, he should read the rules of procedure himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u137	Thank you. Marco Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. I will uphold the law, just as I have supported this amendment. It's an important goal. The aim is to improve the conditions of students and students in rural areas. But the discussions around the funds seem ridiculous to me. Why? We've decided to join NATO. In my opinion, we will have more costs with this, and in other opinions we will have less costs with this. And if this opinion predominates in terms of less costs, we have somehow saved enough money to be able to devote it to these matters even more, not less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u139	Thank you. And Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I will, as my fellow Members, support the law, although I also find that in the end this law has become frail and does not play out that original idea. But the original idea, as I understood it myself, was to align the countryside somehow with the urban environment. As soon as we enter into the law such criteria as have been adopted by the committee, then, of course, these criteria apply only to some. They certainly do not apply to those who have an appropriate school within their reach. And I cannot agree to these criteria myself, that we do not have enough money for such and similar proposals in Slovenia, but that we can buy government planes on the other hand, when some in Elan can distribute over a billion money and so on. As long as this is the case in this country, Mr Moge will not be able to convince me by then. However, we should urgently do something in this country to improve the image of the naturality of the Slovenian people if we are to survive in the European Union where we enter. That actually seems like a big problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u141	Thank you. And Anna Maria Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm going to support this marriage, even though I don't think it's what you want it to be. But there's something else I'm worried about. I am concerned about the underlaws as to how these beneficiaries can come to this fairly or with the least problems. Given that we have computerised all things today, I think we could minimize this bureaucracy, allowing as many as possible to really get that because it's not going to lead to dissipation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u143	Thank you. And Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support the law myself, and I am pleased that we have found so much maturity and so much energy and also the power to give these people or these students, students and, of course, students at a given time as much resources as we can from the budget so that we can allow everyone to have similar, at least equivalent conditions for schooling. Of course, I am aware, as we all know, that life is not ideal and there are no ideal laws. At this point, we have found so much wisdom and so much knowledge that we have drawn up such a law as I have already said to enable those students who do not have sufficient resources to have an equivalent education.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u145	Thank you. And Franz Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I will support this law myself, even though it brings only a minimum of what was in the basic marriage proposal. However, it is certainly interesting that, in each case, the issue of changing this law, or co-financing of the transport of students and students to school, still reflects the attitude of this national assembly to the policy of coherent regional development. It is understandable in itself that there is never enough or enough money for all that is involved in coherent regional development. This is also reflected in the law on coherent regional development, which is implemented only from 5 to 10%, as shown by the municipalities, to the financing of rural communities, as shown in all other cases relating to rural and rural development. See, there is also a fear that something will be saved, because if we continue to tackle this problem at such a pace, we will have a generation of beneficiaries, potential beneficiaries, halve, and in this way, I believe that savings will be achieved. However, I think there is another principle on the test: the principle of a learning society is so stressed. With that attitude, we are far from a learning society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u147	Thank you. More mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will support the legal text because, as we have now adopted it, it includes what we have been talking about - criteria must also be put in place for the distribution of funds. I am aware, however, that subsidising the transport of apprentices, students and students of higher education is not the only way or the only way to help ensure a fairer distribution of access to education. Therefore, I think it is essential that, at the same time as these measures, we also take measures that interfere with the network of schools and allow children from areas where there has been no schooling more frequently. [[I mean, especially high school.]] , have the opportunity to study as close as possible to their permanent residence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u149	Thank you. Even Ljubo Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support the law myself, because I believe that the text of the law has been improved through the debate on the committee. Why do I think so? So, with the government's order, 17% of school transports have now been funded uniformly, for all apprentices and students, and it seems to me that even when we are talking about coherent regional development and talking about rural development, when we are talking about fewer opportunities there, it seems important to follow these criteria in the rules we are also building on, with maximum support. At the same time, I would like to say that when we talked about the content of this law, we spoke mainly from the point of view of ensuring the quality of education. Not only is the quality of education a waste of time on long transports on the way to and from school, but it means the incorporation of different criteria, which we have also added to the text of the law, the basis where we will be able to realize what we are talking about today from various political parties. And I think we've set both targets at the same time. This means ensuring the quality of education for young people in education, i.e. apprentices, students and higher education students, while also introducing criteria and procedures for how we can share these funds. At the same time, I would like to point out that in recent years it has been built up to improve the social status of students, both on school nutrition and the provision of teaching funds, so that it seems to me that we are gradually building on these measures of school transport subsidies to improve the situation of secondary school youth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u151	Thank you. And Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will support the proposal for a change of law. However, the fact is that as much effort and words as some express when adopting individual legislation relating to the population, in this case, to the youngest generation in the demographicly threatened areas, is irrelevant, in fact, because the legislation adopted in this House has not yet brought about the least possible, not progress, correcting the possibility of development in the demographicly threatened areas. Very soon you will be able to see that you will not need to worry about these areas because it is in these areas - all the results, all the statistical results - show an increase in the number of people who are older or older. This was also demonstrated in the Sunday participation in both referendums from which the participation was the smallest. However, this section of the analysis needs to be done with the population, with the structure of the population living in the area, and this needs to be realized. If this country respected what was stated in the constitution that it was a social and legal state, then there would be no such anomalies as billions of payments on the one hand, various Elanov, TV and, I don't know, SIB to the bank and so on, where much of this money is being prepared in external foreign accounts for new ownership or running electoral campaigns. That is not the case, but unfortunately the country's injustice leads in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u153	Thank you. I'm going to the vote. We are voting on the law as a whole. There are 70 of us here. It's 69 votes against no one. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda. I move on to the 22nd A-point of the agenda - the Defence Proposal for a Declaration of the National Assembly in connection with the Iraqi crisis. The proposal for a declaration was submitted to the assembly by Mr Jožef Školč, who I give him the floor to further explain the proposed declaration. Mr. Skull, you have the floor. Procedural? Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u154	Given that you have not previously allowed a debate or a motion before the vote to amend the agenda, which is possible and permitted by the Rules of Procedure, then, of course, I now ask on behalf of the Group for a 20-minute recess before we actually begin this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u155	20 minutes, I understand? [[Yeah.]] This is said, at 6:13 p.m., we continue the meeting by requiring a 20-minute recess before the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u156	I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall because we're going to continue our work. Let's get back to work. My colleague, Tone Anderlich, demanded a 20-minute break, which was a little longer. Do you have any messages from this break?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u157	I apologize to all those who came to the hall at the time of the announcement of the sequel, but it was delayed. It is obvious that it is not a good way to move points at the last minute, because things are expected at another time and people are preparing for it properly, this probably applies to other groups. So we needed a little more time to consult, not whether it was possible to continue or not, but how to end this point. In our view, it is now possible to continue and we will participate in the discussion and decision-making process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u158	Thank you. I give the floor to the proposer of the declaration, Mr Joseph Školč.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! I don't know if it's good that these things actually work like this on our noses, given that we have predictable agendas and that people are preparing for this, and given that maybe someone who's in a hurry now didn't even want us to get to some position related to the Iraqi war. But this is not as important at the moment as it is that we have a text that, as we have spoken on the committee and you have in the report, unquestionably expresses disagreement with the military attack on Iraq without the mandate of the United Nations or, as it is now written, without, if I am not mistaken, the support of the United Nations. Many are disappointed because it was weighed among the various words that express this disagreement. I would not have any difficulty accepting, I will say, even more difficult words on this scale, which is used in such documents, ranging from concern and surprise and regret, but if you want condemnation to resentment and even to get nuances. What is important is that this text, unlike other ideas that have been rolling around these premises, says that we do not agree with this war in the National Assembly. From here on, I understand the nuances that have been given to the Committee and which are likely to be expressed in this debate. This is certainly better than those positions that try to find the last reasons for this in the power of the Security Council or in the power of European politics. This would seem more hypocritical to me, especially from the point of view of a country of great size than ours, and the countries of engagement as ours. It would not be appropriate to teach European countries that they are obliged to harmonise more than we are willing to harmonise ourselves and that we are able to do more than they have agreed within the framework of the United Nations Security Council. The next two positions here are not particularly dramatic. Like someone said, they're dry, maybe they're too short. My purpose was to make the matter even more dry and clear. The decorations around what someone thinks should be left to others. What seems important to me in the next two positions is that there is no doubt that the government should seek to resolve this crisis in its efforts within the United Nations to formulate initiatives for this organisation and to adhere to those arrangements that are only possible within this organisation. This is also the case for hiring other actions to coordinate with the Council of Europe or the European Council, I apologize. If this is understood in the way it is written - and I talked about it on the committee and it seems important to me here too - then there will be very little manoeuvre for some solo action. In such an understood framework, of course, the Vilnius Declaration could not have happened either, so I am perfectly clear. In such precisely defined frameworks, it means that our government must essentially seek and coordinate its policy with these two organisations. And if we accept that, it doesn't seem like a small thing. If someone takes this as a frame for some other things, then it's a misunderstanding again. Therefore, these discussions are as important as that modest record. And it may also weigh those who are sensitive and cultivate any anti - American, anti - Arab, or any position in these situations. A decent policy should not be placed in these positions and international problems should be supported by these international frameworks, which have been and will certainly be a very big challenge in the future, just as it will be a challenge to the resolution of the problems caused by this war, which, in the absence of a misunderstanding, has also led to an unreasonable policy of this Iraqi leadership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u160	Thank you, Joseph Scholch. The Declaration was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent working body. Does the rapporteur want a word? Mr. Jelko Kacin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u161	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. At its 53rd emergency meeting on Friday 21 March and following the meeting today, the Foreign Policy Committee discussed a proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly on the Iraqi crisis tabled by Mr Jožef Školč. The members of the Committee received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which had no comments on the content of the proposal for a declaration in terms of its tasks. However, from a legal point of view, it considered that, in accordance with established practice, the text of the declaration should be added a preamble stating the appropriate business basis for its acceptance. Such a preamble could be added to the text of the declaration by the Legal and Legislative Service when preparing this publication act. Mr Školč, the proponent of the proposal for a declaration, Sir Jožef Školč, introduced the proposal for a declaration and the reasons for it, stressing that the declaration should express disagreement with the military attack on Iraq without the mandate of the Security Council of the United Nations and call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to support initiatives that will bring the Iraqi crisis back to the Security Council of the United Nations and the joint action of the European Union. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, considered that the views of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards the crisis in Iraq contained elements of the proposed declaration. He highlighted the position of the European Council of 20.3.2003, where the minimum unity of the European Union was reached in relation to the Iraqi crisis, and added that it would be good for the position of the National Assembly to be as close as possible to that position of the European Council, where the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is already in line with that position. The members of the Committee expressed their views on the crisis in Iraq in the debate. However, special attention was paid to the question whether the National Assembly should condemn or express regret the attack on Iraq. The Chairman of the Committee also informed the members of the Committee that most European governments had expressed their regret for the event and that such an indication had been supported by most members of the Committee. Many colleagues participated: Anderlich, Jakič, Jerovšek. On the contrary, John Janša felt that the adoption of the proposed declaration was not necessary, since both the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had missed a time in which it would make sense to express their views on the issue; I do not share his assessment. The members of the Committee then adopted the following amendments after discussion with 10 votes in favour and with no objection [[You have the amendments written in the report, so I wouldn't read it.]] . In order to assist in the discussion and discussion, you have also added a consolidated text of what the declaration should look like if all these amendments are accepted. The Committee supported the proposal for that declaration and proposes to the National Assembly that it, together with the amendments of the Committee, be considered and adopted at its meeting. The rapporteur shall be the chairman of the committee at the meeting of the State Assembly, as decided at the meeting of the Committee. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitri Ruple. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u163	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and honourable Members! As already mentioned, the government adopted its declaration on the Iraqi crisis on 20 March. Well, on the same day, the position which in many ways similar to the government statement was formulated by the European Council. For this position, I could say in one sentence that the main thing is that it is turned into the future. He says, "We are facing a new situation at the beginning of the military conflict", and then this document is intended for future actions, for the future, for what can be done to reduce woe and to solve as many problems as possible. Of course, one of the key problems in this regard is humanitarian aid, and in this regard I would like to draw the attention of the High Council to the decision of the Government, also on 20 March, in which the ministries in the composition of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Foreign Ministry, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Defence, are obliged to make proposals on Slovenia's participation in the resolution of the Iraqi crisis, a way of humanitarian aid. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, during today's day, they come from different centres of global policy, to the fact that there is a humanitarian crisis and that it threatens even worse. So today, for example, the Secretary-General of the United Nations Kofi Annan, what is happening in Iraq, has already declared the coming humanitarian disaster. In these days, Slovenia has taken the initiative to direct its forces in this area to operate within the framework of the Human Security Network, an organisation or group of countries in the Organization of the United Nations, which is dedicated to such activities, such assistance, such interests. In this group of countries there are countries such as Jordan, Austria, Canada, Switzerland, among others Slovenia has been a member for several years. And Slovenia has taken the initiative to try to find suitable solutions within the human security network, perhaps focusing primarily on Jordan and the region. With regard to the declaration submitted, I must say that the Government does not oppose it and that it is particularly valuable to us that part of this declaration which speaks of the future and which speaks of resolving the humanitarian situation, so we are the government and Parliament on the same footing as regards issues relating to the resolution of the humanitarian crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u164	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will now give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups for the views of the delegations. The word wishes the Party of Youth, Bogomir the Grandchild.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u165	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Members of the Youth Party Group believe that this is a very milky declaration, especially now that it has been corrected, in view of the very real and horrifying events that the Iraq War brings. We miss a more severe condemnation of war, and if we don't already know what to say, we could copy a statement by some world leaders, including those who were already visiting this House today, and if we just take advantage of a visit by the President of the Federal Parliament of Germany and take German policy as a model - for example, as Joschko Fischer said, "this war is illegal" or, as Chancellor Schreder said, that he is "destroyed by the wrong decision of the United States". This is how we miss such a word in the Youth Party's parliamentary group. Otherwise, I think that we are being pushed against the wall, that no one will condemn us or accuse us maliciously of supporting the Iraqi regime. Far from it! That's why, I'm going to say, with a heavy heart, we're going to press "for" and we're going to support such a declaration. But we are protesting the way it happened. And here I do not mean Mr. Scholch, who has tried and proposed some form, but we miss the more upright attitude of this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u166	Thank you, colleague grandchild. Slovenian National Party. The position will be given by the Victory of the Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We believe in the Slovenian National Party that the declaration should contain a dictatorship that the National Assembly condemns the military attack on Iraq without the support of the United Nations Security Council. We would regret the attack if the attack were carried out with the support of the United Nations or the Security Council. But without support, we can, of course, only condemn this attack. I think that's the word that's missing in this declaration. However, we understand the plight of some political forces in Slovenia, which, because of certain preferences in certain geographical breadths of the globe, have to use nice expressions and not too strong views. It is also a mistake to wait for five days of military action to wake up and submit its declaration. Kolga Školč was so strong that he brought the matter to the Committee on International Relations in one sentence, and in the Slovenian National Party we consider that that clear, short and unequivocal declaration on the conviction of a military attack without the support of the Security Council should be adopted. Now we've got some hybrid in front of us that's supposed to look kind of benevolent on all sides, and yet it's supposed to fill the void. At least it may be good that the second paragraph of the declaration mentions the umbrella of the United Nations, because without this it would be possible and possible to take any soloist action by some Slovenian politicians through a niche that would be allowed by a diction without mentioning the Organization of United Nations, to bring in some transports of the American military force through the Republic of Slovenia. It is also the agreement of the National Assembly with the European Council's statement on Iraq that the fire is actually put out. The humanitarian crisis in Iraq is not from yesterday, and if you just follow foreign media, you will see that the humanitarian crisis in Iraq has lasted for at least ten years. Now this crisis has deepened, deepens and will certainly be even worse in a few weeks. We must not forget that since the first Gulf War, there have been serious injuries and genetic changes in newborns around Basra, that the number of births has risen by ten times, that more than one million children have died in the ten years of this humanitarian disaster and crisis, when the United Nations, despite the declarations, has not supplied medicines; that even in Basra, the use of depleted uranium ammunition has increased the rate of cancer and cancer by at least seven times. I think it is time for us to accept this declaration, and despite the fact that we consider it milky in the Slovenian National Party, we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u168	Thank you. I give my word to the United List, Mr. Miran Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The attack by the United States of America and its allies on Iraq has so much significance that it must also be taken by the National Assembly. In its views before the attack, the United List of Social Democrats stressed the need to make use of all available political and diplomatic channels to resolve the crisis peacefully, to ensure that international inspectors, even when pressured by the international public, can ensure the disarmament of Saddam Hussein and that the United List of Social Democrats will agree with the use of force only if it is verified by an appropriate decision of the Security Council of the United Nations. In the wake of the attack by the United States and its allies on Iraq, the United States list of Social Democrats assessed that the decision on the attack was unilateral, premature and adopted without the consent of the Security Council of the United Nations; that not all measures to disarm Saddam Hussein had been taken on a peaceful path and that the continued success of the operations of the United Nations inspectors was still a real possibility. We have estimated that the conduct of the United States and its allies is in stark contrast with our views and expectations so far and that we therefore deeply regret it. Today, six days after the attack, the outline of all the dimensions and consequences of the attack and the war in Iraq is already clearer. In the assessment of the act itself, the Council and public opinion are divided more than any action in recent years. The approval of the attack is very small, perhaps a little more understanding. But a very large part of humanity, a very large part of public opinion, including in Slovenia, wanes at the level of emotional reactions during the fear of the possible consequences of war, amid the regret of civilian casualties, during the decisive opposition to the right of anyone to use weapons to prevent a future more or less indirect danger, up to the clear condemnation of politics, which means negating the principles and rules of international law, which shows the tendency to establish rules or at least practice, in which one country and its policy could decide on war and peace everywhere. However, the division of the undisputed world and the weight of the words used to assess the conduct must increasingly replace the need and responsibility of what they do to resolve the crisis as soon as possible, to complete or halt the war as soon as possible, to prevent civilian casualties and humanitarian disasters, to restore the role and control of the United Nations Security Council to the end of the Iraqi crisis and to ensure the common readiness of countries, despite today's differences, to organise an international community to help the Iraqi people between and after the end of the war. Finally, perhaps in the longer term, the situations that have arisen require the international community to discuss and agree on how, in the framework of international organisations, especially the United Nations, as well as the European Union and NATO, to establish mechanisms and relations, not to repeat the principles of the international community for the peaceful settlement of disputes, to establish mechanisms for effective action by the international community in the face of imminent threats to peace in the world and that any future unilateral use of military force with the effective and timely functioning of the international community will not only become unnecessary but also unacceptable. Therefore, in our view, the latter should be a fundamental message from the National Assembly, as well as our direction to our diplomacy and to the government for its conduct. We will support the proposal for a declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u170	Thank you, Miran Potch. Janez Podobnik has the position of the Slovenian People's Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u171	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! We expected a much more positive atmosphere in the parliamentary group when such a declaration was adopted. I have to tell you directly that we are slowly losing our patience, slowly as we observe various arguments in the largest group of Members. That's what we're worried about. Such questions should not be addressed in this way. Our patience also has its limits in this area. You have to understand that. We don't want to be your hostages. We do not want to be hostages of the largest parliamentary group and of various views in our own parliamentary group. Today we have looked across all European parliaments and have not found any experience in adopting declarations by European parliaments, namely national parliaments. At least we didn't find any on their websites like that. But the government's been calling. And the governments have responded as they have. Ours picked up the next day, too. She did a good job. She also appeared in the spirit of pre-election time. And that's why that statement is so much more thoughtful and not bad. When we were invited by the Chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee to propose, by Monday 24 March to 2 p.m. at the latest, our proposal for texts on a possible harmonised proposal for a declaration, we took this very seriously and proposed some kind of our version of the declaration. We did our best, and we took a long time. The declaration, as proposed by colleague Školč, seemed to us to be dry: without the preamble, she had only two sentences. In a way, it is unusual for us to invent and collide on such important matters as this one Member. Our practice was different. Such declarations are accepted in a different way: either through the committee, or perhaps through other routes and seek consensus, but not by someone proposing something and then procedurally arguing here, who was five minutes or ten minutes ago. In this respect, we have been much more supportive, and unfortunately it was not possible, for some synthesis, as proposed today by the committee of colleague Kacin. That wasn't his declaration. But then, when we looked into it, it went into this text all the things that different parliamentary groups have proposed. This declaration also has a better language. It's the language of the declaration. What we accept today is a very dry sorrow. One great dry day's sorrow is upon us. Now, what do we do? At the meeting of the committee with colleague Kramberger, we did not raise our hands against them, because we had no chance to read the statement of the European Council. This declaration has the most energy, and this is positive, in saying that it supports the European Council's declaration on Iraq, in particular the European Union's commitment to actively participate in the resolution of the humanitarian situation in Iraq. And here's the point of accepting this declaration. If it wasn't for that sentence, then our declaration is completely guided. I hope, colleagues and colleagues, that you have read the European Council declaration. It is right to read it because it is an integral part of our declaration. In addition to very well summarizing the humanitarian aspect of this very complicated situation in Iraq, according to the data we have received here, it is also clear that a special UN Security Council resolution will already be drafted in the coming days on humanitarian aid and that part of the money that is intended for "Food oil" will be directed directly to address the humanitarian disaster in Iraq, as well as from data, it is clear that the Director-General of the United Nations Fund of Bellamy has also expressed concern about the situation of orphans in Iraq and have also found some resources. So this is all going in terms of this statement. However, we would like to point out that it may have been overlooked that the European Council declaration, which is also an integral part of our declaration, also speaks of expressing our conviction and our need to strengthen the transatlantic alliance, which remains a fundamental, fundamental strategic priority of the European Union. We will also accept this today and it is right to accept it. So, with this fact, as I said, we will support the proposed declaration. However, we propose an additional decision, which reads as follows: "Proposal for an additional decision by the Group of Members on the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly on the Iraqi crisis. The statement of the European Council on Iraq of 20 March 2003, which is an integral part of the declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, shall be published in the translation into the Slovenian language as an annex to the declaration." I would ask that this additional decision should then be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u172	Thank you. The LDS Emissary Club, Anderlich Tone has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u173	Mr Podobnik, as you know that wealth is, if there are different views and if there are common conclusions at the end, satisfaction is so much greater, and you will see that you will not be disappointed by the vote. I'm sure you know how bored I would be if all 34 thought the same and no one else would "strap" the thing. So from this point of view, I think it's a little dramatic to dramatize the matter, because it really isn't about any competition, it's about someone actually wanting to promote themselves here, whether it's Mr Skolcz or LDS as such, but it's just that it's been a few days since the war started and there's somehow no response from Parliament, parliamentarians, committee, the President of the National Assembly or anything else to join in drafting a declaration. And I think it is only necessary to welcome this initiative, and finally this declaration was made where it occurs, in the home working body, with the definition of amendments. And just the response to events, if this response is timely, has some weight. Today, we have even heard that it is too late to do so long ago. I don't think it's ever too late to say our position, our determination to be at peace, that we belong to those forces that oppose wars that oppose conflict resolution in the use of weapons. It is terrible when the last possibility of peaceful solutions to conflicts is overturned, and it is obvious in Iraq that too many ways have been exhausted long ago to solve the problems that were already there, both with Saddam Hussein's regime over the population and with the threatening danger of the weapons he has accumulated. Of course, it must be said here that when unilateral decisions are made that funds for peace interventions must be replaced by funds entering the war, that in our group the vast majority are convinced that it is necessary to regret that we are looking for a compromise, that this should be acceptable in a text when it comes to condemning a war that is not in accordance with an international legal order that does not comply with the conclusions of the United Nations Security Council, which in this case is that body, that institution in the international community that is actually called upon to resolve conflicts between countries and this, of course, in a calm manner, only in exceptional cases with war. Of course, some, I say, regret that it is actually a dilemma, whether the word "conviction" or "pity" in this text. It is right that we have agreed on this dictatorship, which is written down. But this taste remains. Surely there are still many questions of open and much dilemma ahead of us that we will have to resolve in the coming days. It has already been said in the introductions that certainly threatening threats to the humanitarian disaster and various other things that will come there, epidemics and various other requirements will require the engagement of Slovenia, of course under a very clear eye, under the watchful eye of Parliament and, of course, with its approval. It is certain that the times coming on this issue are quite dramatic and that the time will be when we will be able to discuss some things in this assembly, when we will have more arguments available, when those of us - as we have read - can further deepen into some of the positions adopted by various international organisations, as well as other countries. We will support this declaration in the expectation that the government will respond to all the things that will happen, that it will also launch initiatives in the direction of its competences, as stated in the declaration, and that our current situation and the expectation of the State of Slovenia with membership in NATO and the European Union dictates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u174	Thank you for the views of the parliamentary groups. I give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. So far, two of them have signed up, Aurelio Juri as the first and then Leo Kremjar as the next. Please Yuri, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u175	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The declaration in the proposed text is frankly difficult to support. Not because I would not regret the military attack on Iraq without the support of the Security Council, but the other way around. Since such regret is already self-evident for anyone who shows good will, it is for the seriousness and difficulty of the sin committed - let me remind you that it is a military attack by a UN member on another UN member without the authorization of the Security Council and is therefore contrary to the establishment of the Charter of the World Organisation. Thus, such a declaration regarding the seriousness, difficulty of this sin is inappropriate or too mild for me and, as such, the visions of many others and even more impetuous expressions of regret are useless. I would also regret military intervention if, with the mandate of the Security Council, that would mean the defeat of democracy. I just wouldn't convict him, because of course such an intervention would be legal. There's a difference. With this declaration, as it now stands, we will only be placed among the crowds, who, in order not to be unduly offended by the potent transatlantic ally and at least partially satisfy the expectations of the endangered public, seek in regret the word that is supposed to feed the wolf and preserve the goat even. The government has even taken the burden of responsibility for the use of force - if you have read its position - transferred to the United Nations Security Council because it has not, I quote, "successed to form a consensus and take decisions on the way to Iraq's final disarmament". That's what the government wrote. Someone else - we know - is adversarial to the unity of the European Union, someone else even again to France, who threatened to veto a resolution that would approve an attack, someone even abused Slovenia because it was too passive at the time of the crisis and so on. Please! The United States of America and the United Kingdom have nothing to do with this. Other circumstances have prompted these two countries to escape UN rules and, therefore, by this logic, we are taking offense to these circumstances, not to those who have committed sin. Colleagues and colleagues, I don't think it's right to think like that. It is a misrepresentation, the unfair original text of the declaration proposed by colleague Školč contained a very clear and determined conviction of a military attack, although without identifying the attacker that I think should be entered in the declaration. But since we all know who he is, we can cancel writing down the United States and their coalitions. By expressing regret, let us divide the blame on both sides, he claimed to be a fellow member of the committee and added that it would be better for Hussein to "spoke" and emigrate with his family. Of course I agree with that. That he did not do so, however, does not excuse the United States that without the approval of the United Nations Security Council, they attacked and thus carried out an attack that has all the characteristics of aggression against another sovereign State. By the way, I would like to remind you that even if the Iraqi dictator had left - as the American President had predicted - this would not have prevented allied forces from entering Iraq and taking control of it. The objective of military intervention is to free the Iraqi people from the tyrannical regime. That's noble, though. But it has no connection - let's be honest - with Resolution 1441, which is intended to justify such action on the conviction of Bush and Blair. This resolution refers to the disarmament of Iraq, the weapons of mass destruction and not the liberation or democratisation of Iraq. However, the Security Council had control over the implementation of this resolution. In contrast, he noted that this was taking place slowly, too slowly or not entirely in line with expectations. The main actors themselves, the Head of Inspectors Blicks and Baradei, last spoke of the accelerated cooperation of the Iraqi authorities and of the need and sense after the work of the inspectors. With regard to the alleged weapons of mass destruction, such a situation was entirely in the hands of the Security Council, which therefore concluded that there was no need for a different course of action. When the United States of America found - we ourselves know - that there was no support for a new resolution that would approve the use of force, they decided unilaterally and by their own free will to act, as they had obviously done long ago in their plan. To capture Iraq and bring down the regime, whether it owns or does not possess these destructive weapons. The logic that the United States imposes on us in this regard is that because the only superpowers who are therefore also the only ones called to judge what is and what is wrong or what is wrong with them, no one can harm them anyway if they are wrong. The United Nations, on the other hand, should provide humanitarian assistance. Well, that's it! Because I do not agree with this view of things because I feel that it is even a mistake to agree to such logic, I personally condemn the attack by the United States and the allies on Iraq. I regret the fact that these convictions for such and other calculations regarding the entry into NATO, which are forcing us to continue to be good-doers of the United States, cannot be overcome again and again by the responsibility to redirect war to others or to lead to such an extent that it is not legible and identifiable. If we are looking to the future, we should even demand an end to the attack tomorrow and the withdrawal of the attackers and an immediate start to the state of recovery that was created by the war. What is noteworthy in the declaration of praise is - someone has already mentioned - that the crisis should return under the auspices of the United Nations and the call on the government to activate humanitarian aid as soon as possible. I expect that only and exclusively from this title, that is, humanitarian aid and reconstruction of Iraq, and that, in line with the European Union, we will allow transport through national territory. At the end of this sentence - although, as I have already said, the declaration is invalid, weak, too mild - I agree with the additional justification of my colleague Školč as a proposaler that it is still better than the government's position, because it processes war or military attack and it is defined in no way by rejection, but not by other circumstances to which the government refers. That is why - although I have abstained from this proposal on the committee - despite my dissatisfaction with this text - because we have no better and better than the government - I will support the School's proposal, which the Committee has also supported, this time. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u176	Thank you! Leo Kremjar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Chairman. Comrade Podobnik said that this declaration is "a great dryness of heart". I think that the whole story is a big one, not a dry one, and that it makes it necessary to accept a declaration, whether the ideas of timing and timing or assessments can be such or different, and can be such or different. However, in my profound conviction, the National Assembly must say, it thinks about this matter and tries to say it through the declaration. The text of the declaration is built as - as the Minister has also said - that the last third decision is about the future, that in fact the second one is talking about the present and that the first one is talking about a very close and lasting past. As I very much agree with the third one who sees into the future and others who imposes something or calls on the government, so of course I am not quite sure that the first one is quite the right one. I can only make this first decision conditionally because I'm trying to interpret it in my own way. I interpret it by saying that in the words "the National Assembly regrets" I read the explanation on the other hand, which says that "in fact it is a form of expressing opposition to the military attack". That means a conviction. I think that we must read and that this is the essence of the matter, that we must read these three articles or these three paragraphs of the declaration in the same way as I explain them. If we all agree on this - or else before that in the word "support" instead of "mandat" - I must say that I would be much more fond of the first, original statement that Joseph Školč wrote and proposed, because it is very clear, unequivocal and in my deep conviction much closer to the vast majority of people in this country. The vast majority, who, at the same time, made a very large majority decision at the referendum and decided on what she had decided, did not matter in this combination. So, I would like to make a much nicer statement that the National Assembly condemns the military attack on Iraq without the mandate of the Security Council of the United Nations. I am aware that this effort must probably be made if we can help the government and this country to make it easier to drive some things in international relations. Personally, I am not quite sure that anyone is ready - due to small changes in texts, language, of course - to believe that something else is writing as it actually thinks. Therefore, in fact, I regret that the declaration does not condemn very clearly; here the word 'I regret' is more appropriate. Nevertheless, I will make this declaration. I'm going to back her up for this explanation because I want to understand her that way and that's how I understand her because I want to understand her so clearly because I've made it very clear what I think we're going to say with this declaration. That's why I'm gonna back her up. Also because I think we're talking about two different languages. We are talking about the so-called diplomatic language because we want to tell someone something, and we are talking about the declaration that we want to tell our people what this national assembly thinks about this matter. Because I think he's writing one word and the other, and he's writing one word with another for the reasons he's already given, I'm going to support the declaration. Once again, I will make it very clear that this means to me the condemnation of a military attack without the mandate of the United Nations Security Council. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u178	Thank you. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary-General with co-workers! Let me first say that the first debate on the Iraqi crisis in this House, which took place today or on the Committee the day before, is essential. Mr Podobnik mentioned earlier that they had looked online at the adoption of resolutions and declarations by the European Parliaments. I believe he didn't find documents like that. However, the fact is that this is a matter of such importance, such an important crisis, which has a significant impact on almost every country's policy, on the interests of each country, has been discussed several times in all parliaments. I recall that German Chancellor Schuesel, at the outbreak of European inequity or inequity with the United States, spoke before the German Parliament about the problem when the war had not yet erupted - such were the reports of the agencies - and that the chief of opposition, Angela Merkel and the Members, in an extremely comprehensive debate, highlighted the aspects of the Iraqi crisis. Once again, in Slovenia, we are faced with a lack of rules of procedure of the National Assembly, which does not allow the Members to request a government statement on important matters that still concern our country, the position of the government in which the general debate opens at the moment in Parliament. If we did not have a disability policy, we would certainly have proposed that. Compared to the percentage of Members required in the German or Italian Parliament to initiate such a request by one Member himself, and if only the percentage ratio were taken into account, he would have the opportunity, since five Members in the German or Italian Parliament could request such a position. And they demanded it and these debates took place. Even in the Italian Parliament, where it is known that Prime Minister Berlusconi does not have too many friendly relations with Parliament, he felt obliged to appear several times before the Italian Parliament. Members also requested such a debate. We can't do that. I am pleased that, with a slight delay, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy felt this need to take advantage of his business opportunities and convened this meeting in some way an open debate. If we opened this debate in time, we would be deciding today - in my opinion - on a substantially more balanced and complex text or define ourselves in the same way as those countries where the government came to Parliament in due time, in the midst of the crisis, when the world was deciding on war and peace. I agree that the declaration, which is the framework for this debate - although this is essentially too narrow - is actually dry. Minister Rupel also stated on the Committee that this original text is too small and does not resemble what is being produced by European parliaments. These are direct references to the Minister's words. I can agree with that. However, there is also guilt on the part of the Slovenian government, although the Slovenian government has the opportunity to come to Parliament and request a debate, it has not taken advantage of this institution. We, the Parliament here, cannot, of course, blind our eyes to the extremely complex consequences of the Iraqi crisis, the extremely complex consequences for the situation and the interests of our country. Before that, you can't close your eyes. I agree and I am sure that this attitude of the government and the ruling coalition towards this House has left us with a lot of delays. Now we are in an ungrateful situation when we are staring at a time when we are actually trying to do something like Parliament. Even in this House, there is no clear idea of what Parliament is doing in such a situation, with which the government must come before Parliament. In this declaration we are also faced with a complete rift within the ruling majority, within the ruling party. This is outrageous in such serious matters. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is still the right time for the Slovenian Parliament to also address a key issue and a key call, which, at a time when we are faced with a gap between ideal and reality - the idea that war will not erupt, we cannot achieve any more. The reality is different at this point. The reality is that, because of their narrow interests, European forces have split up, that the world powers in the Security Council have in some way actually repeated the mistake of European forces before World War II, that they could not say decisively "no" to a dictator, a tyrant who, according to some claims, killed 200,000 inhabitants of his own country. I will never be able to agree that some in this country are defending this dictator, a mass murderer, and that they are even falling statements, but this is not cheering for war, nor is it condemning the war that America is a more fascist country than Iraq and more fascist than Saddam Hussein, that Saddam Hussein is the value he has used, said the so-called Slovenian peacemaker, who is probably paid through the ministry to do his job as other mercenaries. Look, ideals like I said, we can't get back. However, we can regret the fact that Europe has broken apart because of these matters. As I said, it is still time for an urgent call and a request that Turkey and its army do not step into northern Iraq. I think it's very important. If Turkey enters northern Iraq, incursing part of Iraq in order to intimidate the Kurdish people, it will actually trigger not only a regional, global crisis. We know where the Kurdish people live, how severe the crisis can be, and how severe the consequences can be. I think that our Parliament and the government should advocate calling on all institutions in the world, the Security Council, the UN General Assembly to prevent the escalation of the war in Iraq. I agree with the need for regret, there is a war in Iraq. I think that there is irresistibility here and that partial interests, the very partial interests of the so-called European forces, have prevented diplomatic pressure from ensuring peace. I'm sure it could be secured. But that didn't happen. Today is an important question of what is the greater evil. To let dictators intimidate and kill their own people to destroy planes - as they have been unpunished for a long time with terrorist actions destroyed by dictator Gaddafi until Reagan sent missiles to his camp. Since then, there have been no more terrorist attacks on aircraft. Lockerby hasn't done it again since. I think we'd have some more Lockerbys by today. That's why it's a big dilemma. However, I am opposed, of course, to the fact that countries are interfering with such means. It is necessary to face reality and reality. I'm a great opponent in the war. At the same time, I am aware that European forces could prevent the world from killing before the Muenchen agreement. It is necessary to learn from history and not to misinterpret the Munich Agreement and the Munich events, as we witnessed at the morning session of the foreign policy committee. It is also a fact that those permanent members of the Security Council, who are able to vetoly prevent resolutions that are binding on dictators as well, have not tried to enforce their views on the resolution of the Iraqi crisis by citing the General Assembly. Because this institute exists. If the resolution does not go through or is vetoed in the Security Council, it is appropriate for the UN General Assembly to adopt binding resolutions with the same power as those of the Security Council. It is said that these countries have in fact agreed in some way - I must say hypocritically - to the current intervention in Iraq. So the problem of the Iraqi war is extremely complex. I agree that our Parliament would call on the government in due time for certain initiatives. I believe that it is now very relatively late for other initiatives to express regret, which, of course, I also express and oppose war, but it is in time. I would like to ask the Minister whether the Slovenian government will take any steps, what initiative towards what I have mentioned, to take or to campaign between countries, to prevent the spread of the Iraqi crisis by entering Turkey into war, by entering Turkish troops into Iraqi territory. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u180	Thank you very much! Replica Mr. Anderlich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u181	Mr Jerovšek does not miss the opportunity to be circumcised by the Rules of Procedure and, of course, also in some of the statements he made from another session, but he does involve them in this. That's why a replica is needed. For the first time, Mr Jerovšek, you have given a few signatures to the request for an extraordinary meeting, among other things today I have received - like all Members - one request. So if you are dealing with all the issues you have the opportunity to propose an extraordinary meeting, you could also come here and then you could have a discussion with the Prime Minister on the basis of, say, the various declarations you would make. You didn't do it. But it's okay! I don't blame you. But I don't know why you're reading this to the rules of procedure so you don't have a chance. In addition, there are other ways to do this. I object to the work of treating our citizens with mercenaries, because being an employee of a ministry does not mean that it is a mercenary of a government to do some business. Mercenaries are a perfectly clear definition. It is not good to talk about our citizens in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u182	Thank you very much! Replica to replica, please, Mr Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u183	First of all, I'd say to Mr. Anderlich -- when I replicate -- he shouldn't teach me about mercenaries. However, this word was most relevant in my youth when Patris Lobumba was demolished in the Congo and there was talk every day about mercenaries who had destroyed and successfully demolished, of course, the government of Patrice Lobumba. However, Mr Anderlich, it is the mercenaries that I have personally been told by a minister of your government, who is not sitting in this Chamber today, that there will be no mistake. So you'll be aware. I think that international relations are as familiar as they are. As far as I am concerned, I always have to deal with the rules of procedure: of course, I will get dizzy as long as such rules of procedure prevent Members and Parliament from having an up-to-date debate on current events. As a spiritual father or as the father of this Rules of Procedure, as the de facto President of this Assembly, you should know at least what you have deliberately prevented this House. Do you know the institute - say - in the German Parliament, "aktuelle Stunde" when they open the debate at any time? We do not have this option, and our Parliament has a capital for world events and state events. I regret to inform you in this area that you are responsible for the dissolution of parliamentary democracy in Slovenia. Of course, I'm not letting myself know that I don't understand the institute of extraordinary meetings. Calling for an extraordinary meeting is a procedure that takes about three weeks in our Parliament. With the Institute of Emergency Meeting, with reference, as you have installed in your Rules of Procedure, it is possible only after three weeks to come to a discussion on the matter, which is already a passport. In fact, the current up-to-date action in this matter is already a liability. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u184	Thank you very much! Mr. Anderlich, the replica!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u185	Mr Jerovšek, we could use a variety of methods to place a point on the agenda of the meeting if we did not participate selectively in the meetings of the assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u186	Thank you very much! I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! I think you explained what was necessary. You've already replicated twice. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u187	No! No! I believe you have a certain relationship with your party boss, but you have to give him different rules. But if I'm going to act selectively - we're still too kind to this rules of procedure that you've designed! Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u188	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! Mr. Kacin has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u189	Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, thank you for your floor! I'm not going to replicate anyone because I don't think this debate is meant for replicas. If there is a sincere desire to discuss the war in Iraq for this debate, it seems to me that such conduct is absolutely inappropriate. In my opinion, I am pleased that this debate is taking place now that media attention is smaller than it would be tomorrow. I will therefore first thank all those who have supported my proposal to put this on the agenda today and to hold a debate on this. For those of you who have already died in Iraq, this attack we're talking about came too late. For those who died before the attack or during the attack, he arrived too early. Right now, when we're talking about a declaration here, they're counting the new dead on both sides. Therefore, I find it rude to talk about this challenge in a way that is one of the usual agenda items. I would therefore ask my Members of the Group if they could abstain from discussions for so long that I could finish. It's never too late to accept a declaration. It's never too late. Our public expects the National Assembly to define itself and to shape its position to that end. The declaration we have before us is not written on the door to the nose. We don't even discuss it on the nose - as some people thought. She's just like she is. It's a compromise! I think she's better now than she was at the starting point. So I would like to say something about some of the concepts that have been used here. Condemning military intervention means more. It means to demand that this moment be interrupted, means to demand that the armies withdraw to their starting positions, means to leave the civilian population to those who return to this place. It means giving up the chance of a new Srebrenica massacre. It is therefore very important how we think and how we use it. Because if we say a, then we have to say b. That is why we can imitate those governments and parliaments that have used the appropriate dictatorship. It seems to me - at least in my experience - that the current version is certainly better than the one that was originally. Whether they have a mandate for what they are doing or not will be debated for a long time. We're not going to have a special influence on this. But it is right that our national assembly sign this declaration with a convincing majority of votes and that what our people expect is also said and explained. People mainly expect clarifications. We owe these explanations to them, not to replicate each other. I would like to apologize to my colleague Yuri for forgetting to mention his name among the debaters this morning. As you've seen, there were no last names in the report. I'm sorry I skipped you. I would also like to thank those parliamentary groups that have contributed to the desire to find as comprehensive a text as possible, even though we have now received something that is also drinking water. Please, that's not a criticism! But I think we will be able to organise ourselves in a timely manner in the future when these challenges arise, and we will draw up a joint ad hoc declaration for which the entire national assembly will stand. Such attempts or efforts should also be supported in the future. But there's something else. That's what needs to be said today. This story in Iraq has been going on for 12 years. They adopted 17 different resolutions, including the latter, called 1441. Nothing happened in the field of disarmament until it threatened the military. Only then did things start to move. Just as nothing has happened in the Balkans until it was threatened by military force - and in the Balkans that was not enough. It was necessary to manifest the use of military force to get things into normal frameworks. It is therefore important for me to support, on the one hand, the diplomatic efforts to ensure that the United Nations Security Council happens as soon as possible. But I don't want you on the Security Council or anywhere else to discuss how many victims there were, because there was no timely intervention. As far as this is concerned, we all have a big, big responsibility. The vast majority of our people regret the war and are against the war. I believe that there is no one in this national assembly between 90 Members and Members of Parliament who would say that it is for war. But we have a slightly different responsibility because we need to talk about what will happen tomorrow and what will happen tomorrow and how we felt when others were not there to help us. I am not defending the United States of America at all, but I ask that at least we put rationality into our debates, weigh among the bad options and choose the one that is least bad. That is why we have been elected, and that is why politics is our profession, and that is why we are expected to be able to explain some things, rather than be good when we think it is a majority opinion. It is only when people think superficially about things that they have to explain all the backgrounds and take responsibility for this explanation. I would therefore be pleased to end up supporting this declaration in as many votes as possible and to learn from this debate today what to do for the future. Because I just feel like this isn't the last debate, not about Iraq, not the war. This war is not the last, not the last, not the last. That's why we're going to do a lot more of this. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u190	Thank you very much! Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u191	Thank you so much for saying that. I hope that we have returned to the declaration and will no longer discuss the rules of procedure. I would like to express my own opinion, my own personal opinion, which is slightly different from that of colleagues and colleagues in the parliamentary group. I must say that it is similar to the opinion of Mr Kremjar's colleague. I will not support the amendment myself to the first paragraph, where the word of the sentence is replaced by the word of regret. Despite some clarification, I must say that these explanations have also confirmed the correctness of my decision. For if the word condemns the demand for an end to war, then I must say that I am for this war to cease, as it was said before. I think it must also be said that we are Members and Members here because we are the voice of the people. I think the people condemn this war and not only regret it. I don't think there'll be any harm or great trouble if we adopt such a text, where we will condemn this war and not only regret it. But I'd like to say another metaphor. The word regrets in itself. He complains when someone's already dead. I guess we're not all some congregation, and we haven't put ourselves in the funeral home yet, and we're not going after someone who's already in the coffin and he's dead. We may go because the one who is dead and who is dead in this story, the United Nations organization, is the public of a world that is mass-protesting, multi-million-dollar, and perhaps even international law. I don't think there will be any special harm and nothing big and shocking will happen, not for diplomacy, not if this Parliament adopts a declaration condemning and not regreting the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u192	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Silva Crnugelj. Here you go. No, no, no. Mr. Aurelio Yuri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u193	Thank you! Just for a little while, and a partial replica of two colleagues. In the context of the debate, we have heard some new justifications for this work - despite the fact that colleagues agree that it regrets the military intervention - which, in my view, are the continuation of some perverse logic. Look, someone said that a conviction of military intervention would be a requirement for the withdrawal of the attacker and for the abandonment of the civilian population as a consequence to those who kill. He thus refers to his forerunner, who says: What is worse, or to destroy and incapacitate all dictators who kill in their own countries, or to intervene? We're already coming out and leaving the area, which is supposed to be the legal basis for this intervention. This is resolution 1441, which speaks of alleged possession and threat after the use of weapons of mass destruction. Don't talk about the fact that now, on the basis of this resolution, we, the democratised world community, will clean up the entire world, where the dictators are, and allow people to live productively, in peace and in democracy. There is no excuse for that in this document. Even though it's in our desires. So it's overturned. Of course, what Jerovšek even claimed was better - let us perhaps draw up a list of further dictators that will have to be taken away, or a resolution of the Security Council. But if there is no resolution, with the intervention of the most powerful force in the world that no one can do. That's possible! Of course I can't accept that. I think it's already broken. The following statement, my colleague, that - which I agree with - must be prevented from Turkey entering Iraq. I agree! No one has the right to enter Iraq, neither the United States of America nor the United Kingdom and their allies have that right. Why, we found out earlier. Iran will also be able to enter tomorrow - There has been a talk that some have crossed the border - but this is one of the consequences of the breakdown of world order, the breakdown of rules. No one's gonna use them anymore, no one's gonna respect them. If one force enters illegally, why not do so to another, who also has his own interests. The system's falling apart. There's an additional problem in this whole story. I agree, however, with Kacin's call for this debate to be withdrawn, to support at least what can be achieved in this Chamber, so that we can commit and direct the Government's continued action on humanitarian aid so that humanitarian aid does not go through our territory, something else to coordinate with the European Union and so on. The only way I agree here is with my colleague Scholcz, so that we don't even have a Vilnius statement. That is why - Flower, I agree with you, you have heard my own debate, - I would like to introduce a sentence in this text very clearly, very resolutely. If that is not possible - I understand that I will not support ten regrets as well. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u195	Thank you very much! My colleague Kacin and I went to the same college in different generations. He's in defense, and I'm in the softer part of this college. Of course, this is evident in our view of certain things. That's all right! It's a good thing everyone sees it their way. Of course, I am not sure that this is the way it is needed, by force of force - if I have understood very well what Kacin said. I don't think that's the most important thing. In this regard, I would like to say two things. That is to say whether the United States of America has done so with or without a mandate will last and will last for a long time. In the first decision of the troika, we find that without the support of the Security Council. Well, for us and for me personally, of course, there is no dilemma here. The debates may be such or different, but it is no question to me whether the mandate is for this or not. That's why it's a conviction because most of the conviction goes this way, not the other way. Just one more thing. It's not about good-for-nothinging people. When I speak myself, I don't speak for myself. Even in this case, it is not a matter of flattering the people. My words have gone in the direction that it is necessary for this people to make very clear what this Parliament thinks about this. With me, of course, convinced that people feel the same way. With my statement, I don't want to be nice. I want to say that no matter what, even if this people thought otherwise, my opinion would remain the same as it is. It is very clear that I condemn this, even because it was done without the mandate of the Security Council. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u196	Thank you very much! First of all, Mr Diaci, Mr Podobnik, then Mr Kacin. Mr. Diaci, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. I believe that the declaration submitted by my colleague Školč is good enough or even the best we can accept. Therefore, I do not agree with the replacement of the word condemned for the word regret. For, not NATO, not the United States of America, but the Security Council of the United Nations, or the role and power of that organization, is, in my opinion, a guarantor of the peace of small nations and countries like us. At least that's what we have to fight for. Therefore, I believe that the word to regret is the same as, for example, to be severely bent, to be mistreated, to be severely damaged. This act, an act of attack against Iraq without the consent of the United Nations Security Council, should be marked by a word of condemnation. I will therefore vote against the amendment that changes this content. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u198	Thank you very much! Mr Podobnik has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u199	Madam Vice-President, you are now two former colleagues, and now the colleague has been talking about amendments. I understand that today we will not vote on any amendments. The amendments were an integral part of the declaration that we finally accepted. We will only vote on the declaration in full. I didn't get any amendments for the assembly. So there won't be a misunderstanding. Is that right?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u200	Mr Podobnik, if you will allow, since, in the context of the report, the amendments of the Committee are on page 2 to the first paragraph, to the second paragraph and to the new third paragraph.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u201	This is a very creative interpretation of the current rules of procedure and practice. Well done! Where did you read that? Oh, come on! So, please, the chairman and head of the National Assembly, not such mistakes in the procedure. Please! [[Talking to each other.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u202	So, my opinion is, Mr Podobnik, that in fact the Committee should draw up a supplementary proposal for a declaration and not call it that. The members of the committee have accepted the amendments and on page 3 we have a consolidated text of the declaration, not a complementary proposal for a declaration. The Committee supported the above-mentioned proposal for a declaration and proposes to the National Assembly that it, together with the amendments of the Committee, be considered and adopted at its meeting. He has not prepared a supplementary proposal for a declaration which could also be made by Mr Podobnik, and he has also been advised, says the Secretary-General. Mr. Squirrel, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u203	This is different from what we've been doing so far! This is contrary to the rules of procedure in force. I'm leaving the session, and I'm protesting against this way of working! I'm not gonna be there anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u204	Mr. Squirrel, let me explain! In the Rules of Procedure, it has clearly laid down that the mother's labour body is required for the law to draw up a supplementary bill when it adopts amendments because it is being dealt with in a multi-phase procedure. This provision for the declaration to be dealt with in a single-phase procedure is not available. I think it's a business commission thing. However, the parent’s working body could make reasonable use of the procedure used by the parent’s working bodies to draw up laws known to be treated in a multi-phase manner. It has also been advised by the services of the National Assembly to the labour force, so that it can, by example and by means of the determination of how the mother labour body prepares a complementary proposal for a law, also draw up a supplementary proposal for a declaration and offer it to the national assembly for admission. This was not the case with the mother’s working body. We do not, however, explicitly state that a single-phase declaration must be drawn up in such a way that the declaration contains an updated proposal for a declaration. Voting with the amendments! Procedural proposal, Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u205	It is clear that the instructions in the professional services were in the preparation of this report Please? [[...]] I'm talking about what was done on the board. In my opinion, there have been some misunderstandings in the preparation of the declaration between the professional services, which is what the assembly is supposed to have on the table and what it should decide. In my opinion it is clear that we have a declaration as a declaration, which, while in this text is called a purified text, but because there was clearly a different understanding - and on the previous page it says in the report that the assembly should accept amendments and declarations - means that some have understood that we also have amendments in the debate. I therefore suggest that you give five minutes of time to those who wish to table an amendment that would return the text to the original text, i.e. that in the first sentence the word "judgment" and the second amendment that speaks of the mandate. This is, in my opinion, the most correct thing to do. Because it is evident from the report and from the refined text that this power is also understood. Otherwise, I understand that the Committee has drawn up a new text. Clearly, the reasons were different at work. My procedural proposal is to give five minutes' rest to those who want to table the amendments. After this procedure, we will vote to the end. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u206	Thank you very much! This procedural proposal must be decided first. Anyway, I'm gonna stop this session. However, I think it is correct that the president of the parent working body, in accordance with the procedure they had, correct the report if it is necessary to make the matter clear. Because we are reading now so that the declaration is fully adopted and voted - I apologize, I am not a member of the committee - if so, then it is still possible to submit amendments to the already adopted text of the declaration as in the case of other laws. If this has been done, please complete the report in this direction in order to make it clear. That's why I'm adjourning the session in ten minutes. [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Grandchild, it's a procedure. The procedural proposal was for the suspension of the meeting. I'm adjourning the session in ten minutes. At 8:25 a.m., we will continue, and please try to resolve this misunderstanding at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u207	Dear Members and Members! In accordance with its decisions and with the meaningful application of the Rules of Procedure - which speaks of the preparation of laws at second reading, as was also concluded on the home working body - it will be written on the third page, where it is stated that it is a revised text, that it is a proposal for a declaration including the amendments adopted by the Committee on Foreign Policy. In such a way that the text we have on page 3 of the report, which will be fully addressed and decided by the National Assembly, we can make amendments. So, please, all those who wish to submit amendments to the report, which is on the third page of the report. Therefore, we will continue the meeting because I was informed that amendments to this text are being prepared - at 20.35. I hope the amendments are on the table at this time. One more time, then. The draft text of the declaration, which is on the third page of the report, is the subject of our decision and amendments may be made to that text. So whoever wants to table the amendments should do it. We'll try to continue at 8:35. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u208	We're in the middle of a general debate. Amendments still being copied have been tabled on the supplementary proposal for a declaration. The president of the home working body also prepared an amendment to the report. Dear Members and honourable Members! The amendments have been tabled, reproduced, and we'll get them on the bench. However, since we are still in the stage of the general debate on the proposal for a declaration, this time when copies are being prepared, amendments and amendments to the report - as I have already presented it - I ask you who else would like to discuss? Before we adjourned the meeting, I had Mr Kacin's name on my list. Mr. Kacin, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u209	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. You will receive an updated report on the bench, which also has the full text of the declaration, on which the amendments are now being tabled. We will therefore vote on the amendments that change, so to speak, the complementary comprehensive version that you have published on page 3. I'm taking this opportunity to ask you to reject the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want a word in the general debate? Because no, I am concluding the general debate. We'll wait for the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u211	As you may have noticed, the amendments to the supplementary proposal for a declaration are three. All three have been submitted to paragraph 1. Ambassador Aurelio Juri has tabled an amendment to the first paragraph, which he would like to read as follows: "The National Assembly condemns a military attack on Iraq without a mandate", also amends the word "support", "the mandate of the Security Council of the United Nations". Since it contains two amendments, we will first vote on the amendment of Ambassador Aurelia Yuri because he changes the word "judgment" and "mandat". The two remaining amendments, namely the Parliamentary Groups of the parties of young Slovenia and the Members of the Zalokar Orazem, are the same: in the first paragraph of the amended proposal, they want the word "deplorable" to be replaced by the word "judgment". Since there is also an amendment by Ambassador Aurelia Juri to this type of amendment and a change of the word "support" to "without a mandate", we will vote on this amendment. If this is accepted, the two amendments remain irrelevant. Unless this is adopted, we will vote once again on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia and the Ambassador of the Cvete Zalokar Orazem. This will be one vote because it is the same amendment. [[A voice from behind.]] Then we'll wait. I'm sorry. But I can introduce you to the text that you can think about, you have an updated proposal for a declaration ahead of you. Mr Juri wants the first paragraph of the declaration to be amended by saying: "The National Assembly condemns the military attack on Iraq without the mandate of the Security Council of the United Nations." The content of the existing updated proposal for a declaration is amended in the word 'deplores', replaces it by 'judgment' and 'without support' replaces 'without a mandate'. Of course, I will also open the debate on all three amendments to the first paragraph of the supplementary proposal for a declaration. Procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u212	I have no further proposal for a declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u213	You have before you a report corrected by your mother's working body on the back of the report, Mr Moge. Is he all right, Mr. Mogue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-25-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u214	I am putting to the debate the amendments I have previously presented and which I hope you have before you. All three amendments amend the first paragraph of the amended declaration in a larger or smaller part, which we now have in the package on the bench. I'm opening a debate on the amendments. Anybody want a word? Doesn't anyone want to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First of all, as I said, the amendment of Ambassador Aurelia Yuri. If this amendment is adopted, the two remain irrelevant because it also contains the text of the two amendments. We therefore vote on the amendment of Ambassador Aurelia Yuri. We're voting. There are 46 present, 10 votes against 31. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 31.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are also deciding on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party and Members of the Zalokar Orazem. We're voting. There are 48 present, 11 votes against 33. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing these two amendments haven't been supported either. That is why we are moving to a vote on the complementary proposal for a declaration. We're voting. There are 47 in attendance, 44 in favour, 3 in favour. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed declaration has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation. I am adjourning the 24th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you all so much and good night!
