ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, welcome! Please meet your esteemed cities. I also welcome representatives of the government, Minister. I will also welcome the Prime Minister when he joins us. Before that, we must adopt the agenda of the 36th extraordinary session. Before that, I inform you which of my colleagues are detained for other obligations. According to my list these are: colleague Brenčič, Onbulj, colleagues Janša, Kebrich, Podobnik, Pukšič, will not be a colleague of Trofenika and colleague Ana Marija Tisovic at the beginning of the meeting. You have stayed here and I welcome you once again and I wish you a successful day! We'll move on to the agenda. I have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda, so that, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure, we may also proceed to a decision. Anybody else want to say anything before that? Can I put the agenda, as it was agreed, to the vote? Okay. Please, can you check your voting devices so there are no misunderstandings? Please see if there's a yellow light on your voice box. I understand we can decide on the agenda. Please, we're voting. 56 in attendance, 49 in and 5 in. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it we've adopted the agenda for an extraordinary session. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Defence information before the conclusion of the Inter-Governmental Conference and the adoption of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, with proposals for conclusions. The information submitted by the Government for consideration of the assembly. I am informed that the Prime Minister of Mags will also be joining. Robbery. There is a foreign minister here, whom I welcome as well. Can I ask the Prime Minister to enter the hall? The Minister has informed me that the President is in the lobby and will be joining us any minute. Can I ask him to do so so that we can continue the meeting? Mr Minister has asked me to be so kind and wait a moment longer for the Prime Minister to arrive, who has some urgent business to do with the performance he will have just before the National Assembly. Thank you for your patience. Mr. Prime Minister Mag. Anton Rop is with us now, and if he's so nice, I'm gonna invite him to the speaker stage. Mr Prime Minister, I welcome you very much. You will have a further explanation of the information we have received, and you will also be followed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Now it's your word. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u2	Dear Members, honourable Members, the esteemed High Council! Today, the day before the final days of the Intergovernmental Conference on the Constitutional Treaty for Europe, we are gathered to review the progress, progress and results of the constitutional and intergovernmental process. This would lead to a unanimous proposal and the adoption of the first European Constitution. We're on the verge of a historic moment. For the first time in history, Europe will be able to politically unite under one single supreme constitutional act, valid not only for 15 current members, but for all 25 new Member States of the enlarged Europe. The conclusion of the constitutional process, which is taking place in the processes of deeper integration and enlargement of the Union with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, will undoubtedly confirm the end of the post-war divide line in Europe and its reunification. In the coming days, we should therefore confirm the Treaty of Constitution for Europe or the Treaty for a United Europe, if we may say so. The European constitutional process aimed at the adoption of a Constitution for Europe, instead of all the existing treaties, has virtually started in Maastricht and continued in Amsterdam and Nice. Already at the Intergovernmental Conference of December 2000 in Nice, it was found that the Nice Treaty does not offer all the necessary answers to the challenges of the European integration process, particularly due to the entry of new members into the European Union. The call for a thorough reflection on the issues of the European future, in particular with a view to improving democratic legitimacy and transparency in the functioning of the Union and its institutions, followed. The Union and its functioning and institutions need to be brought closer to people. The conference from Nice thus encouraged an organised debate on the future of Europe, which is expected to conclude with an intergovernmental conference in 2004. In December 2001, the European Council in Laekn issued calls from Nice on the decision to refer to the Convention on the Future of the European Union. The purpose of the Convention was to make proposals on the basis of the widest possible participation to improve work through an intergovernmental method and to answer open questions on the future European regime triggered by the Laeken Declaration. In the wake of the debate on the Convention, the idea of drafting a proposal for a single text emerged, which was formed at the conclusion of the Convention in a single proposal for a constitutional treaty for Europe. The Convention has ended and this can undoubtedly be assessed together with great success. Not only have representatives of national parliaments, the European Parliament, national governments and the European Commission participated in its work for the first time in history, but representatives of the countries of future members of the Union have actually been fully involved in its work. This gave the Convention a high degree of legitimacy and gained additional legitimacy through a fully open and transparent way of working. In this respect, she has fulfilled her mission to bring the debate closer to the debate on the issues of the European future for all citizens of the Union. The Convention addressed and assessed many options, over 5,000 amendments in 16 months of operation. Slovenian members of the Convention and a member of the Bureau of the Convention, Mr Lojze Peterle, have been extremely active in its work, have tabled several amendments, both the legislative and executive branches of the Convention have been involved in the work of the Convention. On the basis of their efforts, the Union's objectives explicitly included respect for linguistic diversity. A group of like-minded countries, in which Slovenia has been actively involved, have chosen a number of even more favourable solutions under the Convention. These can include equivalent rotations in the European Commission, the principle of equivalent rotation of the Presidency of Council formations and, last but not least, the limitation of the powers of the European Council and its President. The establishment of a forum on the future of Europe in Slovenia was also an important contribution to the wide democratic treatment and the search for consensus in Slovenian society on the challenges of the future European structure. This is based on an example of a forum for civil society representatives at European level. At the Slovenian Forum meetings, representatives of NGOs, civil society, governments and parliament followed the discussions under the Convention and thus brought the content of important discussions on the constitutional design of the future Union closer to the public. It is important that the Slovenian Forum does not stop working with the Convention but also continues to monitor the work of the intergovernmental conference. The work of the Forum has undoubtedly contributed and contributed to a transparent and democratic public hearing of the process of drafting the first Constitution for Europe. We can say, therefore, that the draft drafted by the convention in the discussions of the forum also gained legitimacy in Slovenia. Our success in achieving the objectives of the Convention has also been the result of a repeatedly confirmed fact that, in achieving foreign policy objectives, it is necessary to act on the basis of consensus among all the fundamental factors in the country. Slovenia was able to form an internal political consensus in the main and most important objectives of achieving the European objectives among the most successful candidates. This has made our activities much more effective and for the benefit of our citizens. At the adoption of the report on the results of the Convention, the Slovenian Government, the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Commission on European Affairs in the National Assembly positively assessed the results of the Convention contained in the draft Constitutional Treaty for Europe. The Convention justified the mandate from Laekn. The draft Constitutional Treaty, produced by the Convention, contributes to the effectiveness of the Union and its approximation to citizens. Regarding some institutional solutions, the Slovenian Government adopted a position, also endorsed by the Committee on Foreign Policy, that they could still be improved at the intergovernmental conference. This is mainly about the clear definition of the powers of the President of the Council, avoiding overlaps between the roles of the President of the Council and the Commission, ensuring greater equality between Member States and raising the minimum threshold for members of the European Parliament to a country from 4 to 5 as set out in the Nice Treaty. The Government has expressed its satisfaction with the equivalent rotation achieved in the Commission, taking into account the principle of equivalent rotation in the presidency of the formations in the world and limiting the powers of the European Council, which does not have legislative powers under this proposal, and its President. Undoubtedly, the greatest and most important success of the Convention is that it has prepared a single draft constitutional treaty for the conclusion of the Greek Presidency. This has been a great success, which has provided a foundation for the start of an intergovernmental conference. As such, the work of the Convention was assessed by the European Council in Thessaloniki on 20 June 2003 and the Italian Presidency to initiate the procedure for launching the work of the October 2003 Intergovernmental Conference. The Thessaloniki conclusions recommended that the Intergovernmental Conference should end as soon as possible, certainly before the European Parliament elections in June 2004. The acceding countries were granted full cooperation at the intergovernmental conference and it was also agreed that the Constitutional Treaty should be signed after 1 May 2004 by all Member States of the enlarged Union. Dear Members and honourable Members! The Intergovernmental Conference on the Constitutional Treaty, which began in October 2003 at the level of representatives of governments and foreign ministers, has so far been held in accordance with the calendar drawn up. In the coming days, the Italian Presidency is expected to prepare a comprehensive compromise package with proposals for addressing the most important open issues. These are in particular: the composition of the Commission, the minimum threshold for the number of parliamentarians in the European Parliament, the definition of qualified majority voting, cooperation in the field of defence. For some other issues, such as the rotation of the Council Presidency, the role and position of the Foreign Minister and the decision on the adoption of legislation in the field of finance and other budgetary matters, more detailed explanations will be given, some also in the form of protocols, which will form an integral part of the Treaty. The compromise package is based on discussions at an intergovernmental conference, in particular the discussions of foreign ministers in Naples and yesterday in Brussels. So far, the most substantive attempt at convergence of views on open issues took place at the ministerial session in Naples and at the ministerial intergovernmental conference at the edge of GAERC yesterday. Ministers have addressed and addressed institutional and non-institutional issues and defence policy. They are trying to find the best compromises acceptable to all countries. The Italian Presidency shall endeavour to stay as close as possible to the text of the Convention. The Presidency's compromise proposals also reflect many Slovenian positions. Of course, some proposals will need to be supplemented and corrected. Specific solutions and proposals may be presented by the Foreign Minister, who has just returned from the Intergovernmental Conference in Brussels. It is worth noting that nothing has yet been decided at the intergovernmental conference. It's a rule. Nothing's settled until everything's settled. As I have already said, compromise solutions acceptable to all are still being sought on open issues. The strategy of the Italian Presidency is to resolve issues from less conflict to more conflict. In view of the above, it is expected that everything will be decided definitively in the coming days at the Conference of Heads of Government and Heads of State in Brussels. The Slovenian Government has adopted the position that the government conference would be as effective as possible to try to be as constructive as possible in the negotiations. It will focus on issues related to Slovenian key national interests. The Treaty is intended to reflect the balance between institutions and countries in the European Union. Slovenia has always insisted that the conference finish its work as soon as possible, if possible, by the end of the year, while maintaining the quality of the solutions and the work of the conference. The content framework for Slovenian representatives' performances at the conference is the starting point for government representatives to attend the intergovernmental conference, which the government adopted on 11 September 2003 and endorsed in the Committee on Foreign Policy on 3 October 2003. Slovenian views on key issues at the intergovernmental conference are well known. The Intergovernmental Conference should do its utmost to clarify, improve and finalise the Treaty of Constitution for Europe. Of course, it must maintain a general institutional balance and strengthen the Community method. Of course, it must also adopt such solutions as to ensure the effective functioning of the European Union. Slovenia supports the Union, which consists not only of Member States but also of citizens. It supports the Union, which also focuses on the general interest of the Union as a whole. The draft Constitutional Treaty, as drafted by the Convention, is primarily a minimum in the institutional field to be achieved at an intergovernmental conference. On institutional issues, we believe that the existing minimum threshold for the number of Members in the European Parliament per Member State needs to be maintained, which of course means five Members. We believe that the Court of Justice of the European Communities should also be responsible for the judicial supervision of the legality of the legal acts of the European Council and that the powers of the President of the European Council should be defined more precisely. It cannot lead the work of the Council, it would be necessary to delimit the powers of the President of the European Council from the external minister of the European Union. It is necessary to ensure the equality of the Member States in the Presidency of the Council and the equal access of members to the Presidency of any Council. In the event of a solution with the group presidency, the group chair should be kept as small as possible. The principle of collegiality, equality of the members of the Commission must be maintained in the composition of the European Commission. We advocate that each Member should have a Commissioner with full electoral right. Each Member State must have a full voice, because of course this means the full and equal functioning and functioning of each of the Member States of the European Union. It is necessary to improve the decision-making process in the world by a double qualified majority, the majority of the population and the majority of the countries. It is necessary to establish the role of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Union, the joint role of the Commissioner for Foreign Affairs and the High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy. With regard to the most important non-institutional issues, we consider, in the light of the proposals of the Convention, that a third of countries are sufficient to operate so that cooperation can be enhanced if at least half of the countries are involved. All citizens and countries of the Union are equal, as I have pointed out several times. The new tax legislation should continue to be adopted unanimously. Structural cooperation must be based on the principles of inclusion, transparency and openness. The compromise contained in the Convention on the revision of the Constitutional Treaty should be supported. Slovenia also supports the inclusion of minority rights among the Union's core values and underlines the importance of equality between men and women, and also supports the inclusion of social clauses or the greater importance of social policy, health, sport and tourism in the third part of the Constitutional Treaty. Ladies and gentlemen! At the final meeting of the intergovernmental conference to be held in Brussels in the coming days, we will discuss a compromise proposal from the Italian Presidency. It is likely that the greatest amount of energy will be devoted to four key themes: the composition of the European Commission, the minimum number of seats in the European Parliament, the way of decision-making in the world, the consensus or qualified majority, and the defence policy. Above all, the number of votes of each country, the way and the effectiveness of the decision-making process will be tough, as the current debates in Europe show. We will work to ensure that the final institutional solution is balanced and strengthens the elements that safeguard the common interest. The principle of equality of countries must be respected, the Community method and the effectiveness of the Union should be strengthened. Slovenia wants consensus and confirmation of the Constitutional Treaty, treaties to confirm the enlargement process and the integration of Europe. In all past years, Slovenia has taken great steps against its goal, full membership in the Union. It has reformed and adapted its political, social and economic system for membership. By an exceptional majority, Slovenian citizens at the referendum confirmed the chosen objective. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted and is already implementing a programme for effective entry into the European Union. We have taken a decision to enter the ERM2 at the end of 2004, with the aim of introducing the euro in 2007, a law on cooperation between the government and the national assembly on matters of the European Union is being considered in the National Assembly. All our past, present and future actions are linked to the goal of membership in the European Union. We're right in front of the target. The compromise and adoption of the Constitutional Treaty will confirm our objective and allow us to co-operate in the Union with other members. The government believes that the results of the Convention represent great progress and important achievements, of course, open issues remain that are difficult, but we believe that a compromise solution can be achieved. The Constitution for Europe is an integral part of one of the most important European processes, the process of peaceful European integration. In this respect, it is a responsibility for the future. Responsibilities to maintain our views and interests while at the same time seeking compromise solutions for the benefit of all. Europe's peace, stability and transparency are only possible in the processes of European integration. We believe that the outcome of the intergovernmental conference must be a constitutional treaty that will ensure greater efficiency for the integration process, maintain its momentum and enable it to continue. The possible failure of the Intergovernmental Conference in Brussels in the coming days does not mean the end of work and the harmonisation of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe. Work in this case will have to be continued on an ongoing basis. We believe that by 1 May 2004, European countries will have the strength to find a suitable compromise solution. We believe that this can be achieved. Despite our open questions, we are moderately optimistic. Some open questions are undoubtedly complex, but we are working for a good result in the coming days, and we hope that compromises can be found within the time limit set. For the future of our citizens, for the future of Slovenia and Europe, for the Treaty of Constitution for Europe, for a united Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] I will now give my word to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Dimitri Ruple. [[...]] This will lead to an explanation of the information we have received from the government. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u4	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Prime Minister, honourable Members, honourable Members, colleagues, colleagues! In a few days, as has already been said, the Intergovernmental Conference, as predicted in Nice, was scheduled to end in 2000. By the end of 2000, they had decided to hold this conference, which will now end at the end of this year. The achievements and decisions of this conference will not only be the conclusion of a few months' work by the Heads of State or Government and foreign ministers, but rather the outcome of the in-depth discussions held at different levels and, above all, the 16-month part of the Convention on the Future of Europe. The direction of the discussions and their objective were set out in the Declaration on the future of the Union and Nice in December 2000 and the decision to convene the Convention in Laekn exactly one year later. The purpose of the Convention, which began in February 2002, was first to improve the method of intergovernmental conferences, which in Maastricht, Amsterdam and Nice were unable to resolve some of the fundamental issues of the European future. The Convention has been able to reach agreement on some of the very important issues of the future of the European Union, despite the mixed relations between European countries that have led to differences in the resolution of the Iraqi crisis and despite the various visions, particularly the institutional structure of the European Union. Even before the end of the Convention, there was a possibility that there would be no consensus on certain issues, which would prevent the adoption of a common single text. The Convention has reached a compromise and has thus provided a good basis for the current intergovernmental conference. The Convention was drawn up in such a way that it represented all the current members of the European Union. Then 10 new members, Bulgaria, Romania, Turkey, their governments, government and opposition members of national parliaments. The European Commission, the European Parliament, experts and NGOs participated. Among the constituents and active persons of the convention were Slovenians, one of whom was a member of the national assembly of Lois Peterle, even in the Presidency led by former French President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing. The Convention was extremely broad and democratic. The purpose of such a composition was to create the highest possible level of legitimacy of the outcome of the Convention, which is called the Constitutional Treaty proposal. Only a few technical data show how much effort, energy and intellectual potential has been invested in this joint project. Members and alternate members met 26 times in plenary meetings, representing together 52 days and listening to 1,800 interventions. The Convention established 11 working groups and three discussion circles. At the meetings there were many other meetings of individual components, government representatives, for example, parliamentary representatives, individual political groups. The way the Convention was working was particularly important. Its meetings were public, official documents were available on the websites. The Youth Convention was also organised, and a forum was also set up at European level, which was open to all representatives of civil society. As is known, the Forum on the Future of Europe was also established in Slovenia, meeting ten times at the time of the convention. And he'll meet again tomorrow. In this way, the Convention has introduced more transparency and democratic legitimacy into European policy. Due to the extension of 15 to 25 and probably more members, it was indeed time to answer some fundamental questions about the mission, nature and mechanisms of the Union. For Jean Monet and, above all, for Jacques Delors and some modern German policies, if I mention only Joschk Fischer, the main question was, first, whether the European Union should become a federation or some European version of the United States, or secondly, an international or interstate community in which countries, under the conditions of free trade and related economies, will retain the main word, defend their national interests and fight for power. It is simply a matter of choosing between the so-called community or community on the one hand and intergovernmental decision-making on the other. On the one hand, for a transnational concept, on the other hand, an international connection. The fundamental obstacle to the victory of the community, as a Community principle is said, is more or less untouchable sovereignty and the strong national identity of European countries, including Slovenia. We do not have 25 administrative units in the European Union alone, but we have 25 nations. How difficult the links between nations can be, we know from Yugoslav federal experience and from the defeats of the Unitarian politicians of the past. However, the founders and leaders of the European Union were not only at odds with each other as to the way in which it was linked. More than once, Europe has been proposed as a solution to the alleged contradiction between uniformity and diversity. The Convention has formally avoided such temptations, but has allowed some interpretations and discussions to lead us to undesirable differences. I am primarily referring to the concept of so-called enhanced or structured cooperation. We have spoken, written, heard and read many speeches and suggestions, objections and amendments, and it is not possible to say that they have come across the ear of the Presidency. One attentive ear of the Presidency is sitting there in this House, and I thank once again for his affection for the work of the Convention. Once again, however, it cannot be said that all the proposals have been taken into account with the same attention. The main constitutional treaty was written in the lead of the Convention and was tested in various components of the Convention and in the plenary. Slovenia forwarded its views and proposals to the client groups and, above all, to a group of government representatives from 16 small and medium-sized countries. Poland, Spain, Germany and the United Kingdom joined the group in the final stages. At the end, when it showed relatively bad and when we were all angry with Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, there were some compromises, particularly with regard to the composition of the commission and the management of the world, which meant that the Slovenians had to say that we were not excited about the result, but that we would probably be able to live with it. Knowledge of related views was spreading between small and medium-sized countries. This gave rise to the idea of concerting together. In addition to Estonia, Slovenia was the first of the accession countries to the Copenhagen negotiations to be invited to participate. This, by the Prime Minister of the already mentioned group of the same thinking countries, is said to be the smaller and medium-sized countries, the friends of the community method, as it is said, has somehow formed the fourth coalition in the convention, in addition to one coalition, which was French-German, the second was British-Spanish, and the third was the coalition of the Benelux States. Well, everything has actually surprised the strength and sustainability of this coalition, which no one has expected and which has also allowed representatives of smaller countries to succeed in the final negotiations with some of the key requirements. Dear Members and honourable Members! These so-called same thinking countries have presented a joint initiative as a counterweight to the pressure of large countries. The proponents advocated a community method, saying, for a community method, to maintain institutional balance, to respect the principle of equality of countries, to ensure that institutions function as openly as possible, if I say very generally. We have opposed the establishment of new institutions, we have supported the so-called two-club Foreign Minister of the Union, saying that he has one hat on the Commission and another hat on the world. We supported the vote by qualified majority, except in areas sensitive from a national perspective. And this initiative of ours was so resounding that he even reported on it on the front page of the Financial Times. The convention was a success. Its result enjoys high legitimacy. However, it is not possible to conceal the fact that it has tilted or slightly diverted the Union's action towards intergovernmental adaptation and negotiation on behalf of national interests, but not in the direction of the Community or, if I say so, in the previous word, in the name of common European interest. This second course of action, based on common European interest, will remain the objective. The first way that comes from national interests is clearly a modern reality. In force, the Council gained the Council mainly due to the introduction of the new post of Permanent President; the role of the Commission is somewhat less pronounced. The Constitutional Treaty was regarded as a good basis for negotiations at an intergovernmental conference, which began in Rome on 4 October and is due to end in Brussels at the end of this week. Among the issues at stake were those related to the institutions. The already mentioned question of the composition of the European Commission, when it comes to the issue of the number of Commissioners, varies from 15 to 18 or 25 and, of course, on the issue of equality between them. It is a matter of the minimum number of Members in the European Parliament. The minimum number may be four, as now proposed by the Constitutional Treaty, which may be five, as set out in the Nice Treaty. Then it's about leading the formations of the world. So far, we have a proposal on the table that the formations, the different compositions of the world, 9 of them, will lead a group of three countries for 18 months. And, of course, it is an open question of the competence of the Foreign Minister of the European Union, and I will say something else. Then some questions regarding the text of the preamble are also raised. That famous issue of Christendom's mention in it and in relation to the values of the Union. The President has already mentioned the issue of minorities or gender equality, which Slovenia has supported. The negotiations at the intergovernmental conference did not start again, but were based on the compromise reached by the Convention. Thus, the positions that Slovenian representatives defend at the intergovernmental conference would be based on the views formulated at the time of the convention. From the positions we have with the Prime Minister, the National Assembly is informed and confirmed. The Presidency has drawn up proposals, namely on the Legislative Council, on the Presidency of the Council, on the European Commission, on the Minister for Foreign Affairs and on the revision of the Constitutional Treaty. It has also prepared a review of the country's demands on world decision-making and a table of requirements on non-institutional issues, with real policy issues. Before the Conclamation, this is said before the Foreign Ministers' meeting on 28 and 29 November a few days ago in Naples, the Presidency has prepared extensive material with concrete proposals for most of the open issues, which, I would like to stress in particular, is not binding and should only help to find a final compromise. New proposals in the area of defence were prepared at the Conclamation, where it was surprising that positive movements had taken place so that today we could talk about how this issue was resolved if the Heads of Government or the countries agreed to this solution. I would like to mention here two articles that I think are essential. One is Article 40 and the other is Article 213 in Part Three of the Constitutional Treaty. They're both talking about a common security and defence policy. In time, this has been said since the conclave on 28 November, and the so-called Trilateral Proposal of France, Germany and the United Kingdom, which is also called the Protocol, which defines so-called structured cooperation as open, inclusive and transparent. As announced by German Foreign Minister Fischer, by means of a bridge proposal, as he calls it, such cooperation, i.e. structured cooperation, is acceptable to all, as all countries that want and can participate. Structural cooperation is not supposed to be an alternative to the North Atlantic Alliance, as it continues to be the basis for the collective defence of its members. The debate has repeatedly said that European autonomy is not directed at anyone and that the European Union is not a defence liaison. France, Germany and the United Kingdom are confident that the stronger role of the European Union in security and defence will contribute [[Quote]] "to the vitality of the renewed Atlantic Alliance" as agreed under the so-called project or programme "Berlin Plus". The already mentioned trilateral proposal or protocol proposes a focus on the development of the European Union's capacity in order to be able to lead crisis resolution missions beyond the borders of the European Union. Members of structured cooperation, it is said, of these structures, such as defence structures, should improve their capacities in order to contribute to the urgent operations of the European Union by 2007. However, a group called structured cooperation could not start operations on its own, but it would require the consent of all Member States. The question of whether undesirable divisions and the distinction between two or more categories of members of the European Union may arise on issues relating to the common foreign, security and defence policy. If such divisions were to take place in this area, if I simply say, a Europe of two speeds, of course Slovenia should be present, that is my opinion, or to be included in the first category of countries. Yesterday, in Brussels, we came close to a final compromise solution on the already mentioned structured cooperation. We agreed that all countries should be properly informed about the activities of such a structure, although not its members, which is a particular problem for some countries, let's say they have no intention of participating in this structure, and we have also drawn close to a solution for four neutral and non-listed countries, namely Austria, Finland, Ireland and Sweden. The final text, which we do not yet have in hand at this time, should take into account the specific defence arrangements of these countries. As regards financial issues or the power relationship between the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament, the solution contained in the proposal for a constitutional treaty will appear to be preserved. However, with regard to taxes, Slovenia believes that, although we have not decided by consensus in that group of countries representing the majority, not by qualified majority. One of the main issues that will wait until the end of the week and probably not for long is certainly the question of how to make a decision in the world. As is known from the media, Poland and Spain want to, they are committed to maintaining the system of weighted votes as proposed by Nice, as proposed by the Treaty of Nice. Why, you probably know - because Spain and Poland in Nice were given extraordinary powers, so to speak, the precious power of these voices, which is barely 2 points smaller than, for example, German power or French. Well, the convention has proposed a solution. Remember, those who have read the text of the constitutional proposal, a solution that corresponds mainly to large countries or larger countries. In fact, a number of large countries can block the decisions of others. I received a letter yesterday from the Greek Foreign Minister, who notes that after his calculation, three major states, under the constitutional treaty system, can be blocked by the proposal of a constitutional treaty, which is now on the table, so that three large countries can block the decisions of 22 other countries. In short, some power that is problematic for some. Well, Slovenia, together with many others, I must say, particularly with a group of middle and smaller countries, is committed to deciding with a double majority, namely, with a double majority of 50:50, which means that half of the countries representing half of the population of the European Union are required to make a decision. There is another option 60:60, says 60 percent of the countries and 60 percent of the population, which for us, according to our calculations would also be quite appropriate. However, it is not possible to predict the final issue of this effort, so that the interests of the smaller countries are taken more into account. It appears that it will be necessary at the end, unless otherwise decided, to achieve a solution by delaying it for a later period, with the so-called clause of the announced meeting, but if I say after, I don't know, following the European'rendez-vous clause', French is, at the same time, the English word, that is, after the mandate, or after two mandates, when the current system or system is still in force. In an intergovernmental conference, Slovenia will continue to advocate a balance between institutions, their openness and transparency. It will defend respect for national identity and equality of countries, regardless of population and strength. Nothing is yet decided at the intergovernmental conference. The decisive moments are coming. It was the same thing, to say this in the end for comfort, or as a warning, at previous intergovernmental conferences, where decisions were taken at the very end, at the highest level in the early morning. And they say that the most successful have been the ones who have kept awake for as long as possible. It is worth noting that the negotiations of 25 countries, where three candidates are also involved, are said to be 28 countries. The final agreement will represent, probably there is no doubt about it, a compromise. With all solutions, we are unlikely to be fully satisfied, but I expect that the Constitutional Treaty will provide a good basis for our common life in Europe, make it more effective for the Union and bring it closer to its functioning for the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Foreign Minister. I will now give the floor to my colleague Kacin, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, who discussed this morning's proposal for information. Please, President Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u6	Mr Prime Minister, Madam Ministers, colleague, President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Policy has discussed the intergovernmental conference four times so far. For the first time at the 61st emergency meeting, on 3 October, before the start of the Intergovernmental Conference, on 29 October, when he discussed with the European Affairs Commission, and the third on 27 November at the 65th urgent, closed meeting, just before the conclave, when he adopted the conclusions he cited, both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister. The last time the Committee discussed this issue this morning, when it concluded the debate in the following conclusions: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia took note of the previous activities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the intergovernmental conference, and the National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to work towards the conclusion of the Intergovernmental Conference on the implementation of the adopted and endorsed views and to support the text of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe, which will be the result of the agreement of the Member States of the European Union and accessions. It also adopted a third additional conditionality panel, which reads as follows: The National Assembly authorises the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to support the possible compromise proposal of the European Commission at the final stage of the intergovernmental conference. I would like to point out that the role and importance of Parliament in democratic regulation are increasing or certainly remain. Parliaments have a representative, control and also a steering role. The legislative role of our national assembly is certainly to be maintained in the future, although it will be shared with the government in the work of the Council of the European Union. In the future, therefore, the national assembly will share this role with the European Parliament, which is or is still fighting for its role among the other institutions of the European Union. I must stress in particular that the European Parliament is not a real Parliament. He is therefore not a member of the Interparliamentary Union because he does not have a legislative function. It is only a dream, so only an intergovernmental conference will allow this role of the European Parliament to be strengthened. The European Parliament will have a greater role and importance only after 2009 when the intentions of an intergovernmental conference or convention are realized. Our National Parliament, our National Assembly will also remain a fortress of democracy in the Republic of Slovenia in the future. I understand that the public watching us is often dissatisfied with the performance of individual Members and Members and with the reactions of other Members to them. But the National Assembly is just a real picture or a reflection of the election results. We have a national convention like the electorate wanted and elected him. If people expect and want a different Parliament, they will have the next autumn opportunity to choose a different session of the National Assembly. At the same time, citizens, especially the rapporteurs, should not forget that the National Assembly is dedicated to diversity rather than equality. As long as this diversity continues in its work, we need not fear for our future. However, if we lose the possibility of opposition and warning, opposition in an organised and transparent manner in the National Assembly, then our country, not only the National Assembly, would also be in crisis. If Parliament does not reflect the will of people, the protests will spread and move to other forms of organisation and integration, instead of to the House of Representatives or the House of Representatives, then a street will emerge with demonstrations, protests and street democracy. In the European Parliament, we will have only seven Members and we are fighting to have so many after 2009. Unfortunately, we will only be able to cover the 14 working bodies of the European Parliament, and we will also have to fight in the future after the end of the intergovernmental conference for the right to more parliamentarians from smaller countries, in this case at least in three working bodies, if we want to cover at least approximately the whole activity of the European Parliament. This is also a challenge for all of us, not only for the intergovernmental conference, but for all that will follow. I would like to stress the particular importance of the European Commission, which, by definition, defends or defends the rights of small members. The European Commission is, by definition, a carrier of Community methods. In doing so, I think it is important that, on this occasion, I pay particular attention to the fact that the European Union did not have and does not have a successful common foreign, defence and security policy. We have only one light and a convincing exception, and this exception is the enlargement process of the European Union, which has so far been the broadest consensus. The enlargement of the European Union is a historical process that has not been a couple in Europe so far, and if I allow myself to look back, because I have just returned from a visit by the Prime Minister in Asia, if you have the feeling that Europe is sleeping there, but you come to realize that Europe is working a lot for its future just because it is implementing the enlargement process of the European Union. The draft Treaty in the Constitution for Europe also regulates this area in its Article 15. The competence of the Union in matters of common foreign and security policy shall cover all areas of foreign policy and all matters relating to the security of the Union, including the gradual development of a common defence policy which may lead to common defence. That's what the Foreign Minister said. Member States shall actively and without reservation support the common foreign and security policy of the Union in the spirit of loyalty and mutual solidarity and shall take into account the acts adopted by the Union in this field. They shall refrain from any conduct contrary to the interests of the Union or which could undermine their effectiveness. The role of the future Foreign Policy Committee will be defined in addition to its current tasks, as defined in the decision establishing and in the law on external matters, also by the law on cooperation between the national assembly and the government, which was introduced into the legislative procedure last week, and will continue to increase and strengthen under the conditions of membership in the European Union. This committee, as a working body responsible for foreign policy, will be the working body to address and take a position on European Union matters in the field of external security policy. Given that the draft law does not specifically define the role of the Defence Committee, it would probably be appropriate and necessary to consider its future role in the adoption process. Perhaps it would be advisable for these two working bodies to join together or join together. In particular, it will be necessary to decide on the participation of the Slovenian army in operations abroad outside the Member States of the European Union, which is an extremely foreign policy issue. I do not wish to extend the introduction to the Committee on European Affairs, but close elections to the European Parliament are very important. We must be realistic and miracles from our Members of Europe, and the Members do not show that we are demanding or not expecting. It is unrealistic to ask them to do so, but at the same time it is even more unacceptable to ignore or diminish the role and importance of the National Assembly. It is already possible that any candidate or candidate for a European Member or Member of Parliament in his or her appearances in the coming months will magnify the role of the European Parliament. But there is no need for us to trust them or fall in love with them. The old Slovenian proverb says work is on the ground, and democracy is being cultivated, preserved and developed first at home, in Slovenia, in the National Assembly, which must and will therefore remain a fortress of democracy, as I said in the introductions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We have therefore also heard the president of the Committee on Foreign Policy, who discussed the decisions to be taken this morning by the National Assembly following a closed debate. It will be introduced by parliamentary groups, representatives will present their views. Dr. Miha Brace's colleague will be the first to do this. My friend Dr. Brace has the floor. [[Back-up advertising.]] No, not according to the rules of procedure. The Committee, which considered the report or information and the proposal for conclusions, had the opportunity to present its views and I cannot give the floor to a committee which has not done so under the rules of procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u8	Thank you very much. I regret that my colleague Peterle, who is the chairman of the European Affairs Commission, has somehow not come forward, but I do not make the rules in this house. However, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we have finally reached this point in the National Assembly, and that the introduction to the very point is actually of a kind. We are talking about procedures, numbers, statistics and so on, but I think it would not be too much if we said a little more about substantive issues. Without wanting to teach anyone about the matter, God forbid, it is simply the right thing to express our view of a document as important as the constitutional treaty on which we are speaking today in the context of the parliamentary groups. The fact is that the co-existence of the Member States, all of these 15 countries, as we see them, is very diverse and is based on the European Union's functioning today on a number of vague and overlapping legal bases. There is also a democratic deficit, which has been a lot of talk over the past two years; especially those involved in the convention, we note that, in fact, at each session, there has been a talk on the democratic deficit, how this needs to be reduced, how to find instruments so that people have a greater say in decision-making, on the alienation and remoteness of the Brussels institutions and so on. It is also true that the existing institutional structure is quite complex and that decision-making processes are also perceived by many to be inadequate. And, of course, this constitutional treaty took place within 16 months, so together we have come up with a compromise proposal with which we have been very differently satisfied or dissatisfied. What can be said from the outset is that the Constitutional Treaty is not a simple glue to the existing legal bases of the European Union. It is interesting that the European Union is not a federation, not a confederation, not a state, but a community. And since all that is not leads to legal subjectivity, there is something that constitutional lawyers are talking about today abundantly. In view of how some special community can "sui generis", a legal person, if it does not have all those entities that the ordinary state has. It seems important to me that we have agreed that there is a need in the Constitution, in addition to fundamental rights, and so on, as we have said on the Committee today, that there are particularly strong values in the Constitution. Dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, respect for human rights, tolerance, solidarity. In short, the values that give us hope to enter a community that is different from ours. And into the community from which we can, I hope, learn a lot quickly. The objectives of the European Union, which are enshrined in this Constitution, the consolidation of peace, its values, the well-being of its peoples, are such that we can only agree with them and want them. For us, who continue to stress how small we are, and because we are constantly concerned about what will happen to our culture, language and so on, it seems very important to me that there was no one who would oppose respect for cultural and linguistic diversity. It was perfectly normal for the great and the greatest to think that the small ones had the same rights in this respect as the large ones. The definition of competence is now much clearer in the Constitution than in previous documents. Finally, we can talk about three types of competences, these are the original ones that concern monetary policy, trade policy, customs, for example, shared powers when it comes to the internal market, freedom, security, justice, part of agriculture, and supporting action, complementary powers. The expression can be really awkward where it comes from industry, public health, education and the like. It has changed, as we have heard today, the institutional structure, including the management of foreign policy and security policy. Now, what is the critical view of this constitutional treaty? In fact, we need to ask ourselves first how we would act if we were larger if we were an 80 million-dollar state. How would we view countries that have 400 thousand, 500 thousand, but we look at them differently, but still, if we look at all this diversity of countries. It's just an illustration. For example, the 6 largest countries in the European Union represent 74 per cent of the population. For example, the 3 largest countries account for 35 to 40% of the population. Eight countries with a population of 8 to 16 million have a total of 19%. 11 small countries represent only 7%. Or this comparison. The 5 smallest countries have fewer than 5 million inhabitants and the 6 largest countries have 300 million inhabitants. Now, I don't want to mention this in order to prepare, I don't know, a basis for what kind of respectful behaviour of Slovenians or which representatives I don't know, but it's simply a matter of being aware of the real circumstances. And the circumstances in which even those of us who participated in the convention actually worked all 16 months. If we add cultural differences and democratic deficits to these numerical demographic differences, especially in the candidate or accession countries, then we see that the matter is quite complex and that it has been difficult, we imagine that we have reached some compromise. I think the Constitutional Treaty is a good compromise. Of course, we would like ourselves to be smaller in a better position when it comes to a commission when it comes to a world when it comes to a number of other arrangements, but yet this constitutional treaty creates a solid basis for creating a common identity, without the identity of the Member States being and not being compromised. The sharing of powers, in my view, is well-written enough to give us an idea of what will be the subject of debate in the institutions of the European Union, where the European Union has its original competence and what the role of national states is. I hope that the new institutional structure, which will eventually be created, will ensure greater flexibility, the response of the bodies of the European Union, perhaps even a better action capacity, because the current procedures in the European Union are indeed taking a very long time and many say that they are needlessly burdened by a number of bureaucratic procedures. Then I must mention in particular in this context that we are reducing the number of Union legal acts in the new Constitutional Treaty. Today, there are about 20 different forms of these acts. Sometimes one or the same or similar act by name is processed, adopted by different procedures. Thus, it is sometimes difficult for European Members and others who are familiar with the field to decide which procedure is applicable, which rule is applicable. I think it is important to say that the Constitution defines provisions on economic cooperation and policy management in various areas. I agree, and when we discussed this, we were united in our view that perhaps such a broad policy area is not a real constitutional matter, a constitutional substance, so that it might be sufficient to remain in some of the principles of policy management in the European Union. However, if this has been the case and indeed, it must be acknowledged that these policies have fallen into the text or into the Constitution in the last moments of the Convention's operation, then I allow experts in the framework of an intergovernmental conference, which are also legally perfecting and supplementing the text, to address these errors or shortcomings. I would not go into any particular question about the Commission, because we have already discussed this on the Foreign Policy Committee and within the European Affairs Commission and, of course, we have been united that the starting points drawn up by the Government are suitable for negotiations in Rome. But I would like to say a little bit more clearly one fact that perhaps the government representatives may not want to say out loud. When we talk about the commission, we have heard that the Commission cannot be composed of 28 members or 25 members, if its effectiveness is reduced and so on. It was mainly about efficiency, and it was about the political body committee. So, I think the key reason for reducing the number of Commissioners is very simple. It is the fear of large countries to be voted on by the committee. The six largest countries shall have six votes if each country has one vote. What about the other 19? So, I didn't intentionally list these numerical demographic differences between members. This is actually about the fact that the big ones want to stay big and have more influence than those who are smaller. In fact, the great countries have great influence. As we look at it, of course there are a relatively higher number of Members in the European Parliament, including more opportunities to meet important positions. In the European Council, they have a weighted number of votes relative to the rest of them - you're bigger, you're stronger. They have supremacy on the committee so far, because they have two commissioners each. On the basis of the key size, they also have a greater impact on the distribution of important positions in administrative systems. We, by the way, may be over-emphasizing the Commissioners, but I don't know, Members, but so on. You know, I'm not going to say it's real power, but there's a lot of power concentrated in the administrative systems of the European Union. And maybe the government and we all think too little about this aspect. Look, Ireland, even before it entered the European Union, it set up an institute in Brussels for, I don't know, an Irish study or what it's already called, which dealt mainly with this question of how to fill positions in the institutions of the European Union, because that is how information, influence and so on is obtained. In short, if we add to all these differences or to the emphasis on size the fact that a large majority of multinationals from large countries are emerging, that more developed countries have a major economic impact in less developed countries, of course, the fact that it is already a matter of great countries. That's why the tendency of us who are smaller is logical. With this stubborn insistence on some institutional and other things, we would like to point out that, taking into account all these differences between us, we expect the great to listen to the smaller ones and that these differences will at least be mitigated. And of course, if we ask ourselves what it is like to say the specific weight of Slovenia all together. Now, representatives, as I have already said, of smaller countries, were exceptions, if I recall correctly, to the state of Benelux, we were skeptical of the constitutional treaty. We see, of course, a series of advantages, but we are also afraid of the domination of large countries, and it now shows that the Constitutional Treaty will be somehow more beneficial to the greater than the smaller ones. We can also agree with the arguments cited by the big ones when it comes to rotation or when it comes to Commissioners with the right to vote and without the right to vote. If there is an equal rotation, then it means that there will also be a representative of a smaller Member State, I do not know, and a representative of a large country will be without a vote. I don't know. We'll see how it goes. But imagine the situation when a small country, for example, would establish a constitutional treaty, thereby putting itself on the brink or getting itself out of the European Union. Small countries thus have no choice. But do you imagine a great country would do that? In order for France to say no, and we're not going to do that, we're going to get off this train. Of course you can't. That's why I'm saying things aren't as simple as they might look sometimes when you read newspapers every day. Perhaps we should, though, but perhaps we should further stress the importance of the community method and minimize the intergovernmental method. Well, the truth must be said that we have done this and have insisted on our Commissioner and on strengthening the European Commission and the like. But the result is what it is. Eurosceptics continue to warn that small countries will slowly lose themselves in the crowd and lose their autonomy in some way to lose their national identity. By joining the European Union, each country, small or large, carries out its work of sovereignty to the common institutions, but does not thereby lose its sovereignty. However, if a small country remains outside the European Union, it faces much more serious problems that globalisation poses. The European Union is a huge market, it is a large administrative and political system, it is a collection of many cultural entities, and if we take the stand in advance that a small country cannot compete with large ones anyway, we have given up our own development, games with others and a better life. It is therefore essential to recognise that the European Union is an opportunity that we must take advantage of to achieve our common, individual and individual objectives. There is absolutely no reason for self-underestimation or, as Niko Grafenauer says [[Quote]] "Is the East really just a waste of thought and creation, is there really no experience and ideas that could and should be incorporated into integration?" [[End quote]] .Therefore, it is not a key question that we hear so many times in Slovenia, what we will get from the European Union, but it is an essential question which of our achievements will have an appropriate response in Europe. And I think that Slovenia has a good chance of being implemented in the new European environment. We do not have strategic raw materials or important natural resources, but we do have a wealth of human resources that have not yet been properly developed and used. And here, I think, is also the priority of the education system, which should, however, hurry with the coordination and development of itself in the direction of similar systems in the European Union. I fear that, for example, the Slovenian school system is still entangled in some skeletoned old models of opinion, is not open to exceptionality, is favored with false social and averageness, the choice of students, for example, is based on points and not on the individual's personal abilities, qualities and affinities; where he will eventually study is decided by the computer. So, what do I mean? Freedom of opinion and vision are, of course, important. Freedom of opinion, originality, all of this is subject to the factography, the repetition of learned patterns. And, of course, the professional profiles we are developing today will not be well enough in Europe. Fortunately, however, more and more talented people choose to study abroad, to study interdisciplinary studies, to study at home and abroad, and this is a good prospect for the future. I am afraid that we also do not have an adequate long-term systematic human resources policy, especially for the European Union. As I said before today, not everything is in political positions. It's very important to have your people in administrative systems. Did we do it? I'm afraid we're not. And that means that in one important segment of our successful integration into the European Union, we have somehow lagged behind at the pace and that we should now make great efforts to at least somehow mitigate the delay. In this context, Slovenia must strengthen its mission in Brussels, as a few ten professional colleagues will not be able to do such a wide and diverse work satisfactorily. Finally, it would be time for the National Assembly only to hire its expert in the European Parliament, as has been the case with most Member States and candidates. I also hope that after the elections to the European Parliament an agreement will be reached between elected Members on where someone will participate, because Slovenia cannot cover all the working bodies, but as has already been mentioned today, within the next term it can cover only 14 working bodies. And it would not be good if, as it is today, when we have two in the Foreign Policy Committee, two in the Employment, Employment and Social Affairs Committee, a whole lot of other committees are somehow unavailable, if I may say so. Well, it's true that the observers didn't have any effort to split up, just as we wanted, but it would be good to remember when the time came. We talk a lot about how it will be necessary to prepare well for abroad, while stressing the knowledge of foreign languages. It is quite clear that the knowledge of foreign languages is important and it is right to insist on the equality of languages and language skills and so on. However, when rightly highlighting the knowledge of foreign languages, we must not ignore even more important requirements, I say again, more important requirements - this is to ensure consistent respect for the official and business uses of the Slovenian language in Slovenia and also in the European institutions. Here, unfortunately, Slovenia does not show a nice picture. Slovenian space is full of words that are not Slovenian, and children, students use them as they come to mind without feeling that they have said something wrong. Of course, that's not good. And if I conclude, I think that the new constitutional treaty - now as it will be - is difficult to say - to compromise between a number of different views among different actors. Those of us who have participated in this and those who are still participating in the Intergovernmental Conference today, I believe they are trying to find what is common, what connects us, not what works in the opposite direction. The Convention has proved that, despite our diversity, we are able to find a common path. We would be happy if an intergovernmental conference could do that. I think that the Constitutional Treaty guarantees each member a decent position in the European Union, to say the least. In all this, we must be aware, however, that even after this constitutional treaty, whatever it is at the end, the great remaining great but smaller members will still be able to achieve and protect our interests. And after all, it's not all about the paper, it's not all about the document. More importantly, what kind of people will implement the provisions of the Constitutional Treaty in the European institutions and in the Member States. In short, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the government's position in this final work, entry into the European Union requires some new reflection, and if this thought is backed up by some quality document in which we will see our future, then, of course, we will accept it so much easier in the next process or we will confirm it. Of course, we rightly expect the government to take account of all its further steps, even when it comes to personal and other issues, of the notorious fact that the entry into the European Union was and is a joint government and opposition project, that the Convention and its outcome, as far as Slovenia is concerned, are once again a joint project of all those who have participated in it, which means once again, of course, the ruling coalitions and the opposition. We therefore hope that the feeling will also affect later government decisions when it comes to personal and other issues. We express the hope that the intergovernmental conference will conclude its work this month and that smaller countries, i.e. Slovenia, will also be able to find sufficient elements in this new constitutional document to realize their development visions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u9	Thank you very much. When I invite my colleague Peterlet to speak, let me just inform the national assembly that he will appoint a representative in the European Parliament early next year. Such a designation had already been made, and for objective, personal reasons, the candidate decided to stay at home and so we were forced to find a new one, which, as it is said, will travel to Brussels at the beginning of next year. Comrade Peterle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President of the Government, Mr Foreign Minister, other members and co-workers of the Government, dear Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you to those who have also mentioned my participation in the Convention in this regard, thank you for your kind words. I am pleased that we have participated in this and have left behind some convincing clear trail, and I want us to participate in this spirit in the finale of this one-time project. Mr President, I must only raise more than a question about the fact that the parent working body, which is called the European Affairs Commission, has also served with its professional colleagues on this process, which has twice proposed a plenary debate and it has been almost necessary to force Members and Members to speak fully before the last words in Brussels are spoken; therefore, that the parental status of this working body is disregarded and that I must even negotiate if I can speak as President of this working body, who has also proposed this meeting, but four negotiating rounds in the college are needed to allow us to see and hear each other at all. I'm against it. I think it's a little too small a game with such a big project as we say we're doing together. And our Rules of Procedure say that the rapporteurs will be contacted. We know that we have two parent bodies and that this is not just a contractual aspect, and the Commission has repeatedly considered this matter. However, it also regularly dealt with reports on the work of the Convention, so I think you have made a tiny mistake on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u11	Comrade Peterle, can we clear this up right now, or should I let you finish? As you wish, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u12	I'd like to ask if [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u13	Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u14	See, at the end of February 2002, a second convention began in the history of the European Union. The first was intended for the Charter of Fundamental Human Rights and was successfully concluded. Since then, we have been talking about the Convention as a successful method of regulating matters in the European Union. The purpose of this Convention was to prepare the basis for the decision of the Intergovernmental Conference on the Future Constitutional Treaty. And earlier, as one of the speakers has already said, we had two relatively unsuccessful conferences, in Amsterdam and Nice, although for Nicole to have opened the way for the enlargement of the European Union, and it was poor in deepening its functioning. And when the first concession was made in Nice that night, it was necessary for all of this to be confirmed, to accept other concessions, which led to the result that, as soon as it was accepted, a number of people at the same table were no longer in agreement. The initiative was therefore soon to resolve the problem through a thorough convention in which two-thirds or two components were parliamentary in nature, representatives of national parliaments and representatives of the European Parliament, which also gave an extremely strong democratic legitimacy to this important 'grammy'. And they also contributed in the final because they were able within them to agree, to broad consensus and to confirm a single or one text of the draft Constitutional Treaty. The work of the Convention was accompanied by the following criteria: democracy, transparency, efficiency, proximity to people. I must also stress the fact that not only have Member States and accession countries, to which Slovenia also belongs, cooperated equally here, but also those of Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey. For the first time, we participated in the debate on the future of Europe, not only fighting for our national interests, but we have tried throughout Europe, to contribute our part or our vision to the story of Europe's future. I would say again, I think we did it successfully, or so say others who evaluate our work. I myself belong to those who are convinced that the Constitutional Treaty or the outcome of the work of the Convention is more than they or we expected at the beginning. Many said, you won't be able to get to one text, to one contract, to put in armor of course [[EURATOM]] the EUROTOM contract. We have achieved a clearer language, a more transparent definition, the competences of the common institutions, a greater respect for the principle of complementarity, which speaks of each level of work, and should the higher not go to the lower and vice versa, if there is no need for myself, I am glad that this criterion has received a stronger role or principle. We have helped to reduce the democratic deficit by increasing the role of the European Parliament, which will later, if adopted, play a much greater role in the legislative process, i.e. almost in full codecision, and the role of national parliaments has also been increased. It is very important that the European Parliament not only confirms the President of the European Commission, but actually elects him in the spirit of parliamentary European elections. It is very important that we have the Charter of Fundamental Human Rights included as an integral part of the Treaty. It is important that we have managed to agree on more cooperation in the security and defence field, more decision-making by a qualified majority, which means more political Europe, and a major change is taking place in the area of security and foreign policy. Of course, I must also say a word about the Minister of Foreign Affairs, no matter what his final designation will be, but it all shows that this figure will remain in the institutional picture and will have two legitimacys, two hats, one intergovernmental, one in-communal. And I am pleased, of course, that even though there will be no special legislative council, it will be clearly stated that the world, when dealing with legislative matters, must act in full transparency, it is said, publicly. Indeed, as the Minister has said, there has been a competition, a fight, a tension between the Community method, which is made special by the European Commission and an intergovernmental method, which is being specialised by the European Council. I am pleased that in the end we have reached a balanced institutional picture covering the post of the Permanent President of the European Council, but not yet with the new powers of the President. So, after that, we won't have a six-month presidency. The stronger role of the European Parliament is therefore important, and I have already talked about this and the stronger role of the President of the European Commission, who will have more rights, and of course it is important that the European Commission retains the exclusive right of initiative. I'll talk to you about college 15, 18, 25 or more later. It is very important that the Convention has concluded its work with broad consensus, without polarisation: old, new, big, small, poorer, richer. It is also important, as has already been said, that in Thessaloniki the European Council approved the draft Constitutional Treaty as a good basis for starting a part of an intergovernmental conference. I continue to argue, including a good basis for its conclusion. The work of the members of the Slovenian Convention was carried out in conjunction with and with the support of a specific mixed working group, in which the experts were members of the National Assembly, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Government Service for European Affairs and in a variety of embassies in Brussels. I owe a great deal of gratitude to these people who helped us to be equipped in time with information that helped us with positions that truly served the work of the conventioners. Without them, our success would undoubtedly be smaller. I must also mention the work of the forum on the future of the European Union, because thanks to this forum there has been more information from the Slovenian public. More than 50 representatives of non-governmental organisations worked in this forum, and many talked about this forum as an example and a good relationship between elected representatives of the people or government and civil society. And I am pleased that tomorrow this forum is meeting again, because it has not actually done the work to the end, it has not addressed the draft treaty and not the new situation. As I have already said, the European Affairs Commission regularly discussed the situation at the Convention at its meetings and it is 26.5. Please note this date slightly, 26.5., for the first time six months ago, it proposed that we deal with things in the plenary. Apparently, he can't be an instigator on this side, but he can only be from someone else, so this thing ended up somewhere else and there wasn't this prey. We could have discussed the work of an intergovernmental conference already in June or July, but we did, I think, the only Parliament that did not accept it at the time of the intergovernmental conference, held no discussions and adopted views on this. Thank God we are doing this at least two days earlier, after the 21.11 Commission proposed that such a plenary debate take place. I think this is such an important matter that Members and Members must be informed first-hand and have the opportunity to say, to ask, to position themselves because it is matters which are essential to our future in the European Union. It is also a relationship between the Government and the State Assembly, which mandates the Government, the Committee on Foreign Policy when it comes to its work outside or in relation to the Treaty. And let me mention the situation in which we are now, a few more facts that I think are important for the context of our thinking and our conduct, especially the government in the final, even the national assembly. Look, when we decided on historical decisions and began to direct our view towards the European Union, the situation was very different. At that time, we knew the European Union of Great Unity, Economic Growth, and we saw it as an example of the relations between the economy and social, with sensitivity to minorities, to smaller ones and so on. I'm talking about 1990, 1991, 1992. When we started negotiating for entry into the European Union, the picture was already slightly different. When we stopped negotiating, she was even more different. Now that we are ahead of the historic decision to decide for the first time in the history of the European Union for the text of a constitutional nature, the situation is quite different. Whoever watches domestic and foreign newspapers will see that somehow skepticism on one side or the other is growing. We hear many words or questions, whether it will really work, or whether these ten new ones will be able to share resilient values, principles, and spirit with those who have begun before us. Previously, we did not know the public financial disturbances or problems of some Member States; today this problem has covered the so-called engine of the European Union, France and Germany. You know the story of Pactmstability, growth and so on. And there was no such problem with the social treasury, there was no division that took place on the subject of the Iraqi crisis. There were also no questions regarding the military security identity of the European Union. So today we have other challenges, other facts, different atmosphere and in this situation it is all the more important how Slovenia will play with its specific weight or quality; not only does it depend on statistical facts, but rather on the quality of a position. And I think it is now a very clear time when we need to cut our memory back to the beginning of the European Community's creation, and to remember what connected those six countries that started this project at that time. For if we catch that feeling, then this intergovernmental conference will also come to a successful end, but if not, blockades are possible; I hope that they will not come to them. More recently, however, there has been talk of how, by what majority, votes to block a decision rather than how to open up a path to a decision that will not stop too often. And I think we're in the wrong direction right now, at least that's how I understand the main course of this debate. I would like to say one more thing, ladies and gentlemen, why Nova Slovenija and I are trying personally to make the relationship between Parliament and the government credible in this regard, clear and, above all, legal with regard to the rules that we have adopted ourselves. This house will have to ratify this contract when it comes approved by an intergovernmental conference. And it is better to open our questions now than to open them to each other after, because we will only open them, but we will no longer influence them, then the situation will be binary, one-zero: whether we will stand or not. And we have a few more days, just a few days to ask our representatives at an intergovernmental conference, to mandate them, to demand precise views on clear issues. Not only does New Slovenia want, wants and requires that the positions of the government, all of its positions are clear to Members and Members before the final decision is reached, and, of course, it expects and requires that everything we say will be the position of the Slovenian Government on the way to final compromises that this is confirmed by the Foreign Policy Committee which is responsible for this. Today is no longer the time for framework positions, we have adopted framework positions at the beginning. I note, despite today's information, which is more information than the government's views, that we do not have precise positions on some matters; we have a request from the government that we should be precise, but we do not have a position to be precise. With what will the Prime Minister go to President Berlusconi - will he go to Rome or will he go to Brussels? I think this house needs to know about all the positions that the government has stated in its framework positions that they need to be clarified. The President of the European Council, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I want to hear precisely, because this is also the path I have not heard, according to the official position of the Government - I suppose somewhere adopted - that the President of the European Council should be working to prevent rivalry, confusion, fog in relation to the President of the European Commission, and not to rivalry and hazy affairs in relation to the Minister for Foreign Affairs with two hats. I am missing this precision, so I say: I do not know how our highest will go to the highest instance in the final negotiations. I think it is necessary to be consistent here and to demand this clarity. Allow me to comment now on some specific issues which I think are still open and which have been defined too frameworkally. In particular, I am saying this because the final proposal that the Minister has been talking about may be able to bring solutions that may differ from what we have represented with the government so far. First of all, the European Commission. Earlier, I think the Prime Minister, Mr Rop, also said that the outcome of the convention should be kept or not to go to - I think he used the words - common nominees that have been achieved. The Convention reached a common denominator with regard to the European Commission, that countries are equal, but that we have two types of Commissioners, so-called Europeans with full voting rights - 15 - who are circulating and 13 - the President and the Foreign Minister - who are circulating equally. So it's always your turn. And it was difficult when we reached equality in the last hour, and, of course, for me it was the main criterion. There were now speeches on the 18th, the Italian proposal, the electoral commissioners, with a voting right, so that each Member State could have two consecutive mandates for a given number of Member States, but not for the third time. Then, of course, it is a matter in the perspective that must be seen in the spirit of our insistence and the insistence of the Commission, which is also supported by the European Commission, that every equal member of the Commission should have. I remember many debates on efficiency. And let's say what the government will say if the Presidency takes over the position, but once we have, say, 30 or 33 members of the European Commission, that the number should be reduced, not some Senate of 33 Commissioners. Those in the government know how difficult it is to work with a large number of people present. Here I think it would be good to talk about the final position or the flexible position. As far as the votes of the Council are concerned, I have already asked the Foreign Policy Committee what the government prefers. But she doesn't care about 50-50. I understand he's not warming up to Nico with a weighted vote, or he thinks our guy's country is more of a 50% ratio and 50% of the population behind him, or 60:60. This is related again to which number can block another line. On this point, I would like a clear word and a confirmed word from the PSC. I am, of course, pleased that the intergovernmental conference is moving, so at least our participants report from it that it is moving in the direction of our desire to raise the threshold of the minimum number of Members in the European Parliament for smaller countries from 4 to 5 or 6. Then I'm glad there won't be a legislative world. That there's a consensus here. I am very pleased with what I have been trying to do in the Presidency, but I have not been able to see the legality of the European Council's acts there, and I think it is very important. And I don't think there was a talk today about reviewing the treaty. I have a question whether it really makes sense for each element of this Treaty, which has a distinctly technical or narrower political issue, which is not of an express constitutional nature in terms of jurisdiction, whether it is necessary for each such thing to need ratification by all countries, or whether Slovenia would allow it, as I think most countries want, but some model to allow for a certain type with the possibility of a red light, as they say, to allow it to go easier. The next thing I have to say is that we do not agree in New Slovenia is the issue of structured cooperation. What government representatives have said is of course very important. Open, inclusive, transparent. I'm sure we agree here. However, I would like to say that the Convention, and especially in the Presidency, had a very large debate on whether the number 8 of those involved in such a project should have been sufficient, or one third. Now we're in the middle of something called 50 percent. I think that if we go in the direction of 50 that it can really prepare some of the current Member States to decide what has somehow occurred in the air - that if they feel that they have too much brake on their way to faster growth or the development of some areas, they will use the way through the constitutional contract itself. I think it would be very bad, as if we had different clubs going in different directions. On behalf of New Slovenia, I advise the government to consider whether it will insist on 50, in half, because it is almost difficult to get half for in-depth or structured cooperation; one-third, I think it is more realistic and will go less on the nerves and will not smell after the blockade, but after openness. I am alone for one third, provided that it remains open, for all Member States, that it is therefore inclusive and transparent. Blockage would be the wrong signal. Mr Rupel, who spoke of the "rendez-vous" clause, was also mentioned. I would like to inform you that some of us attended the last meeting of the members of the national parliaments and of the European Parliament last week in Brussels, a meeting on an intergovernmental conference where this clause was clearly said to have been poorly adopted or rejected, because, in particular, those with constitutional knowledge, as lawyers, have pointed out that it is not appropriate for a constitutional treaty to insist that it will someday decide on something. They believe that it makes more sense to introduce automaticism and to say that from that year forward we will act this way, but not that it is simply considered that it is not appropriate for such a clause to be placed in a constitutional treaty and to be rejected in a declaration. Well, I'd end up like this. The discussion was about a compromise proposal. I don't know if he'll come into the light like he did before Naples when we were able to get a direct position or a proposal from the President-in-Office, or if this is going to go any other way. Regardless of where this is going, New Slovenia requires that, should the compromise proposal go beyond what the content of the mandate of the Government by the State Assembly through the Foreign Policy Committee, the Foreign Policy Committee is aware of it in this case and has the opportunity to take a position on this and thus to cover the Government's back when it goes to the finals. I think this is a reasonable or necessary proposal, especially given that we have some positions that are not specified. And in Novi Slovenijes we don't want to see anything that we haven't warned ourselves about, or anything that we haven't mandated, or that we've forgotten anything. This is such a big game that we have to play it consistently from the first to the last round. In this context, I want the government to effectively, effectively represent Slovenia and to connect with those forces that will ensure that the joint nominators reached with broad consensus at the convention are not affected or that the intergovernmental conference does not go below that. In this respect, we are looking forward to improvements, not paraphrases, in the essential elements of a balanced institutional structure. And we are putting something in New Slovenia's heart to our representatives to keep our eyes on the equality of the Member States, which is a key word in this regard, and not to contribute to the non-productive polarisations we are still experiencing at this time in connection with the intergovernmental conference. Thank you very much for your attention and great success.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Comrade Peterle. Before I give my word to my colleague Barovic, because you had two procedural questions or concerns, very briefly an explanation. First of all, with regard to eligibility to act as President of the European Affairs Commission: no one is hidden and therefore there is no need. Personally, I have made every effort to the extent possible that it has always been clear that the European Union's project has gone through the European Affairs Commission that you led, as well as through the Foreign Policy Committee led by my colleague Kacin. However, in accordance with Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure today, it was not possible to give the floor as a rapporteur for the Committee which dealt with the material on the agenda today. It's a formality. The second question is the convening of this meeting. We talked more and more about when this session was supposed to be. You really suggested in May that the National Assembly should attend the meeting, consider this issue, I have before me the decision of the Foreign Policy Committee, which then decided to postpone this decision. Then the material for the new session was not proposed, but I asked you in a letter in November to assess whether it would not be good, however, for the State Assembly to discuss it before the end of the intergovernmental conference, and then you also concluded it on the basis of my letter. However, it was necessary, of course, to draw up a point so that the material was also prepared and the only possible way was to inform the government this moment, although as you yourself mentioned, colleague Peterle, you also once again prepared a proposal for conclusions and opinions. So that's how this reference came to be. And if it's necessary, then we'll clear it up. Now I'm going to end up with a bunch of parliamentary groups. My friend Barovic, please. After you, Comrade Stemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members. Respected representatives and representatives and co-workers and government co-workers. I am pleased that today, in this House, the power to talk about, although very late, the last and one of the most important, I will call it political action. And in this regard, it seems to me that no one has mentioned one very important information. This is that there will be a constitutional treaty, I am almost certain that compromise will have to come after 1 May 2004. This is a very important information, because at the time of Greece's presidency Italy has already announced that it will hold an intergovernmental conference, develop a constitutional treaty with the other countries and that the existing 15 members will sign this constitutional treaty before 10 new members - including Slovenia - would, of course, enter the European Union. Another very important point is that today - at least we - have shown symbolically what we have pointed out on the Committee on European Affairs many times that Parliament is the only and true link between the people in the country of Slovenia and between the European institutions. Today, I think this fundamental element with this conversation, and with these views reviewed, is a day. I must say that I am pleased that we have received precisely the written views of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the compromise package at the intergovernmental conference, especially because it says: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall provide its list of essential issues which will have to be reflected in an acceptable compromise package for it." A very important sentence is this and, of course, on behalf of Slovenk and the Slovenes, I am very pleased to support it. Mr Prime Minister and Foreign Minister have informed us of a number of open issues that have remained in the last moments of the intergovernmental conference. And I would also like to hear the answers to our government's views on the following questions. What is our government's position on the issue of budget decision-making? Does the government assess that the budget is to be decided in the European Parliament or is it to be decided by the finance ministers? I am sure that this is a very difficult and still open question. The next thing I want to hear from the government is the position of Slovenia. What position does Slovenia take towards the Stability Pact between France and Germany in the financial field? For, as we are aware, this issue has led to quite a heated debate and has cooled some relations within the existing members of the European Union. What is our government's position on the referendum issue? Because at a meeting of representatives or presidents of the European Affairs Commissions, a tendency arose, whether not all members - 15 existing and 10 new - at the same time, a referendum was held, at the same time, to decide whether the existing constitution would be acceptable or not when a constitutional treaty was established. Foreign Minister Frattini offered this question. In addition, more and more countries with which I spoke a month or two ago, after the said "no, we will not have a referendum" for the referendum, have only decided and said, it is right for citizens to decide collectively to respect such a constitution as they will be offered in the great country, the European Union. I am also interested in the government's position on, I must say, lately also, as far as I have been monitoring and being present, the pressing issue of the role of Commissioners. There's more theory. Not only would each country have one Commissioner, or number 18 as we have heard, but 15 Commissioners and rotations. The hidden request of some large countries appeared again after two votes. There will also be a lot of speeches in the last days of the intergovernmental conference, and I would also like to hear the position to be represented. However, especially when I have read carefully the views of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, those clearly defined here, I must say that, on my behalf and on behalf of my colleagues, I can say that they are stable for Slovenia and Slovenia. We demand equality, demand equality with everyone else, require collegiality and also a qualified majority say much. The government will have a hard time working at an intergovernmental conference, and I am sure, at least so we have been on the European Affairs Commission so that we can meet earlier, and perhaps as parliamentarians, we can help with the difficult decisions that will still lie ahead of the government. Therefore, on behalf of Parliament and Slovenia and the Slovenians, I can only wish her much success and a firm stance in meeting her views. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u17	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. Mr Štemberger will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party. I have one more on behalf of the delegation behind him, and then we will go, if I understand correctly, to the debate of Members and Members. Please come in, Comrade Stemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Honorable National Assembly! If anywhere, then, when Slovenia is included in the European Union, there is a majority support for political parties when Slovenia is involved in this integration. This direction has also been strongly supported by Slovenian citizens, so it is our duty to follow these guidelines. In the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, we view the participation of Slovenian representatives in the Convention on the Future of Europe as a success and we also commend them here. Among them, we would particularly point out Mr Peterlet, who has been very perceptive of the members of the acceding countries and has proved that the smallness of the country is not an obstacle to our representatives in the future European Parliament being able to deliver on tangible and important things. The positions supported by the Slovenian Government in the preparation of the Treaty of Constitution for Europe are supported in the Party of Youth Slovenia. But it is true that not all of them have been accepted, because the proposal that is prepared is a compromise between the big and the small and there are never any winners in compromises. We also consider as very important the guidelines, which very strongly ensure the formation of a common and effective defence policy of the European Union, which will be an important counterweight to US pressure under NATO. We have also warned about this in the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party in the referendum on the entry into NATO, and now our warnings receive their real content in the highest act adopted by the enlarged Europe. It is very important, however, that Slovenia firmly follows these efforts. Slovenia is getting closer and closer to entering the European Union, we will enter in May 2004 and the fact is that we will have to act in the European Union as a country with an orderly and comprehensible foreign policy position, inter-departmental coordination between leading ministries will have to work, the government's views will have to be aligned with the views of the National Assembly. We expect that officials working on the basis of informal functioning and coordinated cooperation and the functioning of Slovenia within the framework of the European Union, under the leadership of Minister Potočnik, at least as successful as the accession negotiations have taken place, at the service of the Government for European Affairs. In the Youth Slovenia Party, we will support today's conclusions, but we hope that the European Commission's proposal, which enables every Member State of the European Union to cooperate on an equal footing by recognising the Commissioner with voting rights, will also receive the necessary support at an intergovernmental conference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u19	Please, Comrade Mag. Kramberger will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister, Foreign Minister, welcome. We have welcomed the work of the Convention in our parliamentary group since its inception, because we believe that the preparation and adoption of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe is a reflection of the positive approach of the Member States to the enlargement of new ones. In the light of the greatest enlargement of the European Union so far, it has proved necessary to reform both institutional and some non-institutional matters and areas. There is a need for a new division of powers between the European Union and the Member States, a common foreign policy regime, an increase in democratic legitimacy and a definition of the status of the Charter of Fundamental Rights. At the conclusion of the intergovernmental conference, we expect European citizens, today and tomorrow, to adopt a constitutional treaty. This document will enable the development and operation of a new enlarged Europe. The Treaty is expected to be adopted unanimously and definitively before the European Parliament elections next June. In our Group of Members, we appreciate the extensive and difficult work of the Convention on the Future of Europe and believe that it has achieved a positive result. We further believe that in Slovenia, which is one of the smaller acceding countries, equal membership within the European Union is particularly important. With regard to the number of Members of the European Parliament, we support the arrangements set out in the Nice Treaty. In accordance with this Regulation, it is stated or envisaged that each Member State should have at least five Members. We are therefore committed to maintaining the minimum threshold for the number of Members per Member State. The principle of democracy is one of the fundamental principles of both the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union. The participation of citizens and citizens in decision-making on matters that are concerned either directly or through their loved representatives is one of the main elements of democracy. In doing so, it is worth mentioning the often mentioned democratic deficit. The fact is that the main decision makers within the European Union will be the governments of the Member States, i.e. the executive, unwelcome branch of government, in order to achieve a greater level of participation of the people, both the active role of the European and national parliaments, as only in this way can we expect a reduction of the democratic deficit. We must therefore have in mind the role of national parliaments in the enlargement process of the European Union. Regular exchange of information between the institutions of the European Union and the national parliaments of individual countries is important. Regular communication would allow current discussions within national parliaments to be updated to the institutions of the European Union. We further believe that the existing powers of the European Parliament regarding the validation of the budget of the European Union should not be changed or reduced. The way of world decision-making is one of the institutional issues that has not yet been able to reach a final consensus and will be discussed at the intergovernmental conference. In our Group of Members, we agree with the views expressed by the Government regarding the adoption of a symmetrical definition of a double majority. We believe that a balanced regime of the dual nature of the European Union must be taken into account in the Constitutional Treaty, i.e. equal consideration of citizens and countries. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the introduction of the European Foreign Minister's Institute, which will formally be a member of the European Commission and of the Council of the European Union. The ministerial function brings together the current role of the Commissioner for Foreign Affairs and the High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy. Furthermore, its role is to represent the European Union in the international community. In the Group of Members, we believe that the Institute of the European Foreign Minister is also important because of the greater visibility of the European Union in its relations with other international actors. The next institutional area to be definitively decided at the closing session is the composition of the European Commission and the role of Commissioners. In the Group of Members, we believe that, in accordance with the principle of equal membership, the equality of the members of the Commission must also be maintained. The Commission should therefore be composed of one Commissioner from each Member State, all of whom should have a comprehensive voting right. In the parliamentary group, we welcome the progress made in the area of defence policy. We agree with the importance of structural cooperation, which should be transparent. We believe that the government has taken an appropriate position on the Italian Presidency's proposal to take account of the link with NATO. An increase in costs resulting from possible duplication of defence structures would be particularly a burden for smaller countries. We particularly support the inclusion of social policy and health in the parliamentary group. In the light of the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend our Constitution in Article 44, which reflected a single political will in the Slovenian space, we support efforts to try to ensure equality between women and men also at European level. We further believe that attention needs to be paid to another non-institutional issue. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that it would be appropriate to mention the presence of Christian values at the very beginning of the Constitutional Treaty, i.e. in the preamble. We believe that Christian values are part of a cultural heritage and, as such, have been accompanied to some extent by European nations through history. We welcome the inclusion of the status of churches and non-confessional organisations in Article 51 of the Treaty, which provides for the recognition of their identity by the European Union. The new Constitution of the European Union has been bringing constitutional treaties together in one document over the last 50 years. The last effort will have to be made before its final adoption. The most pressing institutional issues will have to be addressed at the closing session. We support the efforts of the Slovenian representatives of the Convention in our parliamentary group. To the delegation representing the Slovenian positions at the joint meeting in Brussels, we would like to see their compliance in the new Constitutional Treaty through constructive dialogue. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u21	Thank you very much. At least according to my list, the presentation of the views of the delegations will now be decided by my colleague Juri. He will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats and then we will go to the debate of Members and Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister, Honourable Minister, Fellow Workers and Fellow Workers, Dear Fellows and Fellow Members! We are also happy that this meeting has taken place in the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats. We considered it appropriate, necessary and responsible that the Government, which we have entrusted to it also through the positions and recommendations of our national working bodies, in particular the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Commission on European Affairs, be aware of the course of negotiations, the work results of the Intergovernmental Conference on the first European Constitutional Treaty, even though in the final stage, when the space for manoeuvre is more or less closed or very narrow, regardless of the fact that nothing is agreed until everything is agreed. It is right that before the summit of the European Union and the candidates, or before the meeting of the Presidents of the countries and governments, we review the work done, the proceeds made, and in particular define our attitude towards the historical event ahead of us, or until the adoption of the first European Constitution, and this new, enlarged European Union. It is not only a symbolic moment, but also a two-day period ahead of the summit by attaching or complementing the views of the government that Prime Minister Rob will have with him at this meeting, and which we have in the works, to try a product that will be on the table and is the fruit of great and long-lasting efforts, coordination and also a controversy from the Convention on the Future of Europe onward. We can assume that, when we sow, similar treatments of negotiation, lobbying and search for a broader consensus take place in other capitals of Europe. Particularly lively as we know - there are our observers in the European Parliament - the past was the end of this in Brussels within the leading political groups and among the representatives of national parliaments, the European Parliament and the Parliament and the Convention. We can proudly say that the political group that our party to the United List of Social Democrats, as a full and active member of the European Social Democracy, as the second most powerful, the largest group in the Euro Parliament, has made a decisive contribution to the realization of the historic project of the enlarged, united and market-based European Union, which, in such a concept alone, can provide a continent or more precisely to its countries that have gone together, economically successful and socially equitable development and, if not already a leading role, in an increasingly globalised and interdependent world. The proposal for a constitutional treaty already drafted by the Convention is also our child. It reflects to a large extent the social democratic thought, both in the basic provisions, where the values and objectives of the new European Union are defined, as well as in its policies, freedom and equality, including gender equality and the protection of minorities, the model of the socio-market economy, full employment - and this is for the first time in a European Union document - fundamental rights as an integral part of the European Constitution, economic, social and territorial cohesion - so we are talking about regional development - the elimination of social exclusion, solidarity, social justice and special protection of children, the care of sustainable economic growth, competitiveness, fair trade, knowledge and technological development, and the care of the environment, and not least respect for cultural and linguistic diversity. We have endeavoured, and in this regard, the outcome of the intergovernmental conference is encouraging and encouraging, including for an agreement on a common foreign and security policy. We are satisfied with this address. Otherwise, the views of the government, which seek to improve the text and to improve the content of the treaty, as we have heard earlier in the introduction of the Prime Minister and later of the Minister, we support and hope for their success. Let me get this. The envisaged and expected adoption of the Treaty also marks the United List of Social Democrats' breakthrough historic event since the European Union's greatest enlargement. It is a unique document in the world, a unique constitutional arrangement that connects and regulates the association of countries with a very different historical, cultural, economic and social tradition and which carries within itself, hand to heart, some risks, but above all represents a great challenge and a great opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u23	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. My colleague, Dr Bernik, is the first person to give him my word in the debate of Members and Members. I want to let you know that I would like to end up with time just allowing. Excuse me, Comrade Dr. Bernick. On behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Just a moment, because I saw your hand. On behalf of the parliamentary group, colleague Krebs? No, no, no. Then Dr. Bernick has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Undoubtedly, the project of our entry into the European Union has been historic since the beginning and today. This does not apply only to the nations that are already in this community, but also to our country, because our entry will, of course, change the nature of our country, politics, etc. We have talked in public about what the European Union is, what we get, what we have to sacrifice, but I don't know if we've talked enough about the whole thing. The things that will change in the European Union after we enter are profound and essential and are enshrined in the European Constitution, which our people do not know enough. I am surprised that there is no analysis of this treaty anywhere, since, for example, the whole legion of different lawyers has written its opinion on the issue of deleted, and we do not really have any authoritarian text that we could give to people, and we have read it ourselves. Today, we know how our entry will affect our policy, our economy, our culture and our imprisonment to the outside world, and also our strong oath of the so-called conquests of the revolution, which are in total contradiction to the traditional values of Western countries. At the same time, allow me to express my surprise that the National Assembly will have only this debate on such an important document and on the Constitutional Treaty, because this gigantic project, if you read the Constitution, you will see, interferes with many aspects of our lives and the lives of countries, and this should be understood by our people a little more. This is so much more surprising because cooperation between the government and the National Assembly has been good, but sometimes more platonic with general and less binding guidance. In a few days, an agreement on the European Constitution may be reached in this preparatory conference. We ourselves do not even know if our government is ready for all these points, which are still controversial, to agree to compromises and perhaps even the extreme demands proposed by the members of the larger countries, and if our country or the leadership of the delegation insists on the positions we are defending today. It is also interesting to ask what the function of this national assembly will be after all this has happened. In the near future. It is also disturbing that we do not have a final agreement today between the national assembly and the government, with regard to cooperation between the two of us, after we are once in the European Union. There's also a whole bunch of things that we should be thinking about, if not on paper. Like, say, the functioning of the National Assembly in the last year of this mandate, what will happen to the Rules of Procedure, the replacement of Members elected to the European Parliament and so on. Unfortunately, I must say that I think that all the state authorities in our country operate without practice in order to develop programmes for each project and then to continue and update them. If that's not true, I apologize, but then I can say that at least some of us have never seen it before. I had this feeling many years ago, when we first presented our entry into the European Union. Many years ago. There we have heard what the European Union will require of us before we enter, and absolutely nothing about how we will have or will be able to respond to these requirements. I drew my own attention to the need for the European Minister, which was then discussed, to the Minister for Slovenia, to the Slovenians, who would see that all the things that the European Union will ask of us are somehow aligned with what we want as a nation. Of course, this has not happened.After some recent public presentations by civil society and also the previous week of the Slovenian Commission in place and around the world, it has become increasingly clear that people feel the need to systematically review our options and risks for a unified Slovenian cultural, economic and other space that will arise after our entry into the European Union. Even today, I would like to appeal to the government to determine one, if I may say under the terms "negotiator", who will cooperate with all ministers and see that Slovenian interests, for the first time, are perceived, marked and that we will do something about it. I have to say to the government and to everyone who has participated in this gigantic project, all recognition for the effort, but the quality of this work will only be visible in a few years. I sincerely hope that quality will prevail over the problems that will also follow our entry and entry of other countries. Finally, let me mention something else that I have already mentioned on the Foreign Policy Committee, and that is, I am concerned about what will happen to the future of the Council of Europe and also about the fact that the European Union has not adopted the proposal made by the Council of Europe to make their Charter of Human Rights a charter for the European Union. Perhaps one of the negotiators could recall that this is another of the inconsequential things, and it might be good for us or our delegation and our negotiating people to include it among the important points before we sign the new agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u25	Thank you, Comrade Dr. Bernick. My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. I must be honest with you that it is true that you asked me by letter on 17 November to be consulted by the Commission on the appropriateness of any plenary session on the course of the Intergovernmental Conference on the Constitutional Treaty. I have written down to you on 18.11 that, as regards the plenary session on the progress of the Intergovernmental Conference on the Constitutional Treaty, I should like to inform you that I have also placed this topic on the agenda of the Commission, agreeing with you on the appropriateness of the time for its reference. So much for that. And then somewhere else, a slightly stronger client was told, and Peterlet didn't, so it took so much of this negotiation before it happened. However, it would be very difficult for our commission to deal with the material that came from the government yesterday. For such an important thing, you dragged us as far as you could into time distress and prevented us from doing business normally. How will the Commission deal with it, which could not have known that it would receive material from the government on such important matters on Monday. One day you let us read the information. Now, one more question, as a Member of Parliament, about one point of view. At the bottom of page 5, information from the Government entitled 2.C Slovenian Opinions on key substantive issues, in the latter part, pardon, third sentence back, from the latter reads, "The function of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Union must be subject to the same principle of rotation as those of the Commission." I don't understand what that would be. I would therefore ask the Minister to explain this because I think it is really unclear, or even very wrong. I don't know if a minister's office is possible, but I don't know which rotation principles would be subject to the fact that the government is representing the position that nothing is rotating on the committee. No one's turning because everyone has the same rights. I'd like clarity here, or we'll smile.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u27	Thank you very much. My friend Peterle, instead of any procedural clarification, I find something that we'll probably both agree on and we'll all agree on. The success of the European Union project was due to our collective efforts, opposition and coalition, irrespective of the government that is currently in position. The Commission for European Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy has done a lot of work in this regard, and no small thing can cast any shadow on this big event. It is important that we also have this meeting today, that it is in plenary session, to monitor the events, that the Prime Minister hears Parliament's position before leaving. Now I'm going to give my word to my colleague Krebs, and then I think the Prime Minister wants a word. Mr. Foreign Minister, please, first colleague of Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen. The draft Constitutional Treaty for Europe, the so-called Constitutional Treaty, is the result of a long and firm part of the Convention on the Future of Europe. And, Mr Peterle, I was extremely proud of the fact that, on behalf of the acceding countries, ten countries, you represented in the Presidency of this country, as a Slovenian, as my colleague in this House, and I think there is no reason for us to have the feeling that we have not all deeply respected and supported you in this work of yours. We can see that the Treaty is a summary of the existing ones, of the Treaties establishing the European Community and of the Treaty in the European Union, and of the cities as regards their upgrading, which is intended to allow for more transparent, efficient, more understandable and, of course, more consistent action, the enlargement of the European Union, that is to say, the enlargement of the European Union with as many as 25 Member States and about 500 million citizens, which we will, of course, witness in May 2004. Given the pressing problem of the democratic deficit facing the European Union, the question is how to reduce the sense of alienation of European institutions from its citizens and how to bring the people of the European Union closer to action and decision-making in the European Union itself. That is why I would like to focus my debate on the role and importance of the Protocol on the role of national parliaments in the European Union, which is an integral part of the draft Constitutional Treaty. The Protocol in the European Union is unknown. A step towards a greater role for national parliaments and understanding the need for deeper and more intensive interparliamentary cooperation has already been recognised by the Amsterdam Treaty. The draft, however, brings two important innovations that promote awareness of the more important and active role of national parliaments within the framework of the European Union. First time. The Protocol clearly sets out the Commission's clear duty to forward all documents, including the annual legislative programme and all other legislative planning instruments and policy strategies directly to the national parliaments of the Member States when published. And a second time. In the second part of this Protocol, as a novelty, the Protocol provides that the European Parliament and the national parliaments shall jointly determine how to organise and promote effective and regular interparliamentary cooperation within the European Union. Given the general belief that the intergovernmental conference will not interfere with the text of the Protocol as set out in the draft Constitutional Treaty, which, of course, I can conclude from the words of the Prime Minister, who did not mention the Protocol among the issues facing the meetings of the intergovernmental conference, there are parallel discussions on the objectives and modalities of interparliamentary cooperation in the national parliaments and at the meetings of the Presidents of the national parliaments with the cooperation of the European Parliament. It is an indisputable awareness of the need and importance of the collective role of national parliaments, which we are aware of, which we can also see at the various working meetings of the Presidents of the European Parliaments, where they are discussing in depth how to encourage cooperation within the European Union also at the level of national parliaments. In the context of both the news brought by the Protocol, I am convinced that, as a concrete identification of the acquisition that I have undertaken for the first time, it is particularly useful to support and implement the idea of the so-called European Week, which we, as representatives of the Slovenian Parliament, also advocated at the meeting of the Presidents of Parliaments in Sweden this year. The national parliaments, including the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, would consider the annual, legislative or working programme of the Commission at its plenary session. The implementation of this idea is towards a reduction of the democratic deficit and it means getting our citizens and citizens to know about the work of the European Union and allowing us, Members, a debate on the European Union's legislative and other proposals and, of course, all the general exchange of views and opinions on the so-called European issues. At the same time, I see this as one of the possible ways of interparliamentary cooperation, as it would be advisable to submit a report from each national Parliament on this programme to the European Parliament and the rest of the European Union's parliaments. The specificisation lays down a protocol on interparliamentary cooperation also means supporting or encouraging the national assembly to pursue, in particular, two fundamental objectives of interparliamentary cooperation. Firstly, providing information and deepening work in intergovernmentally regulated areas is foreign policy, defence and security, and ensuring the effective implementation of parliamentary views, in particular on subsidiarity. These objectives, as well as additional cross-parliamentary cooperation, have also been highlighted by representatives of almost most national parliaments of the Member States and acceding countries because of the need to strengthen the control of the European Union budget. At the same time, we must not ignore the need to define in practice existing cooperation between members of the European Parliament and Members of the national parliaments of the Member States. It is recommended that representatives of national parliaments participate in the meetings of the European Parliament, when necessary and welcome, and vice versa, in the participation of members of the European Parliament in the working bodies of national parliaments, all in the interests of better, better exchange of information and views and in the interests of democratic deficits, and in the deepening of the sense of belonging between Members of the European Parliament and their constituents and voters. I would like to mention just a few more forms or frameworks of interparliamentary cooperation, which are either already in place or there is a high degree of consensus between the national parliaments of the Member States of the European Union and the acceding countries in their future implementation. It is a conference of the Presidents of the European Union's Parliaments, a conference of national parliamentary working bodies responsible for European affairs, so-called COSAC, a regular exchange of information through AIPEX and an exchange between the Permanent Representations of the National Parliaments in Brussels. Let me conclude with the conviction that the draft Constitutional Treaty, which was drafted or refined by the Convention on the Future of Europe, is a good foundation in this area, for the first time, both for the establishment of the supervision of the national Parliament over the functioning of the government in the decision-making processes of the European Union, which is, of course, the internal political issue of each country itself, and for the second time for the continued and permanent cooperation of the European Parliament with the national parliaments, whose task is to agree on ways and methods for the future to promote effective and regular interparliamentary cooperation within the European Union. Slovenian Members and Members will participate actively in these processes, with the aim that European affairs will also be the cases of Slovenian citizens and citizens as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u29	Thank you very much, colleague Krebs. Mr Prime Minister will have to travel, as he said at the outset, with your permission, when I think it is time to reach out to the debate, if there is still an application for a debate, please let me know, otherwise you will be given the floor after the performance of colleague Jakič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. I would not like to be the one to hold the Prime Minister to attend an important meeting with the President, but in spite of everything. Today we have heard thanks and are truly grateful to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the negotiations, but in particular we must not forget the very good cooperation of the Government and the National Assembly, not only in the beginning, in the negotiating venues, but also in the preparation of various forums and in addressing the issue of the Convention in the competent working bodies. So I will not repeat what my colleagues and colleagues have said. Nevertheless, I would like to place it on the heart of the Prime Minister when he leaves and at the summit, which will take place tomorrow, to communicate something that we really want to report. This is that, as parliamentarians - and given that both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister are both parliamentarians on a temporary basis in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, do not forget the component repeated by the European Parliament and its President Pat Cox. And that is that the role of Parliament is extremely important in the elimination of the so-called democratic deficit. And that in these negotiations, when you negotiate everything that's written here - and I'm sure you'll be successful, because things show that around institutional matters, around all the other things more or less follow the conclusions that we wanted here. Nevertheless, the European Parliament should remain one who has at least this power or the only power, and that is to control the budget of the European Union and thereby address this democratic deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u31	I'll give the floor first to Dr. Dimitri Ruple, Minister for Foreign Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! I am aware of the importance of national parliaments and our Parliament in particular. Finally, this Parliament will have to discuss the issues we are talking about now thoroughly when a constitutional treaty, which is an international treaty and which this national assembly will have to ratify. Before that, however, it will be necessary to discuss many things, after all, to report to this Parliament on the concluded intergovernmental conference. If you will allow me, Mr President, honourable Members and Members, I would like to say a few words on the issues raised here today at this meeting. With regard to the President of the Council, this is the question of fellow Member Peterlet. You know that, already in the Convention, we have endeavoured to determine precisely his powers and that these powers would not be too much to get a President who would be competitive with the President of the Commission, but would be more or less President. At the intergovernmental conference, we took another step forward. What we expected in the Convention has somehow been fulfilled, and in fact, in the intergovernmental conference we are preparing that if, for example, a provision could constitute a legal basis for the creation of a special administration, we would oppose such a provision at this point. We believe that the work of the President or the President of the Council, if you wish, would be supported by the existing General Secretariat of the Council. Such are our positions, or our thoughts, when we consider how it is necessary to place precisely the powers of the President of the world. With regard to the Commission's question, he also asked his colleague Peterle how we picture the Commission in 2007, after the number of members has grown and so on, but the Prime Minister will also talk about it. Let me say that Slovenia is, of course, striving to have as many Commissioners as there are Member States and that all Commissioners would have the right to vote. If this proposal, which is identical to the European Commission's proposal, can be implemented or if there is adequate support, this solution will, of course, be the best. At this point, of course, we cannot go so far as to experience the situation when there will be many more Member States or a few more Members, of course we would be in favour of the fact that the former Members continue to have their own Commissioner and that all Commissioners, regardless of the number of Members, would have an electoral right. As regards the revision of the Constitutional Treaty. We agree with the compromise proposed by the Convention concerning the revision of the Constitutional Treaty, which is Article 47 and its related articles. Let me mention only two matters concerning the role of national parliaments. It is a decision to proceed out of unanimity to a qualified majority or from a special legislative procedure to a normal legislative or legislative procedure. It is a matter of not being able to make a decision if national parliaments oppose it. This is part of this problem, the audit. It is a second part of the problem; it is about correcting or recording the internal policies of the European Union. Here too, we believe that there is no need to increase competence, but that the decision of the European Council by qualified majority and by the consent of all Member States is only possible provided that national parliaments are involved in the decision-making process or that the procedure is carried out in the manner envisaged in the Member States according to their constitutions. As far as structured cooperation is concerned, the situation is now under the latest arrangements, I think that these arrangements are indeed some kind of breakthrough, according to agreements in the conclave, that this situation is significantly better than what we used to know. It is no longer a condition of eight members or a condition of one third or half of the members, but it is an open structure, as I originally said. This open structure allows Slovenia and, of course, all the Member States that can and want to join it. In some ways, the question that we, who have some Yugoslav memory, are reminded of from the time of the discussions on the convoy and how the convoy can only go at the speed of the slowest article or the slowest ship. It is precisely because of this experience that Slovenia can support the system or the idea of structured cooperation, which means some kind of differentiation between those who are more capable than those who are less capable. Of course, Slovenia is imagining or will do everything to be in the category of those who are the most capable. With regard to the question of the role of the Foreign Minister, colleague Peterlet. The proposal for a convention with which the government has agreed and supported it is that the Foreign Minister is a member - I am talking about the Foreign Minister of the European Union - that he is a member of the College of the Commission, namely the Commissioner, even the Vice-President of the Commission. In this respect, he would be a fully equal member of the College of the Commission. We support the view that each member has one Commissioner in the European Commission and that all Commissioners have equal status. If the Foreign Minister as Commissioner were exempted from the principle of rotation - I hope that this solution will be followed - then this would mean that a member of the Commission would have two members, perhaps even two members with voting rights. In this case, the members would not be levelled, but one member would have the advantage. This would, of course, violate the principles of equality of members in the composition of the Commission, which Slovenia is not committed to. Just a few words more about questions from my colleague Barovic. Slovenia is in favour of being included in the budgetary debate or of retaining its powers in the budgetary debate of the European Parliament. As far as the Stability Pact is concerned. This is, of course, not a question or an issue of an intergovernmental conference. This is not the issue of an intergovernmental conference. It is clear, however, that we, too, are looking carefully and also a little worried at the issue of the special rights of some members. As far as the referendum is concerned. Will there be a referendum on the Constitutional Treaty? I wouldn't want to do that right now, or I wouldn't have hoped to. In Slovenia, I think such a referendum would be successful in any case if we conclude that the referendum on the European Union was successful last time. But I think it's because we already had a referendum that might not make sense to organise another one. As for the Commissioners' role, this is the last question, asked or suggested not only their number but also their content and functioning. That's not what the intergovernmental conference is talking about. What functions, duties, rights and so on, Commissioners, are, of course, already set out in many European documents. The Commissioners are the shortest-spoken representatives of European interest. And that is why they are not really representatives of the countries, although, of course, countries insist on sending each of them to the committee of their own representative, because these Commissioners, no matter what, represent a symbolic link between the Commission and the country. Among the Commission, where, in fact, the largest number of information concerns the life of the European Union. That's it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Foreign Minister. Before deciding on the motions, I will give the floor to the Prime Minister, Master Anton Rope. Please, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u34	Dear Members. Of course, I would first like to thank you very much for your cooperation, for your comments made today, and also for the support you have given us for our work in the coming days. As you know, immediately after this meeting, I am traveling to Rome to meet with the President-in-Office of the European Council, where we will take note of the Presidency's latest proposals. Of course, I believe that after the successful start of the week, there will also be so many compromise solutions in these proposals that they will facilitate the work of the intergovernmental conference. If we look at the key solutions and also the dilemmas to which we have been exposed and in which Slovenia actively participated both at the time of the convention and at the time of the intergovernmental conference, then we can have the basis for moderate optimism, as I said before. However, at some of the most important points of discussion there has been a shift and a relatively high consensus. We have also just heard some of this from the Foreign Minister, concerning the President of the European Council, the Foreign Minister. Of course, this is extremely important. I think that an important step forward has been taken as regards in-depth structural cooperation. The Minister said that we would support a solution that would go in the direction of, of course, going in this direction in the end, so that these formal criteria, as regards the number of countries involved, would withdraw and be replaced by actual, substantive criteria. If replaced by actual, substantive criteria, this allows Slovenia to be included in those countries that will move forward, which will develop further in individual higher-speed segments and will join the countries that are most successful in the European Union. We believe that we can do this, so such a solution certainly suits us. As far as the European Commission and its structure and role and the position of individual Commissioners were concerned, some of Mr Loize Peterle's questions were raised. We have had a very broad discussion in the past period on what the position of the Commission is and what the role of the individual Commissioner or what right the Commissioners within the Commission should have. Slovenia has joined so-called thinkers in this part. We have held meetings, many bilateral, some leading countries within this group, and we have also been among the leaders. I am speaking, of course, about Austria, about Finland, we have made further discussions and also examined the proposals made by Sweden, Denmark, so that we actually have a matrix of solutions in this area that are all, I think, better than what was adopted in the Convention's resolution and go from those 15 European Commissioners with voting rights and portfolios and ten who do not have those rights, but members to looking for an optimal structure, as far as the number of commissioners and portfolios and voting rights are concerned, with the combination of voting rights or non-voting rights in the rest, to the optimal solution that is in the diagonal, at the top of this pyramid, that is 25 Commissioners with voting rights and portfolio. Of course, it is also an option, and quite a number of reflections are going in this direction in order to extend the period of full voting rights by a certain period and to test the way in which the Commission operates in this case at that time. I am talking not only about 2009, but as an option in 2014, like the period after which we would think, change or maintain this way. All these solutions are better and all these solutions are acceptable to us if they are proposed. I hope that any of these proposed tonight will be heard in which direction the Presidency is thinking and Slovenia will join these solutions, and this will be part of the success of this group of equally thinking countries and some other countries, in particular the smaller countries, which we have all tried to play a greater role in us and better and more effectively to exercise the interests of our countries. Of course, every time we discuss within the Intergovernmental Conference on the Constitutional Treaty, there are two objectives. On the one hand, achieving the objectives of equality, democracy, the application of individual countries and this principle of decision-making. On the other hand, what the larger countries point out to a certain extent and what needs to be taken into account is the effectiveness of the functioning of the European Union. And we are interested in the effective functioning of the European Union. In this context, optimism must be sought and, of course, compromise must be sought. Of course, I hope, I believe that we are now approaching this compromise, which would allow for the exercise of our interests on the other hand, on the other hand, the effective functioning of the European Union. If we look at all these areas that I've been talking about, there's another area that's more sensitive, and that's decision-making with a qualified majority. In this part, in fact, the task ahead of us is the most difficult and will continue to be discussed. I hope, of course, that we will be able to reach an appropriate consensus here, although the solution proposed in the convention for Slovenia is still acceptable. This solution also represents for Slovenia, given its size, on its gross domestic product, on the number of inhabitants, a disproportionate impact and, of course, the exercise of equality of Slovenia's Slovenians within the European Union, and I believe that there will also be a good solution in this area. If I do. I think that in the area of the Constitutional Treaty it has shown that, in particular in the foreign policy area, there are a number of points where we can work together - the government, parliament, position and opposition - and, of course, if we succeed, and this has worked, then we can be effective, then we can enforce both our people and of course our ideas and effectively exercise our interests. I firmly believe that even after this meeting of the intergovernmental conference, we can be satisfied in Slovenia and that we will achieve our goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u35	Mr Prime Minister, thank you very much for your participation in this debate today. In doing so, I wish you a happy journey to Rome and at the conference where you will participate, a successful conclusion to the decision-making process, where the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia also voted. Thank you very much. We will now move to a debate and a decision on the complementary proposal for decisions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the information provided, she presented to the assembly a proposal for conclusions, which was addressed today by the Committee on Foreign Policy and prepared a supplementary proposal, which I am now putting to the debate and then also to the decision-making process. The conclusions are three. The first is of a determining nature, but it still needs to be decided, the second and third are of a substantive nature. Does anyone want to discuss them, or can we move on to a decision? Okay. Please check your voting devices to make sure they are all right so they will not be embarrassed by the vote. We will proceed to a decision on the decision under order number one, which is of a determining nature. Does anyone have a microphone on? [[No, no, ……]] The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia took note of the activities of the Government of the Republic at the intergovernmental conference. We're voting. Are we voting on the proposal for a decision under order number 1? Attending 73, 69 for, no one against. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision under order number 2: The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the final stage of the intergovernmental conference, to work towards the enforcement of adopted and endorsed views and to support the text of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe, which will be the result of the consent of the Member States of the European Union and the acceding countries. We're voting. I'm sorry. I'm interrupting the vote. I didn't notice the hand of my colleague Peterlet, who wants to explain his voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to know exactly what the second decision means and what it means in connection with this third decision. We only take the first conclusion for granted, and there is no substantive nature. They're second and third. In another, it is said to the government that it is possible to adopt and confirm views, probably at the PSC, that this does not explicitly say, that it is seeking to implement. I think we've opened the door very wide. If they succeed, they will be able to read it if they do not, as well as good. We're very wide here. But I have to, because there's no other way to compare it to a third. In the third, we authorise the government, we give it the Bianca feeling that whatever it proposes as a compromise proposal from the European Commission, without any further knowing what it will be like, we authorize it to support it. Very different levels of commitment. What we have said here is to do, and what the Commission, which I highly appreciate, with the President in charge, will say, should be uncompromisingly supported. I don't think it's worthy of this national assembly or our government, so I'm not going to support these two conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u37	Anyone else want a word of explanation? [[No, no, ……]] We vote on the proposal for a decision under order number 2. We're voting. 75 attended 62 for and 9 for. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are now deciding on the proposal under order number 3. The National Assembly authorises the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the final stage of the intergovernmental conference, to support a possible compromise proposal from the European Commission. Please. Explanation of voice. Please. Dr. Bayuk's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote against this proposal. I don't think he makes any sense. If I had a responsibility in the executive branch today, I would ask this national assembly not to accept it. Indeed, this proposal, this third part, actually reduces the possibility of negotiating our delegation at these meetings. Because they will know; yea, gentlemen, what ye say, for ye have the Bianca menu, for ye can sign whatever ye will. I think it is enough that we have said in the second decision to our delegation, our government on behalf of the National Assembly, to take the lead. Of course, let us pursue what we understand be understandable proposals. But if we add number three to that, gentlemen, do whatever you want, then we've actually caused some flaw in their posture. They won't be able to negotiate. I will vote against this and ask others to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u39	A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. I, too, will vote against this proposal for a third decision, which actually says that it does not matter if we today are familiar with these positions with the final phase of the negotiations or not. On this basis, we give our negotiators everything, and we believe that everything the European Commission proposes as a compromise proposal can also support this. I do not think that such a position should be adopted by the National Assembly, because we are in fact giving Bianca an opinion on something that we do not even know what the final compromise proposal of the European Commission is going to be. I will therefore also vote against this decision because it also preserves a measure of the dignity of this national assembly and of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u41	Comrade Anderlich, then Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u42	Nor will I support this proposal for a decision, because it seems completely unnecessary or contradictory to me or whatever you wish. However, given the time in which this meeting is taking place, I really do not know what this decision will mean. It is that, at some stage, when the conclaves are over when the compromises are just before the final decision or adoption, and with a second decision, we have actually done what the National Assembly is obliged to do, that is to suggest to the government that it should try to bring the whole matter to an end in the context of the views adopted and endorsed. This seems quite enough to me, because what the Foreign Affairs Committee is doing under the Foreign Affairs Act, which has been involved throughout the whole stage in the formation of views, cannot replace the assembly with such a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u43	Comrade Jelinčič, with your permission, will you allow him to give an explanation to Minister Rupel in front of you or not? Please, Minister Rupel, and then my colleague Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u44	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Out of respect for the Committee on Foreign Policy, I did not wish to object to this proposal or to this third point. In fact, it will not have any special impact on what is happening at the intergovernmental conference, because there is no proposal or negotiator for a European Commission. There are government negotiators and government representatives at the intergovernmental conference, so in fact this will not affect the situation in any way. I would agree with the Member who spoke before me that we may actually be able to survive without this conclusion, but I do not want to and I cannot influence the flow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u45	Okay. Then I will probably find out on the basis of statements that this will be our common position. Please, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u46	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian National Party, we expected such a third decision, which would allow the government to do with the Republic of Slovenia, which it seems and whatever it seems. It's just in the style of a ruling coalition, [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Yes, some of you are against it, which means that some colleagues have overlooked it, and I hope that they will miss their colleagues sufficiently that this decision will not be adopted. However, I am confident that the United List, as a faithful heir to a former organisation, will vote in favour. I think myself, and in the Slovenian National Party, we think that this is the first step in helping Europe. Such conclusions do not need to be, and such conclusions do not stifle us from Europe, but they do show us the position that they will then assign to us if we act this way. The Slovenian national party is critical to Europe, the only critical one. Everyone else somehow walks about half a meter above the ground and you think they're waiting for you on the other side of that line that's called May 1, 2004, to get everything you couldn't afford in your life. That's not gonna happen. It will be much worse and much more repugnant than it is today, but the current coalition government is already concerned that it is very bad in Slovenia and is worse from day to day. After all, the government has a lot of competence here. On the other hand, we know that the constitution of the government does not define at all. I mean, here we have a whole bunch of discreets in the internal political space and in the internal political acts, and we haven't arranged them yet. But we are in a hurry to bow down to a master we have replaced from Belgrade to Brussels. We'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u47	My fellow Master Petty Officer. You're the last one. Then we'll make a decision. My friend Run, yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. I will also oppose the adoption of this Decision. Look, there's more than one reason. I haven't heard from him in the debate before. This debate we had today would have been very good if we had done it at least six months ago. Anyway, it was done today. Better today than never. In order to get those who have talked in any way in any institution to prepare the European Constitution and to include them so as to have a basis. I hope they've negotiated well and done their job well. But that is what this conclusion of today shows that we do not take our independence seriously. Such a decision will, of course, weaken the position of the government. And the lesson of today's story regarding the present decision, which was drawn up on the Committee on International Affairs, was also rejected by Members of the New Slovenia, namely that it is a poor negotiating position, and on the other hand this means adopting decisions that the government can't take into account. As you know, in the procedure, there is a law on cooperation between the European Parliament and the Republic, i.e. the State Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia, and there we have strongly insisted that in the text there is also a place for binding positions and binding, so that, as long as the Parliament adopts a binding position, the government must also keep. So, once again, I stress the need to put that comment into the legislation that we are going to adopt in the coming periods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u49	My buddy Candy, his buddy Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. From the beginning, I was afraid that we would also support this decision, because we are actually now acting, we are starting a relationship between the national assembly and the government on European matters. Soon we will have a marriage here on the table on this subject, and, gentlemen, this relationship will be as we shall determine. The parliamentary deficit that Europe is reminding us of will be as deep and as great as we will set here. And I hope that some of this sobriety will prevail in the adoption of the Parliament-Government Relations Act on European Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u51	My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The text of point 3 of the decision is unnecessary and would also be contrary to the decision under point 2. However, I firmly believe that the direction given in the second decision is broad enough and constructive enough for the government to be able to act in line with it, as it has done so far, and that we will contribute in our country to an agreement and a timely agreement on what will be the Constitutional Treaty for Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u53	We can decide. The National Assembly will vote on the decision under order number three. He did not accept this proposal. 5 out of 79 voted for him, 63 against him. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 63.]] This is how we have decided on all matters of this agenda item and can conclude it. Thank you to everyone who has or has participated in this work. Let's move on to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT'S FOR A REFERENCE TO THE REFERENCE OF THE EXECUTIVE LEGISLATIVE REFERENCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION LAW 8. POINTS OF THE DECISION OF THE REPRESENTATIVE COURT OF SLOVENIA The request for the invitation to tender for the subsequent legislative referendum was submitted to the assembly by a group of 30 Members, with first-signed colleague Janez Janš. I will give the floor to my colleague, Dr Brejc, who is a representative of the proposers of this request. Then he'll get the word of his colleague Lavrinc and in a row. My friend Brace first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u54	Ladies and gentlemen. Let me first draw your attention to a procedural matter. Today, in the National Assembly, we should decide on a proposal for a resolution on the call for a referendum in which citizens and citizens of Slovenia would ask: are you to enforce the law implementing the 8th paragraph of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia number and so on, adopted in the National Assembly on 25.11.2003. However, if we look at yesterday's agenda of the Committee on Internal Policy or today's agenda of the National Assembly, we see that the point is: a request for a call for an ex-legislative referendum on law and so on. So it is not a decision that we should discuss, but a decision on the call for a referendum, but we are talking today about discussing the requirement of 30 Members. In all the referendums so far, the National Assembly adopted a decision on the call for a referendum, setting the date and so on. Not today, nor did the Internal Policy Committee. So, what's going on in this national convention? Are you changing the rules by the way? For the democratic process would be to make a point, say, a decree, a proposal for a call for proposals and so on and then to discuss this in the Internal Policy Committee. Most would, for example, feel that the ruling is not appropriate, that it may be unconstitutional, that it would be decided by the Constitutional Court - all right. The same should be done in the case of a meeting of the National Assembly, the agenda items currently available. Thus, the decree is a point of order, a debate and then, whatever it is, a decision. That's not what you're doing here. It is said that if 30 members of the National Assembly sign a request for a referendum, and this requirement is the basis for a call for a decision, then one would expect the leadership of the National Assembly and its professional service, as well as a specific legislative and legal service, to find out that the request of 30 Members is not being discussed but that a decision is being discussed. That's an essential difference. Because now, of course, I am asking you what will be decided by the Constitutional Court if you so decide, but if the National Assembly has not prepared the basis for the decision in the National Assembly. The Members' request for a referendum is legal and legitimate, but in itself cannot be the subject of a constitutional court's judgment, because it is a request and not a decision. Otherwise, we can say that the action we witnessed yesterday and today reminded us all of how to say orchestrated action, in which the will of the authorities must take place, and it should cost us what it wants. And what did that look like? The government is in a written session - I stress this, it is said, about such a complex, difficult issue the government has decided at a written session! And what do the correspondence sessions look like? Yes, very simple - probably Minister Bohinc has prepared some text, sent it around, "by 12.00 give me comments if you have them, if not, it is considered that the text has been adopted". So, in such a formal, bureaucratic way, these things have happened, I suppose, of course; it is said, no debate, just formalistic. Unfortunately, the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly has followed this requirement, the policy requirements [[There is no critical distance in its text]] However, the Internal Policy Committee is one way or another and does not show much to talk about. Apart from the fact that we warned the opposition Members yesterday that the Committee on Internal Policy was not on the right track, they then taught us how to be such and such. But the conclusion that you adopted yesterday, which you're amendments to today, is interesting. Yesterday, you adopted a decision on the Committee on Internal Policy by a majority of votes: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia requires the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia to decide that the content of the request for a subsequent legislative referendum" and so on, "contravention of the Constitution". It is said that the National Assembly orders the Constitutional Court to decide that this is unconstitutional, that the referendum is unconstitutional. This is a decision that you defended yesterday in a way that is right, I would say, a real socialist environment. And it's a whole bunch of lawyers, my dear, a whole bunch of lawyers! And here was a law enforcement service that had nothing against such a decision and had not warned that this decision was nonsense. But please. Here's this conclusion. Yesterday we were against it, and you voted us over. But today you did what we talked about yesterday. So it's not possible for you to order the Constitutional Court what to do. All you can do is ask him to judge things. And today you have come to your senses, thank God you wrote the decision in the right way. Well, I believe, Mr. Anderlich, that you weren't on the board and you would've made those lawyers. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u55	It's not a controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u56	have been taught if necessary. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u57	There is no controversy in the presentation of views, not [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u58	In those days, we are witnessing the insulting treatment of all those who signed the referendum request, to sow intolerance, hatred - even with Nazi Germany and its February - if you remember the Goebbles mentioned - we have been compared, in particular, by the Ombudsman, Mr Hanžek, only because we have dared to question the appropriateness of the law adopted by the National Assembly. This is said to be the case, the legislature of the National Assembly in its opinion on the other hand, and I quote: "The law for which decisions are required to be taken subsequently on the legislative referendum has, however, designed the implementation of the 8th paragraph of the sentence somewhat differently than that laid down by the Constitutional Court in that decision, but is consistent with its essence or purpose." That's what law enforcement says. Oh. K. has the right to think so and write it down. But now allow us, 30 Members, that we do not think so. We 30 Members do not believe that this is not in conformity with the essence or purpose of this law. That's what we say in our own explanation. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, because it is not so long, in fact it is only two sides of the text that you could read it. We don't ask for anything else, just like he says. How many times do I have to say we don't hate anyone? That we're not against the non-Slovakia. That we are not against the Roma, who, after this Constitutional Court decision, now feel deprived and are already demanding their rights. It's not our intention to deny human rights to anyone. Last but not least, we have been among those among the first to stand up for human rights. But we are in favour of equal and fair treatment for all those who live in Slovenia. It should all be and apply to the same meter. All those seeking justice in court have the right to exercise their right to a judicial decision. But that is not the case in Slovenia. Some are privileged in this right. I would not now like to list again the constitutional decisions of 1997, 1998, and so on. We did not discuss a constitutional decision, we did not comment on a constitutional decision, but we believe that respect should be given. We have, however, the same as the government, in the opposition, the right to look at how this constitutional decision should be implemented. We agree with the opinions of distinguished lawyers who advised Minister Bohinc that a special law must be drawn up to implement the constitutional decision. After all, the government has prepared two. All right, well, that's what the government's decision is. But let us, too, have our own opinion, to express it here, to stand up for it, to collect signatures, to do what is right under the rules of this country. We, in our thirties of signatures, are not the principles of anything but that we want to say that, in our view, this conduct was not the right thing to do in this national assembly. And all we're adding to this is that the 8th-point law is inadequate. In our opinion, it is inadequate to require two laws. At no point do we dispute with the Constitutional Court. We believe that the law does not implement the constitutional decision in an appropriate manner. Okay, we're wrong, you'll say. Okay, but let others judge that. A question is also asked, and in these days we have received a whole series of such questions. I've directed them at the President of the National Assembly, Mr. Pahor. What's the rush with this marriage? Because it's about people who already have a permanent residence. It's about people who already have citizenship. So it's only a matter of admitting some right to them back. That's what they say. They're not injured right now. At this point, their status is not compromised, and he was suspected of being compromised at some point in time. Okay. But look, we already have a number of people who have been deprived of their right in the Constitutional Court every year, because this national assembly and, of course, the government has not prepared a law on income, pastors, etc. - because you remember these things. So what's the rush? I don't know. That's probably what the government itself knows. The request for a referendum shall be justified for the following reasons. For the first time, because the law is bad, it is unselective, it is not actually checked for the time period regulated by the law in the Republic of Slovenia. The law is discriminatory because it creates new inequalities. What about those non - Slovenians who made an effort to settle their status in a timely manner, even though it was as painful or excruciating as we read in one such book of the Peace Institute today? But yet thousands of people went into this process and settled their status. What about those who live in the European Union? What about them? A suitable and only appropriate arrangement with one law would be appropriate. In fact, we already have him in the process. The request for a referendum is also justified because the law is flawed, covering only one group of people covered by a constitutional decision. It does not regulate the verification procedure for the actual permanent residence for the entire period covered by it and is based solely on the assumption that this verification has already been carried out, which is obviously incorrect and misleading and therefore the rule of law is not acceptable. You don't doubt the peaceful conscience of the Constitutional Judges, do you? What do you imagine that the Constitutional Judges would take a decision that gives a flat rate to everyone if they assumed that the cases of individuals acting against the State were in between? I doubt we'd do that. So this good purpose should be used by law, because in one way or another you are the law, the one you have somehow adapted in your implementing provision. Why don't you, if you said a, say b? The law is flawed because it does not distinguish between those who are entitled to return to their permanent residence and those who have acted against the country of Slovenia even with armed aggression, despite the fact that even some constitutional judges or former constitutional judges have warned of the necessity of such an arrangement. It doesn't address the issue of compensation. The position of the Ministry of the Interior or the Government is completely flawed if it turns out that the amount of compensation is too much for the budget, it will be subsequently restricted or regulated by law. For example, after so much and so much compensation has been claimed, it will not be possible to limit it legally and not to regulate it in practical terms. As long as the National Assembly follows the opinion of one of the Constitutional Judges, former Constitutional Judges, such as Dr Jerovsk, by which no one can be entitled to compensation under this title, this should clearly be recorded in this law. Wouldn't that be the opposite of a constitutional provision, would it? To the extent that it considers that compensation is possible, however, we should now limit their level in this law, lay some criteria, in short, to form some basis that would be the basis for calculating the possible financial consequences. So you see, the referendum requirement is justified, even more than that - it is necessary. Such a law is a precedent, since it has never happened that the National Assembly would exclude and regulate only one point in the Constitutional Court decision in a special law and regulate the rest of the decision in another law. This raises the question of the Government's justification that it is only a technical law. If the law is only of a technical nature, it is obviously unnecessary, since another law that is in the process is sufficient, of course, taking into account what I have said so far. In this case, the call for a referendum cannot in any way be disputed when it comes to technical law. However, if the law actually interferes with the field of human rights and has at least indirect material consequences, the government's argument that it is only a technical law would mean, and I think it still means, the direct deception of both the national assembly and the Slovenian public. In this case, the enforcement of such a law would be legally and ethically unacceptable. However, it would be urgent to ask the responsibility of the government, which in this way deceived citizens and citizens and, in particular, Members of the National Assembly. How many more times will it have to be said that in our case of insistence on a referendum on this law is not a substantive assessment of the constitutional provision. The question of the referendum requirement is clear: it is not a matter of assessing the content of the constitutional provision, but rather how the Constitutional Court decision is implemented. So that's what's at stake for us. For, look, even if the referendum ends with a majority decision not to confirm the law, is it said that the law does not apply; does this mean that the constitutional decision does not apply? Answer me that question, please. Of course not! The Constitutional Decision shall continue to apply, except that this law shall not continue to apply. The government says the law is just technical and doesn't talk about rights or anything. So if it's a technical law, if it's not a right, then why should we judge the content of a constitutional decision and talk about human rights? People have a right - the Constitution states that power has a people, but I have a feeling that these are more phrases than the real constitutional provisions, after what is happening in the National Assembly - people have the right to speak about how power executes constitutional decisions. And I hear it's not in violation of the Constitution. People have the right to say, but we don't like this law, and that's how they decide at the referendum. Will this invalidate the Constitutional Court’s decision? Please, of course, it will not still apply, it will still oblige the government and this national assembly to prepare a better marriage. And when you talk about it, if you do, then yes, for one year, you won't be able to discuss or decide the same thing under the law. If we combine both laws into one and find a solution in a more appropriate way, then it is certainly not the same question - it is a similar question, but not the same issue, and in particular the entire decision of the Constitutional Court, but not one of its sections. The former Constitutional Judge Jerovšek said that a referendum could be held on any law adopted in the National Assembly, particularly if, for example, it spoke of a so-called technical law which did not recognise any rights. And he goes on to say that if there was a question against human rights, then it would not be a technical law. Again, one more argument. The constitutional provision refers to rights and not to technical law. Furthermore, the title of the law itself states that it is for the enforcement of the 8th point of the decision, i.e. the enforcement of the constitutional decision. The content of the constitutional decision, once again for the tenth time, will not be adopted at the referendum and will remain as it is. Of course, we also say all the time, the issue of deleted should be settled in one marriage. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group does not oppose the constitutional decision, but opposes the way it is implemented. The fact is, these people were given the opportunity to regulate their status, and they did not want to do so. And some, because of certain difficult circumstances, could not resolve some of them, perhaps even speculated, we understand all of this. And we did not object to them being granted permanent residence status, citizenship status and so on. We didn't even get into it. Have we ever asked a question? Have we ever troubled such behaviour of the Slovenian authorities? No, no, no. We have understood that things are slowly normalized, after a rough period, as they are in another area and that, of course, not all issues can be settled overnight. That is why we have also always felt that it is necessary to draw up criteria on the basis of which we would assess each case individually. We have also proposed that our amendment has not been adopted as we know it. Well, that's just because of the sense of power you have, the arrogance that you don't go into what we're proposing. We stress all the time that the National Assembly should adopt appropriate legislation. Separate foreigners entitled to return permanent residence from those who acted against the State. If we insist on such an arrangement as proposed by the law passed in Parliament, we can say that such conduct is not in accordance with those provisions of the Constitution relating to equality before the law, namely, we can say or talk about inequality in several ways. One is the inequality of those who were in difficult situations at that time only managed to regulate their status according to the legislation in force at that time. The claims of some that it is not the inaction of those people who have not settled their status, but that this is due to inadequate legislation at the time - please. That's what Mrs. Krebs said on the board yesterday. This is completely pointless. It doesn't have any real basis. How is it that some have settled their status, and these have been enormous? How's that? Why have some settled their status and others not? Answer that. Was this legislation not inadequate for those who had settled their status? She must have been. It must have been awkward to do a whole bunch of business in this regard. But what do we want? That was the rule. And he wasn't cruel. At least not at first. Another inequality is the inequality of those who are not covered by this law and whose status will be subsequently regulated. It is difficult to speak of respect for the Constitution if this issue is not to be settled uniformly in law, but is trying to resolve the status of some immediately, some of these "deleted" will wait. So you're also making a difference with this law between those you call "exterminated". One of them's gonna be right away. The other one's gonna be able to wait. Yeah, what's the difference? The third inequality concerns Slovenian citizens who have been waiting for the execution of constitutional court decisions for years. In these cases, is it not a matter of unconstitutional action and non-compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court? About the damages. Let me say again, we have not raised this issue until we have seen in the media a lot of vehement and arrogant statements from some so-called 'blotted-out' about damages, until the media has started to write a lot about the fact that there is actually a risk of great compensation from this title. Then we have deepened into this issue, and we have seen that this can indeed be an object that will burden the budget in the future. In these days, Roma have also been organized, as you know. And they themselves speak of having some rights from this title. I'm not capable of judging this, but I'm just pointing out the phenomenon that we're witnessing to him. Because of our indiscretion in this National Assembly and our arrogance, we are expanding the space of conflict. But it's not us. We are for those who have been wronged to receive their own satisfaction and for compensation, including compensation, if necessary. But not just for a long time and for anyone who thinks of it. And then he smiles at us from the TV screens, and a while ago, he's been watching us through the rifle pipe. That's not how it works. We don't accept that. Let it sound so hard or cruel or what I've heard for a day. If only you'd heed our amendment, which was nothing special. We have only proposed that we approach this issue in the sense that it cannot be done in a flat-rate manner, but that it should be determined, in individual treatment, whether or not it is there. Nothing else. If you said no in the administration, what would that mean? For that period, this person, who today has citizenship, who today has the status of a permanent alien, has nothing to change for them. Only in some period of his life will there be some deficiency as to the status quo. So that's all we suggested, and that was too much for you. It's hard for a man to understand why you didn't accept this amendment. Since this strong rigour in the reading of the decision, when on the other hand you write down in a document that the Constitutional Court has even referred to the direct application of the Constitutional Decision, then you have sought the practice of the Constitutional Court and, of course, with the help of nine lawyers, explain that it is better if the law is the basis. Of course, you said that the Constitutional Court probably made a mistake, but I'm not getting into it. Only you have made a departure from practice, from the constitutional decision when you drafted the law. But you weren't ready to make another very small step back in order to be treated individually. Once again, if our amendment were adopted, there would be no such problems, the law would be adopted, the administration would have an accurate picture of what to do. Going in line if there are elements, evidence that someone at the time participated in the Yugoslav army that killed there in Bosnia and I don't know where else in Croatia, and then at the end of the week returned to Slovenia - that's probably not going to get anything back. Let him be glad he has what he has. But nothing would have happened to him. This man wouldn't be hurt today. He could continue to live peacefully, there would be no signature gathering, there would be no unpleasant situations now experienced by the people who have acquired this nationality. Just because you don't want to listen to what we're saying. They'd only listen to us so much, and there wouldn't be any problems today. And now we have to go to the referendum with this thing. And of course, in order for you to block this option, you have decided to have a constitutional judgment because you expect the Constitutional Court to decide as you think. Therefore, there are reasons against the constitutional court's judgment, in our view, and there are many. The Law on Referendum and Human Initiative in Article 16 provides that if the Council of State considers that the content of the request for a referendum is contrary to the Constitution. Whether the postponement of the adoption or the enforcement of the law or the rejection of the law could result in unconstitutional consequences - the Constitutional Court decides. The rejection of the law at the referendum would not have had an anti-constitutional effect, as the Constitutional Court's decision would still be binding - in addition, it is likely that the failure to implement the other decisions of the Constitutional Court has also resulted in certain consequences and that there is no talk in this national assembly. Does not the government, the President of the National Assembly, the ruling coalition in these other cases, which I keep mentioning, work unconstitutionally when allowing delays in the enforcement of decisions by the Constitutional Court to last and last? Here again we can talk about the inequality of one citizen of the Republic of Slovenia against the other citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The referendum gives the government a chance and an opportunity to reconsider its decision to issue, without any verification, a permanent residence decision to those who acted against the State, and to those who then respected the laws of the Republic of Slovenia and settled their status in a timely manner. Proponents of the law claim that it is those people who have already proven to have been in Slovenia continuously, but we can find out from the statements of these people, which we have even seen on TV, that they have lived in Croatia and elsewhere. However, no one checked for actual stay in the Republic of Slovenia. Last but not least, what could be unconstitutional if the people in the referendum annulled the law that the President of the Constitutional Court calls unnecessary. So there would be no harm. We are hardly talking about the unconstitutionality of the referendum, something that the Constitutional Court has already said is unnecessary and has not committed itself to it by a constitutional decision. The proposal for a decision, which we will vote today to decide on the content of the requests by the Constitutional Court, is actually trying to delay the referendum procedure and to give the public the impression that the content of the constitutional provision will be assessed at the referendum. All those who keep repeating that this law will assess the content of the constitutional provision, you are misleading the Slovenian public. Yesterday, some even spoke of the removal of the constitutional decision from the referendum, which is, of course, even more nonsense, indicating a complete ignorance of the rule of law of this country. And even though the Members speak or the Members speak, it is even more sad. By making a referendum decision, people could say how they feel about the matter. If it wasn't for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u59	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u60	confirmations at the referendum would immediately, and not only after one year, draft a new law, a single law and comprehensively settle this issue. [[...]] If someone has been wronged, it is the duty of the State to correct it. Your apparent opposition to the referendum stems from your fear of the people and their will. Some referendums in the near past have shown that we could save a lot of money if we listened to someone else in the legislative process rather than to ourselves. It is clear, therefore, that today there will be a need to vote on the decision to be taken by the Constitutional Court. We have always respected the decisions of the Constitutional Court. We did not do the same as the Liberal Democracy, the United List and the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS, for example, for the majority electoral system. We did not stand up in this Chamber and say that we would not respect the Constitutional Court's decision regarding the majority electoral system, as did the leader of the Liberal Democracy Group, Mr Anderlič. We will not do as a group of political parties, the United List, the Slovenian People's Party, the Liberal Democracy and someone else in 2000 three months before the elections when you bypassed the Constitutional Court's decision. It was all legal, all ethical, moral and all in a row. In this Chamber, for the last time, during the debate on electoral law, we listened to a representative of the People's Party, who said that one year before the elections was an inappropriate change in electoral law. We will not do the same as Mr Potrč, who, for the last time in this debate on electoral legislation, said that there is no need to change electoral legislation since it is consistent with the Constitution. However, it is clear that the constitutional law is moving towards a change in the electoral law. We will respect any decision of the Constitutional Court. We would be happy if this decision today did not receive support. We're going to try to convince you about this, because this would open the way for people to make decisions about things. In short, democracy in Slovenia is also on the test in this process, which is ahead of us today. Whether we let people decide on the law and allow the possibility of us forming a better marriage, or whether it will be as it has been many times before - the ruling majority will accept what they think, and no one cares. We will always fight against such a way of political action, against such a political culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u61	Mr Lavrinc, Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee, will now present the position of this Committee. I will then give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister of the Interior, the representatives of the groups of Members and the colleagues and colleagues. First, my friend Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! I am a little disappointed at this moment as chairman of the committee that my Vice-President of the National Assembly does not know the rules of procedure regarding the adoption of the agenda and similar matters. As president of the working body, I do the same thing all the time. This is to propose a reference and also to apply it, so I will sign it and write it down when we will sow, where we will sow and what we will sow. Then, of course, when we meet at this meeting, I will first discuss the agenda and then give my word to all those who want to fix anything. This also happened yesterday, but a formal proposal to put to the vote a different point of the agenda, I didn't get it, and, of course, I thought that the agenda was set and we are doing the same thing here, today someone could get up and say that with the agenda that we have before us, it does not agree, but this kind of debate did not have to be heard. So, today, I signed twenty minutes to two o'clock, and at two o'clock, a meeting of the National Assembly began, a report of the Committee. I was thinking first of all that I wouldn't even sign it because my notions are unbalanced, it goes to the opposition. If someone has managed to read it more seriously, then you will see why. So, of course, the report contains what was going on on the committee, who was all involved in these discussions, and very carefully presents further clarifications by the representatives of the initiative, i.e. requests for a referendum, then a little bit of what the government representative said, then writes a little bit about what the representative of the legislative and legal service said, and, of course, on the third page, you find the text that most of the members of the committee agreed on the proposal to decide and so on. Then the whole paragraph follows again, 'noted in particular' and is literally copied from what the proponents give. Almost nothing or not - there is no word that the Chairman of the Max Lavrinc Internal Policy Committee, standing before you, proposed, because we had on the one hand the opinion of the legislative and legal service and on the other hand the opinion of the Government that there might be such a referendum, so that it might have unconstitutional consequences, I have suggested that we should first ask the Constitutional Court about this; what is actually possible under the referendum and human initiative law. I even accept the criticism of my colleague Brejc that the decision he made was hard, awkward, the slave was even in some way gnawed with itself, and on one hand you ask someone, and then you tell him how to decide. And so today there has been a correction, but the following is to say that people who have struggled around these matters have had very little time available and, of course, that is why, now I am speaking as the author of the proposed decision, I cannot agree to remain in the air a lie - so this is a pure lie to come to know what delay in resolving this issue. Indeed, we all know that only 15 days of time is available to the Constitutional Court to decide on this proposal. This is, in short, the report, and of course the report then has - thank God, otherwise it would be unrealistic - an explanation which, in my opinion, has been carefully prepared and justifies the decision that has been given to you in the debate, and I hope, even in reception, because I have said several times that it is much better to come up with this answer. Can you imagine holding a referendum on something and spending $600 million on something that's actually unacceptable? I think it would be unacceptable for all of us to act together, so of course I also expect the opposition to support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u63	Thank you, Chairman of the Lavrinc Committee. The Minister of the Interior, Dr Rado Bohinc, would like a word in order to present the Government's position and then the views of the members of the groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u64	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr President! We have discussed and explained the regulation of today's renegotiated law several times, so allow me to focus on just two issues. First, I would like to comment briefly on some of the arguments made by the applicants for the referendum, and then briefly take some of the views of the Government, particularly from a constitutional point of view. The motions for a referendum in explanation first argue that the law under consideration today is discriminatory, because it covers only the citizens of the former SFRJ and does not take into account the possibility that, on the basis of the same regulation, they may have been transferred from the register of permanent residents to another register, including those who are citizens today, for example, of the Member States of the European Union. This claim is not true. Since 26.2.1992, only nationals of the Member States of the European Union and other countries of the Council have been automatically transferred to the register of permanent aliens under Article 82(3) of the Law on Foreigners, not specifically [[for them, there was another arrangement.]] nationals of the successor countries of the SFRY. It is precisely because the law on foreigners for these citizens of the successor countries of the former SFRJ did not provide for equal treatment compared to the other foreigners, the Constitutional Court in 1999 ruled that Article 81 of the Aliens Act is contrary to the Constitution. As a result, as is known, the so-called ZUS DDD, the law on foreign refugees, as we have named it, was passed at the end of July this year. It is true, therefore, that the current Foreigners Act of 1991 was discriminatory, not to European Union citizens, but to the citizens of the successor states of the SFRY - it did not treat them the same as other foreigners. Today, however, the law in question does not discriminate against foreigners coming from countries of the European Union or other countries of the world. Those who later renounce the nationality of the successor State and acquire the nationality of a Member State of the European Union or another State shall also be treated under this law, but only for a period of time until the citizens of the successor State. So much for that first statement. The law is also discriminatory after the argument of the referendum requirement because it does not provide for a mandatory determination of the actual residence or actual life of beneficiaries in the Republic of Slovenia. We have also explained this issue many times. Let me repeat, that is not true either. The law implementing the 8th point of the Constitutional Court’s decision, to repeat, covers only those foreigners for whom it has already been in the final proceedings within the administrative procedure for granting a permanent residence permit, found to actually live in the Republic of Slovenia. Article 1 of the DD ZUS stipulated in the work relating to permanent residents that they should actually live in the Republic of Slovenia at least from plebiscite or 25.6.1991 onwards. This fact has been specifically identified in each administrative procedure. The same applies to those who obtained a residence permit under the 1991 Foreigners Act and also in 1999. For these, their residence in the Republic of Slovenia was also checked in the process. The condition for obtaining a permanent residence permit was the prior acquisition of a temporary residence permit. Under Article 15 of the Aliens Act, the alien was granted a temporary residence permit only for a year, which meant that he had to submit an extension application before the expiry of the authorisation to the competent authority. Of course, it had to meet other conditions: the valid travel document issued by the competent authority in his country of nationality; it had to have a legitimate reason to stay, such as work permits; it had to have livelihoods; it had to have a secure dwelling and so on. It is incorrect, Your Honor, to claim that the law is not selective. On the contrary: the law is selective as it excludes from the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision those who obtained a permanent residence permit on the basis of reliefs, namely as regards the prescribed length of residence in the Republic of Slovenia. All those who have been granted permission with relief are covered by another law. This is also one of the reasons why we decided to marry each other, a comprehensive marriage. The reliefs, as you know, were justified by close family members of Slovenian citizens or foreigners, as well as by foreigners who obtained a permanent residence permit because of the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. If you allow me, once again, I will claim with all responsibility that the law does not include any foreigner who has not already obtained a residence permit under conditions that included a verified actual life from plebiscite onward. A different position is possible only if there is complete mistrust in the functioning of the administrative authorities at that time, and for which we have no basis in the Ministry of the Interior. In explanation of the request for a referendum, the applicants further state that, in view of the regulation of the past which dealt with the issue of permanent residence, the law is different from that of permanent residence. In this regard, I would like to clarify that the subject of the decision under this Act is not a finding of permanent residence, but a finding of permanent residence, that is, a finding of a period of time from 25.02.1992 to obtaining a residence permit. This is exactly what the 8th paragraph of the Constitutional Court’s ruling states. Thus, the law preserves the concept of permanent residence as a fact of possible abuse of the application of a permanent residence at the address where a person has never actually lived, the law establishes the legal basis for carrying out a special procedure under the law on the application of permanent residence, the purpose of which is to determine the actual residence at the specific address. And something else about the so-called multiple financial implications discussed. The explanation of the referendum requirement, as opposed to the many exaggerations of this type, does not mention compensation at all. Quite loosely and by the way, but without any effort to argue, it is stated that financial consequences could arise. I consider this to be an important progress towards a proper presentation of the law, which, as we have already explained many times, does not really regulate any possible damage, compensation claims or even the State's liability for compensation. Therefore, the State's potential liability for compensation is clearly not one of the reasons for the referendum request. This is also in line with the Government's repeatedly explained view in this regard. However, let me repeat: the law does not provide any new basis for financial consequences other than those related to the implementation of the necessary procedures, which is also explained in particular in the explanation. And something else about a matter of one or more laws. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a position to regulate the matter resulting from a decision of the Constitutional Court in two laws, as is known. The regulation of any matter in two or more laws is neither prohibited nor commanded nor excluded by law and constitutional principles. This is a case-by-case assessment, and the Government has assessed that it is precisely for the implementation of point 8 of the sentence that it is essential to ensure the legal basis for the speedy application of the decision. Of course only for persons who cannot be questioned that they actually live in the Republic of Slovenia at least since 25.02.1992, since they have already proved this in the proceedings before the Slovenian administrative authorities. However, since the government assumed that the regulation of the remaining matter, which had also been imposed by the Constitutional Court, would take longer, the Government also proposed the adoption of another more comprehensive law, which, as you know, was also subject to a public presentation of opinions in the National Assembly in January. Therefore, the conviction of the motioner of the referendum that a single law should be regulated with the matter of deleted, of course, cannot be the reason for the referendum. In particular, where the demand for selectivity is precisely a key reason for two laws. The law, which is the subject of the referendum requirements today, is intended to regulate the situation of those who have already settled their permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. However, a comprehensive law will set criteria for the required and selective approach, as required by the proposers. The opposition to the law under consideration today is therefore more than necessary against a selective approach, which, given the diversity of the population in which the situation is being regulated. And if you'll allow me something else about the constitutional aspects of the request for a referendum where I'm summarizing the government's opinion on these issues. The law implementing the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision only regulates, as has been said several times, the way in which the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision is implemented. Therefore, the decision on the law at the referendum would also constitute, after its content, a decision on the decision itself of the Constitutional Court - at least indirectly interpreted. This would violate the constitutional principles, such as the democracy set out in Article 1 of the Constitution, both the rule of law referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution and the principle of the division of power provided for in Article 3 of the Constitution, since the referendum would decide on the mother who is within the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. The decision on the law at the referendum would mean that constitutional and judicial violations of human rights are the subject of the referendum. It assesses the violation of human rights in a specific case where it has already adopted its judgment by the Constitutional Court, however, constitutionally does not allow for the content of a referendum decision. The Ministry of the Interior is part of the executive branch of the Authority, as is known. In accordance with the principle of the division of power and the principle of legality, the Ministry of the Interior may enforce paragraph 8 of the Constitutional Court decision only on the basis of law. This lays down the principle of the legality of the functioning of the State Administration as set out in Article 153(4) of the Constitution. According to legal experts, contrary to that provision of the Constitution, Article 153, paragraph 4, the Ministry of the Interior would have issued administrative decisions on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. The same position was taken in its opinion of 25.9.2003 following the submission of the law. Human rights are not and cannot be the subject of referendum decisions, according to theory, recommendations from the Council of Europe and also in our constitutional and legal practice. This would be a violation of one of the fundamental principles of the Constitution, which is the principles of the rule of law referred to in Article 2. Why? Because possible decisions would be taken at the referendum to ensure that the law is not adopted, which is, of course, one of the possible decisions, would constitute an infringement of human rights and is therefore contrary to the Constitution. The postponement of the law itself would also lead to unconstitutional consequences as it would prevent the exercise of human rights in which the Constitutional Court ruled in its decision. If the law in the referendum had not been confirmed, which is, of course, one of two options, such a result could also be understood by the fact that citizens are against the content of the law and consequently against the content of the Constitutional Court’s decision, the National Assembly should not adopt a law governing this matter for one year, as the fourth paragraph of Article 25 of the Law on Referendum and People’s Initiative. Your Honor! On the basis of what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has said, it assesses that, in the case of this referendum requirement, both the reasons set out in Article 16 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, both the reasons for the Constitutional Court’s assessment of such a proposal, namely the unconstitutionality of the requirement itself and the unconstitutionality of the consequences. Therefore, we also propose to the National Assembly that the Constitutional Court decide on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We can now hear the views of the groups of Members. That is how we have them in kind - the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, then the Youth Party, the Slovenian National Party, the Slovenian People's Party, the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia and New Slovenia, and the United List and DeSUS. Mr Cukjat will first present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, followed by his colleague Štemberger. Let's go in one order. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Respectable present. In order to understand the problem of the deleted law, and we are probably all in agreement, we must first carefully read the Constitutional Court's decision, not only eight points of the decision, but also a broad explanation. I should like to mention only three findings based on the reasons given by the Constitutional Court. Firstly, I quote paragraph 27: "The Constitutional Court does not rule out the possibility that some have left the Republic of Slovenia also because of the fear of a declaration of measures of compulsory removal. Some have tried to resolve their unregulated legal situation by going abroad for a certain time, some have returned after a certain period of time and are now living again in the Republic of Slovenia." Thus, the Constitutional Court acknowledges that some of the so-called deleted have indeed left Slovenia. In doing so, the Constitutional Court should add that many have left Slovenia voluntarily, voluntarily, and permanently, without informing the Home Office. After several years, they changed their minds and returned to Slovenia. Secondly, I quote the 20th paragraph of the reasoning of the Constitutional Court. He says: "That those citizens could prove their permanent residence even in return, the Constitutional Court ordered the Ministry of the Interior to issue, on an official basis, supplementary decisions establishing permanent residence from 26.2.1992. And thirdly, I quote from paragraph 23, so says the Constitutional Court in its explanation "nationals of other republics who, because of the irregular legal situation, could not exercise certain rights, will be able to assert these rights by establishing a permanent residence in return" at the end of the quote. It is not our solicitation, therefore, but it is based on the reasoning of the Constitutional Court that it is the exercise of rights to return, i.e. compensation claims, the possibility of compensation claims on the basis of a continuous stay, which will be demonstrated by a decision of the Ministry of the Interior. Therefore, it is so important that this decision is based on a verification of the actual stay in Slovenia. The minister says the law doesn't mention compensation. Of course not. He doesn't have to. Indemnities will appear themselves, claims for compensation will follow as the constitutional court's reasoning tells us. The law on deleted persons says so, I will quote again, as you all know, "a stranger who has obtained a permanent residence permit under the law on aliens issues a decision by the competent authority to establish his permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia since 26.2.1992 as a supplement to the already issued residence permit". The decision therefore states, in return, that the foreigner has been resident in the Republic of Slovenia all the time. Therefore, the decision under this law, which is disputed, shall be issued whether or not the alien has applied for such a decision. Whether he's interested in her or not. And whether he actually stayed in Slovenia or not at that time. The Minister says that the decision on permanent residence was not based or that it was issued after a thorough verification of the real stay back. If it was issued after a thorough check, then I wonder why the Constitutional Court mentions among these beneficiaries also those not present in Slovenia. If they've acquired permanent residence, then I wonder if it's the same as staying ten years. The Minister well knows how the residence permit was granted, that no permanent residence was required from 1992 onwards, that three years of temporary stay was sufficient. In cases where the interest of the Republic of Slovenia to establish a permanent residence permit was not necessary, there was no need for a single day of temporary stay - a permanent residence decision was issued immediately. Until 1997, that was the case. So the law is flawed because it is non-selective, so it does not check the actual situation because it is discriminatory [[There's been a lot of talk about that.]] and because it does not address the issue of compensation, which could and would also be necessary. The President of the Constitutional Court, Mrs Lukič, herself said that the legislator can arrange for compensation for systematic violations of human rights in a specific law if this is justified by public interest. Yes, of course, from the very beginning the government has been saying that this is a technical law and that the President of the Constitutional Court has made it clear that this is a law that is not necessary. It follows that the rejection of such a law at the referendum would not be an act against the Constitution, certainly not. So why are we against the Law of the Deleted? Because, for the first time, it has a retroactive effect, which is contrary to Article 155 of the Constitution. Secondly, since the goods resulting from permanent residence also enable those who are not entitled to them. Thirdly, because it does not resolve other points of the Constitutional Court decision and does not regulate the status of those foreigners whose status is to be resolved by another system law. And for the fourth time, because it does not regulate the damages and reparations that will arise after the adoption of the law. Why are we against preventing the referendum? Since the referendum issue is without prejudice to the content of the constitutional provision, even if the referendum succeeds, the Constitutional Court decision will still apply. The possible rejection of the law would not result in an anti-constitutional effect, but it is only a condition that the Constitutional Court, or that it would make sense to reject the referendum initiative. We do not therefore see any need for a constitutional court to decide on the referendum issue. Moreover, the referendum initiative is very correct and is absolutely unconstitutional, it is a legitimate, democratic initiative and it would sound very condescending if it was shown to be impatient with foreigners. Gentlemen, at the time of independence, Slovenia offered Slovenian citizenship and all the rights arising therefrom to all foreigners who were then registered in Slovenia. Of the 200,000 foreigners, over 170,000 accepted Slovenian citizenship. During the bloody Balkan war, 100 000 refugees were accepted by broad-minded Slovenia, and after the war it has granted permanent residence to all returnees. Between 1991 and 1999, 25,000 foreigners moved in. Only from Bosnia 10,000. And that's right. I am glad that Slovenia is an open, democratic country. Therefore, it is not fair to compare this to Hitler’s Nazism. It is not right for Slovenian voters to attribute the inability of sober and democratic judgment. Therefore, it is also not appropriate for Slovenian voters to prevent referendum decisions. Let us not forget that the Slovenians have decided on many more important matters at the referendum. And they always made the right choice. I hope to say that Slovenian voters in the referendums judge more fairly and more nationally than many Members in this national assembly. It all shows that Slovenian citizens also need the guardian of the rights guaranteed by the Constitution in Article 3, which states that the people have power in Slovenia. Citizens and citizens execute it directly, and this is, with a referendum. Will the Slovenians really need the guardian of our constitutional right to referendum?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u67	Thank you very much, mate Tucky. My friend Stemberger. Please have the floor to present the position of the Youth Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Honorable National Assembly! The basic source of democracy is respect for the rule of law and human rights. All the daily policy moves are going to an increasingly dangerous area, which unfortunately is becoming a major source of such and different intolerance. In the Party of Young Slovenia, in three years of parliamentary action, we strictly and consistently respected the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Unlike most of the other parties in the Slovenian Parliament, Members of the Party of Young Slovenia have never voted against any decision of the Constitutional Court, since this would involve direct political involvement in the judiciary, which is the beginning of the end of the democratic regime of our country. The SMS has a clear position on the Constitutional Court’s decision to respect it. However, the Government's task is to draw up such a law, which, on the one hand, follows the Constitutional Court's decision, and on the other hand does not promote intolerance among the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, the proposal we are discussing today has not met both conditions. Since even after the rejection of the veto of the State Council, members of opposition parties, in cooperation with individuals from government parties, expressed concerns about the appropriateness of the law, that it did not follow the Constitutional Court's decision and that it did not ensure individual treatment of the beneficiaries of the back-up status regime, we also wished to end the populist use of the topic deleted as soon as possible without the signing of 400,000 citizens in this story. In this way, the Constitutional Court will probably be given the opportunity to conclude the story that it actually started. Furthermore, we believe that, in addition to respecting the rule of law, by adopting an appropriate law, it is also necessary to seek and clearly demonstrate and sanction those who, by their actions or omissions, have allowed the situation to occur and to be resolved only now. From those to whom the law applies, we expect a little more cooperation than has been shown so far, which is likely to be possible to address the issue of compensation that has already been highlighted. We believe that the Constitutional Court will engage at least as much in these matters as it has in the past. In the Parliamentary Group of the parties of young Slovenia, we will not support any decisions which would prejudge the decision of the Constitutional Court or suggest a decision to the highest body of the judiciary. The proposal for a decision adopted by the Committee on Internal Policy is mildly unusual and constitutes a school case of interference of the legislative branch with the judiciary. We strongly oppose this in the Young Slovenia Party. The Constitutional Court shall have the right to rule on its own motion without any pressure from the national assembly. Therefore, in the Parliamentary Group of the parties to young Slovenia we propose a decision which does not affect the decision of the Constitutional Court in any way: The National Assembly, in accordance with Article 16 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, requires the Constitutional Court to decide whether to have a subsequent legislative referendum on the law implementing the 8th paragraph of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia against the constitutional consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by colleague Jelinčič. You have the floor, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It appears that the United List of Social Democrats, as well as the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, decided to prove to us that in 1991 it was not an independent war, but a coup. It is said that no one has predicted the state of war, no one has even predicted the state of emergency, so those of us who have fought for independence and independence have actually attacked legitimate representatives of the authorities of one country, that is to say an army that has legitimately defended the integrity of the state. I therefore expect that in the near future a decision will be made by the Constitutional Court, the so-called Slovenian Constitutional Court, which will probably decide, at the request of the United List of Social Democrats, that all veterans of the wars for the Republic of Slovenia should be deprived of their civil rights. The United List of Social Democrats will certainly provide the appropriate justification and will certainly vote in favour of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Or perhaps the United List of Social Democrats, assisted by the Liberal Democrats, will add to the Constitutional Court, in addition to the current judges, guilty Krivica, linguist Todorovic and pensioner Aksentijevic. This will certainly be accepted [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u71	It is not possible to make statements that would be accepted as offensive. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u72	I think, Mr President, that this is going to happen, I'm just saying what will happen in the future, maybe you won't be president again, or, I don't know, maybe some other president, I don't know. Well, it is no wonder, after all, that Mr Bohinc, a member of the United List of Social Democrats, was already at the very beginning against the independence of the Republic of Slovenia and would probably continue to care for those who were Slovenians who decided to be Slovenian citizens, and for those whom we will now give them, I do not know everything, as a police minister, that the police will continue to do as they do now, to harass the peaceful and destitute citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, that the judiciary will continue, as it is now, to close small and large that the Slovenian Taxation, as it is now, will continue to oppress the honest and forgive the cheaters and speculators, who will, at the same time, become relevant parties, probably members of the United List of Social Democrats and Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. And certainly Keber will continue, as he does now, to limit the little joy that remains for our citizens. The fact is, gentlemen, you want to offer them everything today, and you're going to give them everything, in fact, after most of the sloths, locusts and speculators. Among them are people who fought on the fronts of the former Yugoslavia and killed people. There are even people who fought in Slovenia against Slovenian soldiers. It seems, however, that we will be able to expect that decision of the Constitutional Court, which I announced at the outset, and it may be necessary to inform the Slovenian people, give yourselves, arm yourselves, as it all appears, another so-called coup will be when they wish to take you out of this world. And according to the Charter of the United Nations and the Charter of Human Rights of the United Nations, everyone has the right to defend his integrity and his life. Therefore, Slovenian citizens, honest citizens, those who have done something for this country, and also those who have decided to become Slovenian citizens, will have to be invited from the beginning to prepare themselves for the possible consequences of the strange decisions of the so-called Slovenian Constitutional Court. This will certainly happen under the command of the United List of Social Democrats and with the assistance of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Many things have already happened, let us take the example of these so-called deleted ones lying in front of a national assembly in the middle of the road and, of course, with the assistance of the police, which was guarded and led by the United List of Social Democrats. In Maribor, when they crossed the road as a sign of protest, they attributed time limits to people for obstruction of traffic. Great, you can see here which citizens are worth something and which citizens are worthy and which citizens are not. That is to say, those who obey the laws are repulsive citizens, those who spit on the laws that say that the Slovenian state is uncivilized, uncivilized, malnourished, and I don't know what else, those who are worthy of honor and those who say literally: "Doggie if you bring me a passport, Slovenian, I will think about having it," those who have praised us, are probably already in position in certain political parties. Even in Prague, when people fought for their rights to settle something, Slovenian police under the leadership of the United List of Social Democrats, of course, threatened them with term sentences and prison sentences because they wanted to settle certain matters and certain things. With us, illegals in Ljubljana can do what they want and have the support of the coalition's two most powerful parties: the United List of Social Democrats and Liberal Democracy. In fact, in the Slovenian National Party, we ask whether it is not possible that Dr Bohinc, a police minister, a member of the United List, succeeded in what he stood for in 1991, when he founded the Union for Yugoslavia, when we conquered ourselves, when various gentlemen, like Bohinc and Rastko Močnik, head of the Peace Institute now inherited by Mrs. Vlasta Jalušič from Liberal Democracy, when these people were against self-reliance, against our independence and against our way into a better world, even against the path you have so gladly voted today, against the path to Europe. Well, sometimes it's hard to understand, you'd say you have vaccinated personalities, sometimes two parts, sometimes four, sometimes even more. Speaking of deleted, there were already some legal experts who said there was no erasure and explained the matter. No, you use, some use this term as a simple and definitive legal term, perhaps it would make sense to introduce another new term, deleted, perhaps very sense, and we are thinking in the Slovenian National Party to introduce it with some kind of delivery to some law. And we're talking about democracy! If some may not have understood the previous diversity of words, then I would say that there is no democracy in us, but there is "democracy". Those who know the Greek language know that "demos" is a people and that "deimos" is fear. And I have a feeling that we have a "democracy," so to speak, awe. Soon, this fear will likely take on some other language forms, and then language bravaurs will no longer be able to do so, or we will have to start learning something else. There's nothing to worry about that 95% of the people against you, gentlemen. Nothing, you don't care. You feel so strong that you don't care. Think about what we care about, what they can do to us. Unfortunately, Slovenian voters are largely so stupid that they give you votes [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u73	Mr. Jelinčič, please, I said I won't let you label people. We're all human, don't forget that. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u74	But I can be equal, Mr. President, whether I can't be equal and you're already taking equality from me here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u75	I'm asking for peace in the hall! That's the first thing. You have your word and everyone listens to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u76	Nevertheless, I will repeat that some Slovenian voters are extremely stupid because they give these people votes. Because these people cut off what they're sitting on. And when it comes to paying huge sums of money, voters will be aware, but too late, regretting that they will have to pay off huge amounts of money to each member of their family. And there will be no more money for school supplies, no more money for lunch at school, no more money for new shoes, but money from some who have speculated, cheated and spent many years illegally in the Republic of Slovenia. That they weren't doing so well, they show up in their status today - a lot of people are driving great cars. There aren't any infernos among them either. That's right. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u77	Comrade Jelinčič, if you will mark people again, I will give you a warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u78	Mr President, I ask you to stop such escapades. I want to say what people think! And I was elected from among the people of the National Assembly, so please allow me to say what at least 5% of Slovenian voters feel the same way. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now, more specifically, this law on the enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Slovenia. Article 2 - because I will not go into any nonsense, but in the second paragraph of Article 2 to the end it reads: "The competent authority shall issue a decision on the determination of its permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia from 26.2.1992 or from the date of deletion to the date of obtaining a permanent residence permit as a supplement to the issued residence permit." What kind of deletion, please? And what a permanent stay if he wasn't here! Take the example of a lady we saw in the media saying that she was in treatment somewhere in Serbia at the time she was not here. After a telephone conversation with a Serbian citizen of Slovenia, a Serbian national, I learned that this lady was wearing a Chetnik uniform at the time. She'll get proof that she wasn't down there at the time, but that she was here, that she was always in Slovenia, that she had a good time, that she even paid taxes, that she was serving, they'll probably also write that she was employed in some official institution and something like that. Very strange and very, very humiliating for all of those more than 170 thousand honest citizens, currents, those people who have taken the Republic of Slovenia for their country as foreign nationals. This is mostly a big slap for them. A great slap, for this country of Slovenia will reward them by paying for those who speculated. As far as speculation is concerned - Mr President, that you will not interrupt me - you can look at the public statements made by some gentlemen who today claim that Slovenia is actually a strange country. Let's go to Article 3. At the outset, it reads: "No matter what the rules on registration of residence are, the competent authority shall, on an official basis, enter a foreigner, etc. "in the register of the permanent population. In short, regardless of the rules. Some, regardless of any regulations, will be included in those charters in which we are all included and will have the same rights and all. No matter what the rules are. Then why do we have to follow the rules? And if they look at Slovenians and Slovenes and citizens of Slovenia and citizens, let them remember Article 3 of the Law on the Enforcement of the 8th Point of the Constitutional Court Decision of the Republic of Slovenia gives you the right not to respect the rules, because it will already happen that someone will remember and say, "No matter what regulations concerning tax matters, your case will be erased or something like that." And then we listen to the Minister for Police, a member of the United List of Social Democrats, Dr. Rad Bohinca, who talks about some rights, about some equality, and I don't know what else. Such equality is an inequality that will need to be corrected in Europe. And speaking of Europe, how you lied to the entire Slovenian public when you said that Europe asked us not to know everything. It's just a lie. Europe said: "This is your internal matter, arrange it in accordance with your rules and requirements and thinking." They said the same thing to Latvia. Because if Latvia were to work like this, then it would be gone. No, I don't know what. I know it's nice to have 18,000 or more new voters fill you with those kinds of current, former voters who have come to their senses and turned their backs on you. And yet, according to the statements of the former Constitutional Judge without a judicial examination, this 18,000 is even more. Twenty-five thousand, even thirty-two thousand. I don't know if you already have any special ways to avoid the Schengen border and bring in any new ones you've forgotten before or anything like that. However, you do not care what happens to the Slovenian minority, both in Austria and Hungary, in Italy, in Croatia. You don't care. You don't care. And if we go to the second paragraph of Article 3, where it reads: "...if for a certain period the competent authority of permanent residence referred to in the data referred to in the preceding paragraph cannot determine, it shall send the execution of the file for a time for which the address is not known to the administrative unit carrying out the procedure for determining the actual permanent residence". So that's why we go to court? Dear citizens and citizens, there is no need to go to court. Please refer to the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Law on the enforcement of the 8th paragraph of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, as it accurately states here that some do not need to comply with the legal provisions. And if to some, we are supposed to be equal, that is to say, dear citizens and citizens, use this. I wonder why we should only then issue tax returns on income, but when we can still make an excuse for this, and say, "Let the administrative unit, by official duty, carry out a process of determining actual income." And in this case, no one else has the right to write or to send any person to a judge for offences or to punish him in any other way. For in this case, we are once again equally unequal with those who for many years have not paid taxes that were illegal in the field of Slovenia and, of course, who are held by the "stango" by their former ministers, and today, Mr Rado Bohinc, a member of the United List of Social Democrats, and a police minister, holds them. Yes, Minister of the Interior, thank you, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u79	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u80	Yeah, it's true.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u81	There's no controversy!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u82	There's been a lot of mistakes for a lot of people. But here's the difference between an undergraduate and a finisher. Some people make mistakes. And gentlemen of the Liberal Democracy, your mistakes are happening. More often from day to day. And from day to day more. I hope others will soon find out. Did we get the tears? [[...]] What are you crying about, Mr. Jakich?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u83	Comrade Jelinčič, no one should bother you, but you can't argue with your colleagues from the bench. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u84	Mr President, they're so loud that I can hear them and they're bothering me with thinking.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u85	They don't have that right, and please don't do that. I broke up, too, buddy. Please! I cut them off quite a few times, too, and I said there was no dispute in the bench. Please! Please, there's room for everyone if we're patient.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President for intervention, because I was afraid that a few Members were already ready here too to delete us from this national assembly or maybe just from the civil book, because I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u87	Comrade Jakič, I will also give you a reminder if I have to remind you again, because you must not disturb the bench. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On 2.12.2003, 30 members of the National Assembly made a request to the National Assembly to call for a subsequent legislative referendum on the law implementing the 8th paragraph of the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Slovenia. The referendum question is clear and short and reads as follows: Are you in favour of implementing the law implementing the 8th paragraph of the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Slovenia, this number and that adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 25.11.2003. It is a simple question on which all citizens and citizens can be defined by simply "yes" or "no". However, gentlemen of the United Nations, who have worked very hard to help those deleted, perhaps I am sure that it is not free, and the Liberal Democracy is too dangerous and therefore they are prepared not to take account of the constitution to which they are so eloquent. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states in its 90th article on the legislative referendum in the second paragraph: The National Assembly may sign the referendum referred to in the preceding paragraph on its initiative and must call it if at least a third of the Members so request. It says here, "but I have to write it down." I don't know, maybe you're already so far into the speech brats of some so-called deleted that you don't know what the word "must" means, "must." It would be nice if you could learn something from some, at least a high school teacher or a elementary school teacher, you do not need a professor of Slovenian language. The National Assembly must call a referendum. And yet the National Assembly won't do that. The National Assembly serves some strange legal, not legal, quasi-legal escapades, I say quasi-legal for a simple reason, because in spite of everything, I believe that the law is as exact as knowledge. Of course, this does not apply to Slovenia. However, in general law, at least Roman law knew exactly what alpha is and what omega is Our gentlemen's lawyers are adapting this to the current needs, to current desires and perhaps to some current openings that they have once more, once less open in their pockets. Therefore, they produced a decision saying: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia requires that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decide that the content of the request for a subsequent legislative referendum is contrary to the Constitution." Here you can see exactly the perfidity of the ruling system, which, of course, belongs to the United List of Social Democrats, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, it is a joint work, a conglomerate, an amoeboid body, which flows its interior from one body to another and then decides, as it seems to anyone, only that it is in this decision that the National Assembly allows itself to request and prescribe to the Constitutional Court what it must do. That's great! We've never seen anything like it. That is why I am returning to that possible decision of the Constitutional Court, which I said at the outset: it is now probably clear to you and it is now quite probable to you, now you can almost be sure that such a decision will be, because if the National Assembly has already determined how the Constitutional Court must decide, anything can happen. I don't know what we should do to those who oppose the selected few here in Parliament who are going to cheat and don't know who else you're going to give a lot of money to, or what's going to happen to us who are on the side of 95% of the Slovenian population. I don't know. I hope or wish that you, from the United List of Social Democrats and from the Liberal Democracy, remove the scrotum, but, gentlemen, you know what, we give you from our own, you don't have to give away from those farmers who are barely living, you don't have to give away workers who are unemployed, you don't have to give from single women with two, three children and so on. Get out of your pockets, gentlemen! If you're so kind, if that's how you're concerned about human rights. I think it's here, too, in the National Assembly, quite a few Members who are willing to pay their own money for some buses to go to rescue human rights in Afghanistan and Iraq. I'll make my own contribution. If you're so in pain of guilt, you're only in pain of foreign guilt. You are not hurt by the injustice that is happening to the Slovenian people and the Slovenian people. You don't care. You feel strong enough here to do whatever you want. And yet, I don't know. It seems that in Slovenia you will first destroy all those who have fought for independent Slovenia, then partisans will come, then Slovenians and Slovenes will come, then those foreigners who have respected the laws and have taken over Slovenian citizenship will come to order, and then you will be able to sell out Slovenia what little is left. Thank you. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u89	I'm asking for peace in the hall. Look, buddy Jerovšek. We are in the middle of a presentation of the positions of the groups. Please, of course, I will give you my word, but allow me to warn you that we are in the middle of a statement of views and have always acted in a way that respects the same right of all Members to present the parliamentary position at this time, without the adoption of any procedural position in the meantime. Please. Now I give you my word. Just please consider this.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are in the topic which is politically most receptive and arouses the greatest interest of citizens of Slovenia and at the same time the greatest consensus of citizens after plebiscite. In fact, 95% of them have a unified opinion on how Slovenia should decide on this matter. However, it is unfair to discuss this issue now that we have finally achieved television coverage at a time when people cannot watch this debate. This was correctly observed last time by journalist Glajen, in Dnevnik's Parliament, when he found that the National Assembly now that he has achieved television broadcasts is killing cars because those topics that are most interested in people fall within this evening's time when transmission is no longer possible. I know this is a conscious strategy for the leadership of the National Assembly, but this topic is of such interest to people, plus the citizens of Slovenia are so insulted by xenophobia and I don't know what else, with hypocrisy, I don't know what is right for them to listen to our discussions and our arguments. Therefore, in accordance with Article 72, I propose that today's meeting be suspended, and we continue it tomorrow, when the citizens of Slovenia will be the work of the national assembly, the arguments for and against them can be followed when they can decide. Who is afraid in this country that, in accordance with Article 3 of the Constitution, people will have authority in this country? I don't think we can decide against what's in the constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u91	Comrade Jerovšek. First of all, what you mentioned was not a procedural question. Another time. When it is then on the agenda, we talked to the college and also decided that today, Tuesday, starting at 2 p.m., the work of the intergovernmental conference, item 2, will be called for. Please don't interfere with these decisions again. Please take this into account. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u92	Article 72 provides an opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u93	Look. Article 72 shall have three paragraphs. Can I read them with you, or can you do it yourself? [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Can you turn off the microphone, please? [[...]] Thank you. The third paragraph states: The provisions of the preceding two paragraphs shall not apply to decisions by secret ballot to decide on procedural matters. What did you want with that? We are in the midst of an explanation of the groups of Members. All parliamentary groups are always, and also now have the same opportunity to end the presentation [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Please, Comrade Jerovšek! [[...]] I'm asking for peace in the hall! This is not an issue that interferes with the work of the National Assembly. Let's focus! Let us deal calmly with all the issues and so on! Comrade Malover has the floor. The groups of Members have the opportunity to present their views. And it's all the same. Always. Please take this into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your word. Messengers and Members! The subsequent legislative referendum is a constitutional right governed by the law on referendum and human initiative. The Constitution provides that it may be signed by the National Assembly after the adoption of the law, but if at least one third of the Members so require, the State Council or 40,000 voters. In our case, one third of Members demanded this. Thus, the National Assembly itself could call for a referendum on any law which it would consider necessary and meaningful to obtain the opinion of the electorate. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the law on the enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court is one of those laws which, at the time of adoption, has caused disagreements or violent reactions to the public, different opinions of the profession and many controversys. These responses are still an additional argument for the opinion of citizens and citizens. We regret that the National Assembly has not been able to do so much wisdom to reject the law in the vote on the veto. The solutions contained in the so-called technical law could be introduced into the general law on the residence of foreigners, which would take into account all the facts and clarify the criteria for obtaining a permanent residence permit In the case of a law that solves the issue of aliens or so-called deleted persons, it is a particularly sensitive issue and it is unacceptable that some use it for cheap pre-election propaganda. We believe that the reference to human rights violations in this case is entirely unfounded. That is why we do not support the conclusion of the parent working body. All of us, both citizens and foreigners, were in the same position at the time of independence - we had to settle our status in the new country. Some citizens of the former Republic of Slovenia in the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia also had to prove their stay to obtain citizenship in the new country. We would also like to point out that only 10% of the population of other republics, i.e. the Republic of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, did not regulate their status, even though they had the opportunity, like all the other 90%, but did not do so for some unknown reasons. We also believe that the subsequent granting of status puts all those who have acted in accordance with the applicable legislation in an unfair position. The debate on the adoption of the law did not give clear answers on all the consequences of the adoption of this law, which was why we did not support it in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We stress that there have been no clear answers to the claims that those foreigners who have already managed to settle their own status after the establishment of the country have been placed in an unequal position. In the Aliens Act, which is already under consideration, we must clearly and clearly record the consequences of the decisions issued and define the criteria for not being able to obtain a permanent residence permit in Slovenia for those who have acted against it or against the values obtained by independence. In the Slovenian People's Party, we do not oppose the Constitutional Court's decision, but we do oppose its implementation. We believe that it is the power of a constitutional decision to respect a different law. This should regulate enforcement in a way that is acceptable to the majority of citizens and citizens and the consequences of which will be clearly defined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u95	Thank you very much, colleague Malovre. This was the position of the SLS Group of Members. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by colleague Krebs, for her colleague Zupan, then by colleagues Potrč and Celigoj. First, my colleague, Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u96	Mr. President, thank you very much. Your Honor! The request for the call for an ex-legislative referendum of 30 Members and Members of Parliament wants us to ask voters and voters at the referendum: Are you in favour of the law implementing paragraph 8 of the Constitutional Court decision? In the LDS, we believe that, because of the content of the Constitutional Court decision, the content of the referendum requirement is contrary to the Constitution and that the failure to enforce the law would have counter-constitutional consequences. I'll explain the underlying doubt later. All I would like to say right now is that in the LDS we believe that the National Assembly is obliged to call for a referendum before inviting voters and voters to make decisions and before spending 600 million public funds, to remove all doubts about the referendum request. Any other action would be irresponsible. The Constitutional Court will remove all doubts within 15 days. We therefore do not quite understand why the motions for a referendum oppose this. There were no reasonable reasons for this, and I stress that we do not want to prevent the referendum as we are encouraged to do. I'd also like to explain two things. In view of the nature of the law implementing the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision, which lays down only the conditions and procedure for issuing the findings of the administrative decisions and in Article 2, only the application of the 8th paragraph of the Constitutional Court’s decision, it is therefore possible to establish that the electorates in the free Slovenia for the first time in the referendum would decide indirectly on the decision of the Constitutional Court. Allow me to try, however, to prove that there is a reasonable doubt in all the statements made by the groups here today. I will therefore read paragraph 8 of the ruling of the Constitutional Court and at the same time read Article 2 of the technical law, which states in Article 1 only that the law regulates the conditions and procedure for issuing the decision. In Article 2, which I will introduce below, the text is fully followed by point 8 of the Constitutional Court's decision and further urges the Ministry to complete the records on an official basis. In Article 3, however, it only refers to the updating of the residence record, which is something other than a residence permit. The Constitutional Court gave a direct order at point 8 when it stated: "With a residence permit issued under the law on the regulation of the status of nationals of other countries, the successors of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia or under the law on foreigners, the permanent residence of the citizens of other republics of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia shall be determined from 26.2.1992 if they were deleted from the register of the permanent population that day. The Ministry of the Interior must, on an official basis, issue supplementary decisions establishing their permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia from 26.2.1992 on." This is the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision. We have adopted a solution in the technical law, which, of course, we all claim is summarised in the content of point 8. We have discussed the Committee in detail, not only is it summarised, but it is even narrowed down because it excludes those who have obtained a permanent residence permit under the two Articles, namely Articles 17 and 41 of the Aliens Act, where it was not imposed on the Authority to determine the continuity of these people's actual residence, but who have obtained this permit on the basis of facilitated conditions such as family reunification, and it is not necessarily that they have lived permanently with us. These categories will be regulated in a system law where we are aware that all the actual conditions are impossible to regulate in this regulation. In this regulation, we want and are obliged to regulate directly what the Constitutional Court decision imposes on us. And in Article 2, we do not record anything other than the narrow decision of the Constitutional Court when we say in paragraph 1 that the procedure is therefore to be introduced by the Ministry responsible for internal affairs on an official basis. We continue to require that a foreigner or a foreigner who has obtained a permanent residence permit under the laws we collect, with the exception of a foreigner who has obtained a permanent residence permit under Articles 17 and 41 of the Aliens Act, therefore we narrow it down to issue a decision by the competent authority to determine his permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia from 26.2. or from the date of his disappearance until he obtains a permanent residence permit as a supplement to the issued permanent residence permit. Someone would say, "sacred forgiveness." What are we saying, are we all speaking a completely different language in this national assembly? I hope that by reading paragraph 8 of the sentence and paragraph 2 of the law, however, it is to be found that we follow the content of the Constitutional Court's decision completely - even narrowly, as I have pointed out. Here is the basis for doubts and, in fact, doubts that we are having, however, unable to allow voters and voters to directly decide on the decision of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is for that part of the deleted, which so far has been granted a permanent residence permit as aliens, and we kindly say that people have been granted citizenship, but that is not true. With regard to this law and on this issue, I would like to reiterate today that we are talking about people who have obtained permanent residence permits as foreigners and who have resided continuously in our country all the time since their independence. And since, of course, the Constitutional Court has also found this, it has ordered the 8th point to immediately regulate their status to the contrary, as it has already been established in administrative proceedings that they actually and continuously reside in Slovenia. Therefore, the indirect decision on the Constitutional Court's decision is based on our doubts, which could at the same time lead to the following situation, which we are equally assessing that cannot happen, because Parliament could be put to two opposing demands. In theory, suppose we call the referendum, the result of the referendum is no. Therefore, the law is not enforced, we do not correct the injustices and we continue to violate human rights in Slovenia, as we all know that Parliament must not decide a further year after the referendum. Therefore, when Parliament does not decide and therefore respects the will of the electorate, it also violates its failure to fulfil the obligations imposed on it by the Constitutional Court on the other hand, namely to remedy the unconstitutional consequences of the legislation. And that very view shows us that we cannot afford such a situation in a regulated state of law. And there's another doubt. We believe that in the Constitutional Court's decision, found human rights violations cannot be the subject of a referendum decision. In its decision, the Constitutional Court found that the law on foreigners and the rest of foreign law had violated the constitutional principles of the protection of trust in law and equality, by failing to take into account the important personal situation in determining the conditions for regulating the legal status of 18,000 people, namely, the permanent residence of these people in Slovenia prior to the exercise of their independence and their legitimate right, with the Constitution of a protected expectation that their legal status would not deteriorate. We would therefore, in our opinion and behaviour, be the first country in Europe to allow human rights to be decided at the referendum. For these reasons, we will support the decision in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Colleague Majda Zupan has the floor for the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Representative of the Government, colleague and colleague! The so-called deleted, of which words have been very common lately, are those born in one of the former Yugoslav republics and have lived among us for many years, and those who have come to our Republic just before its statehood, and those who have had a status or no status here before, as well as those who have lost their right to status through behaviour during Slovenian independence. The deleted status is therefore different and it is necessary to go down to the level of the individual case, which is the only way to determine what happened to them after the independence, when each of them had the opportunity to settle his status in our country, and he did not do so for such or other reasons and therefore agreed between the so-called deleted. The period from 1994 to 1999, when the Constitutional Court found the illegality of annihilation, is incomprehensible for a long time and the basic principle of democracy that the order in the field of the enforcement of decisions of the Constitutional Court is also not negligible. The government has therefore decided to resolve the problem of so-called deleted by two laws. One of them is supposed to be a so-called technical law, which is supposed to be called only for the sake of a nomotechnic solution, but it has a very unusual title, a law implementing the 8th point of the Constitutional Court of Slovenia. The law was adopted following a reduced procedure, as the government wanted a matter that was unfavourable for it to be closed once and for all and put off the agenda. The law does not contain a review of the financial consequences, but refers to that part of the so-called deleted, which has already been granted a residence permit under the provisions of the law on foreigners or the law governing the status of nationals of other countries, the successors of the former Yugoslavia. In our New Slovenia Group, we are not opposed to the constitutional decision, but we have been alerted throughout the process to an inadequate way of adopting it, we have been skeptical about the need for this law and we have been alerted to the issue of actual stay, so we felt that it would be necessary for each individual to determine the actual circumstances, some kind of revision, and only then to issue decisions and, lastly, we have also pointed out the importance of financial consequences. The government proposal did not require a permanent residence check because they were already expected to prove continued stay. Also, the excuse to adopt a law has all too often worked as an excuse. The fact is that some other legal experts felt that no special law was needed or that the whole matter could be regulated in one law and that the national assembly could also address the issue of compensation. The proposal already made it clear in the initial presentation that the law does not regulate the issue of compensation and therefore there is no need. If it comes to them, the government should support solutions that are rational for taxpayers, effective and not burden the judiciary too much, that large numbers are mere speculation and that the legislator himself would decide. All too unknown and insufficient convincing answers to support such a law. Even the State Council has vetoed it, which has not prevented Members of the ruling majority from re-voting the law. In due time, we have warned that solutions are not appropriate and that if the law is adopted, we will support the request for a referendum, which is our legitimate right. A voice of concern was also heard from the largest party that there could be a referendum or even internationalisation of the problem. However, arrogance by the ruling coalition did not allow a different solution than a selective approach to the different categories and the rejection of financial consequences, if the law has nothing to do with it. More. She even gave us a glimpse of the impatience that we were spreading because we had shown the content of the law significantly different from the actual one. And these are the readings that can't just be accepted. Therefore, the decision to call for a subsequent legislative referendum on this law is no longer questionable for us. Citizens and citizens are upset. They follow events, think and compare. We are confident that they will make the right decision in this case, even though the opponents of the referendum believe that human rights cannot be the subject of a referendum decision and that such a referendum has anti-constitutional consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, we should think about this first! Earlier, we should be more open to different solutions, more willing to listen and find answers to the questions raised. You weren't convincing, so it's no wonder that there were different variations in this subject among people, in the human rumor. One of them is that all of this is to be done, not for the erased, but for the bloated. In doing so, we cannot claim that people are not insensitive to human rights. Oh, my God, they are! And if the policy that should have advocated good democracy could not have listened to it, at least it should have allowed or did not oppose a referendum in which the people could say that the electoral mandate was not intended as a decision-making mandate on a matter on which citizens and citizens have a different opinion. Last but not least, we can't get past what some have already warned us about. Yesterday, on the Internal Policy Committee, there was a great deal of discomfort. To many from the ruling coalition, I'm sure it was a pity that it came so far with this law. Members of the ruling coalition have adopted a decision in which the National Assembly requires the Constitutional Court to decide that the content of the request for a referendum is contrary to the Constitution. I repeat, it requires the Constitutional Court to decide. After a bit of sobering up, they drafted an amendment in which they are a little modest that the Council of State considers that the content of the request for a referendum is contrary to the Constitution, which requires the Constitutional Court to decide on it. This is an excess of arrogance and a drop over the edge and says a lot about the bill's proponents and supporters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u99	Thank you. My colleague Miran Potrč has the floor for the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. There is no provision for rumbling in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! First, I will briefly explain why we have supported the law twice in the United List of Social Democrats. Firstly, we did not expect such objections to be possible to implement the Constitutional Court decision as they were and are still present today by the motions for a referendum. Simply, even because of naivety, we could not believe that one could speak so eccentricly, one could do the other. On the one hand, they said that we were prepared to enforce the decision of the Constitutional Court and, on the other hand, to deny or read the decision of the Constitutional Court entirely differently. So I believed, or we believed, that at least point 8 would be capable of making a decision. Secondly, we assumed and knew that the decision would be extremely difficult to call a system law. It will not be easy to define all the criteria that the law should define and ensure that those who do not live in Slovenia will not really be taken into account, so that those who do not live in Slovenia will not really take into account the opportunities and rights given by the law. We knew that the debate on this law would be extremely difficult, so we also supported the regular procedure in the coalition, so we also supported the preliminary presentation of opinions and therefore we were aware that this would be a matter that we will have to deal with in some way. The third reason was the opinion of the profession, which told us that it would be right for the decisions to be adopted on the basis of the enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision to be legally correct, to adopt a law which would provide the basis for that and which, on the other hand, would also regulate an appropriate solution to the permanent residence record. The last reason for us was the six-month deadline that expired. If we wanted to settle this in one marriage, we'd be six months away because we know it's been eight months now. We have only a public presentation in January and it is a matter of when we will be able to bring the so-called system law through all three hearings. These were the reasons why we supported this so-called technical law, indeed expecting that Slovenia, I say, is prepared to correct the injustices that have been found. As follows, I would like to express my opinion and my way or our way of understanding the law on referendum and human initiative. Article 16 provides that, or if the Council of State considers that the content of the request for a referendum is contrary to the Constitution, it may require the Constitutional Court to decide on it. That's what the law says. And the demand isn't rude, but it's the realisation of the law. The finding that we believe that a decision or a request for content is contrary to the Constitution is not inappropriate, but is a necessity that we must identify in the National Assembly. Otherwise, there is no reason to make any proposal to the Constitutional Court. We were, colleagues and colleagues, taught by the Constitutional Court when we adopted an opinion on the trade law. At that time, the Constitutional Court told us, first find that the anti-constitutional requirement is itself, then justify what is unconstitutional and which provisions of the Constitution are not in conformity and then make a request. We did this this time so that we would not make another mistake that we made in the referendum on the law on trade. Therefore, it is not a matter of any indecency or expectation that the Constitutional Court must decide as we expect. It will decide what his beliefs will be. However, the request must be made in such a way. Anyone who's ever filed a lawsuit knows what he's asking for in a lawsuit. That this one and this one have to pay for it and that. At the end of this request, either the court will grant or reject it, but it is their mediation right. I was obliged to say this because something about the content of the law should also be known when the grave allegations of no connection with the Constitutional Court and the insult of the Constitutional Court are being proclaimed. Thirdly, what I would like to say is that the content of the interpretations given in relation to the technical law and its content is finally being modified on the part of individuals. If he were very well-intentioned and read only an explanation, which was written upon request for a referendum, he would even allow the possibility that the applicants might only allow the 8th paragraph of the Constitutional Court's decision to be enforced. But only if I forget what some of the other 30 applicants are still saying today, and if I forget what they've been saying all this time. However, as long as I do not forget this, I fear that this is merely a formal explanation, but in fact, the signatories to this requirement continue not to accept the actual enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision. If I am wrong, and I would be happy if this were true, then I would expect the signatories to make it clear: that they recognize that the Constitutional Court found that in 1992 there was unconstitutionality and illegality; that there was indeed annihilation and that some people were unlawfully deprived of the right to permanent residence, which had no connection with citizenship, that it was true that these were people who had not been given a decision and many did not know it at all, but later found out that it was not for people who were not willing to comply with the applicable laws, that what they today appeared to them that it was for the majority of people who did not hate Slovenia, that these people were actually here for decades or more could live here, many were born here. And it could still be listed. Then it must be said and said, yes, we admit, that the Constitutional Court has found and not only read a sentence from 20 and more sides of the long explanations of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which is responsible for that moment for his own claim. Always torn quotes are very incorrect for use. However, as long as there are no such indisputable findings, I simply do not believe that it is a genuine willingness for the decision of the Constitutional Court to be carried out as proposed. I will also continue to recall for such a long time the fact that the candidates for the request for a referendum have always claimed that they want to give rights to individuals without determining their actual residence, which is not true. This is not true and it is simply not, as it is not true, not to say, although I know that they will reaffirm that their opinion is correct. Why isn't it true? Because the Law on the Regulation of the Status of Citizens of the Republic of the former Yugoslavia required a finding, a determination of the actual situation. Because the Aliens Act required a determination of the actual state of affairs. In view of the fact that the decision of the Constitutional Court in respect of those cases at least indicated that they already had status, that they had been legally granted and that the right to status should be established only for a period of time from 25 and 26 February 1992, when it was unlawfully confiscated from them by the State. But it's probably going to be hard to do that again and again, because there's always going to be someone who's going to start saying something different. It's not about any privileges. It's claimed to be people's privileges. Those who are citizens and have faithfully complied with our laws will be punished for this privilege. Ladies and gentlemen! Some existing rights of permanent residence have been revoked, and we now tell them that the law wants to give them privileges. And it can also be said that I wouldn't say it for a while because I don't believe I'm going to convince anyone. I'll say something. I know that this is legally impossible, but I would only be very happy if it could be possible to find independent experts who would figure out what the Constitutional Court's decision really says, what the content of these laws is, and to prove how you move and say things far away from the truth, and at the same time wonder how people are upset about it. I'm sure they're upset because if it were true what you're saying, then I'd say those marriages are bad. You just can't prove it. But you can argue ahead and go to a pre-election game to put people in a precarious position who then wouldn't know how to make a decision. Let me finish. The request submitted by the decision of the parent working body, the Internal Policy Committee, is in accordance with Article 16 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. It is our duty to make such a request until the expiry of the time limit when the referendum should be announced. The expiry of this period shall be 7 days in the case of a 30-signature application. And this is what we had to give this time frame, and this is a preliminary issue that needs to be decided first. The reasons for this are given in the opinion of the Office for Law and Opinion of the Government, also summarised in the decision of the parent working body. On the basis of this content, the Constitutional Court will take a decision as it deems appropriate. And now there's only one thing that's beyond the immediate context of this session. I am very pleased that the Constitutional Court, in relation to the issue which we have not been able to resolve in this National Assembly in a timely manner, but concerning the interests of the people, this is a question relating to income and the rights of pastors, issued a decision a good week ago in which it found that the law in this section is illegal, repealed and, therefore, from now on, the same rights for pastors to increase the percentage of the child allowance for a larger number of family members as applied to all children born in law. This illegality, which for many reasons the National Assembly has failed or failed, has failed, has now been abolished. I'm giving you this notice that you wouldn't continue to claim that this was not done. But it is true that the Constitutional Court did, not the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u101	Thank you, colleague Miran Potch. And also the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Private Cheligoy, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u102	Your Honor. At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, the DeSUS Group has already expressed its support for the Committee's decision, and has also justified this by several times the position expressed so far to demonstrate the adoption of a decision by the Constitutional Court and to correct possible injustices against those who have been wronged and corrected. We believe that the initiative of the Group of Members to request a referendum is not a good direction in solving this problem, both in a legal position as we understand it, when we know that we must respect the decisions of our highest judicial authority in the country if we are to maintain the legal credibility of our legal system, as well as for principle reasons when we are aware of a political decision that does not fall within the referendum, as well as for purely human reasons, when conscious injustices should indeed not be a place in our society, which in Europe, through our human good regulation, high culture and openness. In the parliamentary group, we regret that this problem, for which the proposed option would be a simple solution, has caused so much party political noise, undisclosed political suction and the re-sharing of citizens into each other. However, political spears are once again broken on third parties, who expect us to solve a prudent problem that they have not brought to justice. We agree with all the concerns raised by the Internal Policy Committee regarding the referendum on a decision already adopted by the Constitutional Court and support the decision of the Committee on the Constitutional Court's assessment of the initiative of the 30 Members concerning the rejection of the law already adopted in the National Assembly and the likely unconstitutional consequences. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposed decision of the Internal Policy Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u103	Thank you very much. These were the views of the groups of Members. We will now turn to the debate of MEPs and Members. I will read the names in front of my reported colleagues: Jože Tanko, Ivan Mamić, Franci Rokavec, Roman Jakič, Rudolf Petan, Jožef Jerovšek, Alojz Sok, Jelko Kacin, Franz Kangler, Alojz Peterle and Dr Andrej Bajuk. So I'd just like to say a word to my colleague, Jozet Tank. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. First, I'd like to express a procedural protest. The law under consideration does not have any other effects treated in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I must say that a few days ago, I also introduced my own law into the procedure, and the president of the National Assembly calmly rejected it, and today, with the cold letter, he rejected it because there were no other consequences of the law. I think it is inconceivable that the individual laws and proposals tabled by Members or anyone else in this national assembly should be dealt with in such a discriminatory way. I must say, I do not understand this duality that I have experienced in this case. I think it's too much of every word. Secondly, I would like to say that Slovenia, that we Slovenians or Slovenians have experienced three wars in recent centuries. World War I brought us a merger under the patronage of the Serbian royal house and placed under the domination of this royal house, which is said to be under Serbian domination and their royal houses. The second war on these mass matters, after this violent cleansing, which was reflected as a mass exodus or as a mass massacrer, which was several times or even ten times larger than in Srebrenica, added that we had received confirmation that we were to remain in this common country. Something has come up that is supposed to be permanent and we have received a President with a permanent mandate. We must say that after World War II, there was a markedly strong political segregation that had also tragically ended for many. Anyone who had a different opinion, who ended up on the wrong side or who was only suspected of cooperation, was in great danger. At that time, no one was invited by the authorities to join and support the country’s creation after the Second War. It was enough to suspect that people had been subjected to cruel acts, such as the dispossession of property, loss of civil rights, harassment, and imprisonment, as well as to violent and illegal deaths. The state didn't invite anyone back then, but it just sanctioned them. In 1991, we had a third war, a war for Slovenia itself, a war to be fought to get out of the then common country. This war was waged on the basis of a referendum which defined almost 90% of the citizens of Slovenia at the time as a single country. And even though public and strong opposition was expressed at the time, especially JLA, this war was short-lived and with very few victims. We can say that despite all this, it was a human war. The country or the present Demos invited all the then inhabitants of Slovenia, regardless of nationality, regardless of religious affiliation, education or position of skin colour, and so on, to join and help shape the country of new different values and to also regulate their status. With this move, the country wanted to make a point, a review of the situation, we can say, even an inventory, because it wanted to figure out what remained of the war and emergency situation and who else could be counted on. It must be acknowledged that it has approached very subtlely, with the sense that it has carried out the procedure and has asked everyone, many of whom too, to arrange their status, to arrange their residence and to determine whether they also want to be a citizen or a foreigner. It must be acknowledged that 90% of those who were not Slovenians by origin have arranged their status on the basis of these. Without special efforts, they gained what they wanted in the administrative process, and today they enjoy exactly the same rights as the original Slovenians. To these people, no one is obvious, in fact, we are grateful that they have decided to help build our common country and contribute their share to its well-being. Nowhere is there a word of xenophobia, nor a word of disrespect, nor a word of human rights violations. Whoever they asked, and these statements have recently been many of those who have settled their situation, their situation, no one has criticized either the procedure or the way. Everyone said that he had received an invitation, and that was the basis for his decision. I have to say that this treatment was significantly different in 1991 than it was in 1945, and also significantly different from today's treatment of those, we can say, the unfortunates of that period have been over 50 years. We haven't given many people piettes yet, they don't have graves, we haven't even given their heirs a death certificate. And we can ask ourselves where human rights are here, where morality and ethics are, where the ombudsman is hiding, where all those are, we can say what aggressive peacekeeping organizations and institutes are. There are no tribunals, no public assemblies, but for 1991, and a year ago, we have the same majority and the same authority. The Constitutional Court decision requires regulation for some of the former inhabitants of that country who did not wish to do so in most cases, and some have not been able to arrange it in time. Many of the current prospectors for the recognition of permanent residence, including status and even compensation, then rejected this option. Some also went to fight on other Yugoslav battlefields, something, perhaps quite a few, and they were also evicted because their stay in that country was also possible under their honor. But their departure was their choice and their desire. We can say that in these times when we are talking about 'Schengen' and when we approach and join Europe, at this time a lot has changed and at that time a large majority of these people have returned. This return is also their choice and their desire. They come back because of much more difficult and also significantly worse situations in the south, so we can say that economic emigration is also involved in some part. This procedure, forced by the government coalition, is unfair to all those who have settled their status in a timely manner, as well as to those who have moved to other countries. I know that in practice, in administrative procedures mistakes and injustices can also occur, and they need to be remedied. That's true of everyone. However, injustices cannot be eliminated in general, but individual procedures and evidence and determinations must be allowed, as in denationalisation. Each case needs to be carefully processed and found out what happened, so we also proposed an amendment to the law, which unfortunately was not adopted. The correction of injustices in the manner proposed by the amendment would not be contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision. However, the procedure would be clear, clear and correct to all who, on the basis of this provision, would enforce what this decision would give us. In recent times, we have heard that marriage is meaningless. This is what some eminent politicians of the ruling coalition have told us, perhaps including a constitutional lawyer. I wonder why, if such an opinion is also among the top politicians of the ruling coalition, why is this law being pushed through the procedure, or why it is also prevented from a referendum decision. The law is actually bad, it's imprecise, and it's also biased. The reflection of the state of the spirit in that country also reflects the proposal for a decision transmitted to the working body by the Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy, which requires the Constitutional Court to decide to reject the referendum initiative. It is indeed arrogant that the Committee of the National Assembly requires an independent institution to reject this proposal. And it is also a great arrogance that this decision is also supported by, I can say, what is important humanists in this national assembly who are so concerned about, what is with the rights, what is with the independence of the authorities of this country, and also what is constitutionally wrong in this country. It's probably more about nostalgia than it is about any humanity. The request signed by the 30 members of the National Assembly is not in any way directed at a decision of the Constitutional Court, but it is directed or intended - protesting only against a decision forced by some government parties through the procedure of the National Assembly, namely the Liberal Democracy, the United List and DeSUS. And this decision, this solution is bad, and we also know that all those who are characterized as functionally illiterate. With the referendum, if we decide to go to the referendum, there will be no unconstitutional consequences, and the possibility will be given to adopt such a law that can truly be in the national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u105	I give my word to my colleague Ivan Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Greetings to all present! As has already been said, we deal too much with things that could be solved in a simpler and more practical way. We deal too much with people, so we can say that it's also in some way manipulating them actually. I'd like to talk about the things I've experienced myself, so don't hold on like Mr. Potsch said the truth is just what he says. I'm going to talk about the truth I've experienced. The National Assembly already knows that I am one of the 172,000 who have taken care of their citizenship, who have accepted Slovenia as their second country. I've been stationed here. I live here. And I have never experienced any bullying on any side in Slovenia. Never. Not when people didn't even know me or later. And when it came to those people that were around 10% left, that was my big concern back then. I've been working on it. I was a member of the Civil Protection Corps, and I participated in all these things that happened at the time. And, of course, I shared my concern with these people. Not just because they're my compatriots, I've taken care of others. I also helped many, if not others, with some advice. I also wanted to help those who were sadly unable to help because they simply did not understand things and probably even today they do not understand them. The last time there was a speech - thank God, it was not mentioned today - that Peterlet's government was responsible for everything. That's what we heard. I would say that they were awkward offices, because we should also give people some information, write on some billboard, how and who can get citizenship. Maybe there's no other way. That didn't happen. Then those people were when they realized after a while, but it was too late. So there wasn't too little time when 172 thousand people got citizenship, so could those, I don't know how many, 18 or how many, or even less. So it wasn't an obstacle, not a reason. Then what happened? When they realized that they were stateless and that citizenship had to be given to live normally, they had to give proof that they were not citizens of the country where they were born. I didn't have Croatian citizenship either. Of course I didn't. But I had to bring a certificate of where I was born and that basic data. I've already forgotten what it took. It wasn't much. After that fateful date, if I so call it, it was required of others to bring a certificate that they were not citizens of the country where they were born. They saw this at the consulates, and they wanted something out of it. Only specifically, for the Croatian Consulate I knew that it was necessary to pay 500 marks in the beginning in order to obtain confirmation that he was not a Croatian citizen. In a short time, they raised the quota to 2,000 marks. And at the time, people gave up, because 2,000 marks got, it was hard for one worker. So it was also a major obstacle, and then, in fact, everything got blocked, stopped. Then it also botched up to this conversation we are having right now. From what happened to these people, that they were being bullied, that, and that, and I don't know anything else, and let's say one famous Slovenian, which was last mentioned here, he wrote on two sides, the indigenous Slovene, "Ethical cleansing in a Slovenian way", and writes that Slovenian politics has done this by bringing over 80 to 100,000 people across the border. That's what it says. 80 to 100,000 people. The question is whether 172 000 have been granted citizenship and the 80, for example, 250 000 have not been foreigners in Slovenia. Mr. Jakich, I've read this. I can show you. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] No, the journalist. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u107	Please don't interfere with the word [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u108	If I write something, with your name and surname, you can take it for granted. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u109	This is also said to have been an instigation, that the oil was poured into the fire instead of shutting down to help. My proposal would be that, but it's only likely that it's too late now, but why wasn't it worried about these people that those of you who want to because today some people don't want citizenship, but that's their legitimate right, you can't force them to do it if they don't want to. But those who want citizenship must be given this as soon as possible in order to have the status of a citizen of Slovenia. But now there is no need to burden the country and the national assembly and so on. That's why I said it was that big concern of all of us, I can tell. I, for example, would actually like to see that those people would really get it as soon as possible. I'd like to help them, too. And I feel sorry for those who didn't even know what it was. I wanted to help them back then when it was time, and I would help them now, but from all this, I'm going to do it again, probably just some manipulation of these people. They didn't even deserve it after all. Now that category you're talking about. Those who were against the independence of Slovenia, who were working against Slovenia and went away, now came back when they saw that it was not so "lucy" where they went, but saw that it was worth coming back to Slovenia, regardless of whether they had bloody hands or at least dirty hands. Now they want another rehab, and I don't know what else. I don't think that's the way to address this problem. Of course, we do not now have the information that there are so many and so many of them, but because of those who are honest, they will also come in. I will not use the word that this was speculation, because Mr Školč, who is not here now, has recently said that this is an ugly word and so on. But they were tacturing. That's how I'm gonna use the word. They've been tacturing. Confession of guilt that she was made by the state. She made it. But all right, so much for fixing the injustices of what the state has done, it's not a crime, because we know that crime is not obsolete. [[...]] That kind of thing, we don't know if it's such a terrible problem. If we weren't really hiding behind the financial side, I don't think we'd have that much trouble here. Let's also say that when we were in Trenji we listened to the question of Mrs. Krebs [[And she's not here either.]] Where Slovenia will go for the money. And she said, "There's gonna be a new law that won't have to pay for that money." Isn't that also manipulation with these people? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u110	Thank you, Comrade Mamić. Franci Rokavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u111	Thank you for your word. I have the feeling that the proponents of the proposal for a referendum on the subsequent legislative referendum are already serving the proposed amendments to Article 90, in which, in fact, when such a constitution is adopted, I hope that it is not possible to refer to the subsequent legislative referendum, including to the Constitutional Court for a constitutionality. However, Article 90 of the existing Constitution states that the National Assembly may call a referendum on matters governed by law. That's the law. The fact is that this referendum, which is being proposed, will not decide on human rights. This referendum will decide on the law implementing the 8th point of the Constitutional Court. This raises the question of why there was only a law for the 8th point of implementation of the Constitutional Court. No one in this country has given an absolute explicit view that it is necessary for the Ministry of the Interior to write two laws. I have before me a record of the Public Administration Council of the Ministry of the Interior and also of other legal experts who were invited on 6.10.2003. Members of the Council and other legal experts are: Prof. Dr. Gorazd Trpin, Prof. Dr. Albin Igličar, Professor Dr. Miro Cerar, Prof. Dr. Igor Kavčič, Prof. Tone Jerovšek, Prof. Dr. France Bučar, Prof. Dr. Mitja Žagar and Prof. Dr. Franci Grad. Eminent legal experts in our country who wrote the following under point 5 of their opinion to the Ministry [[I'll quote or read]] : "Despite the fact that the Constitutional Court has not ordered the National Assembly to order the enforcement of the 8th point of that decision by law, it can and must also do so if it finds that it is necessary. In view of the reasons set out above, the National Assembly must also regulate the enforcement of the 8th point in the law, even if we take the view that the above reasons are not generally accepted, they present at least some serious legal concerns as to the possibility of direct implementation of the 8th point. In view of the vague legal situation, it is therefore certainly appropriate and necessary for this state of affairs to be governed by law." And now crucially, most importantly: "Should implementation of the 8th point be regulated in a special law or in a single law, together with implementation of points 1, 2 and 3 is a question of practical nomotechnics." On 8 November, the President of the Constitutional Court, Mrs Dragica Wedam Lukić, also said that there was no need for technical law in the evening. From all of this, one begins to wonder very seriously where, in fact, the purpose of the law on the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision is to be drawn up. This is the first case in which the individual decision of the Constitutional Court was implemented to be dissected into several laws. And here is the main observation - an obvious statement to the proposer and the majority in this national council that, despite the concerns that were explicitly exposed to the entire debate in the national assembly, as well as in the national council, there was no willingness or decision on the procrastination veto, that - then there was still time - without a referendum, and if necessary, and I am sure that a referendum would have to be reached, first of all the blame for those who were not prepared to decide on the procrastinal veto to consider that the matter could be resolved in a single law without a referendum. I believe that it has once again been shown here, as in several cases this call by the National Assembly, that there is no longer any argument on some issues, but it does not stand. And, look, then yesterday this matter of the Committee on Internal Policy, or the decision that was adopted, first of all on the request - this is a special chapter at all - is now proposed to the Group of Members of the United Nations and the Liberal Democracy that the Constitutional Court should be sent to the so-called "change" State Assembly, to change the situation, to ease the situation. But what's interesting is the second question. This proposal also refers to a violation of Article 1 of the Constitution, which states that Slovenia is a democratic republic, Article 2, of the Constitution, which states that Slovenia is a legal and social state, Article 3, which states that Slovenia is a country of all its citizens and citizens based on the permanent, inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination. In Slovenia, the power of the people, citizens and citizens is exercised directly and through elections based on the principle of the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial. And Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution, which mainly refer to equality before the law and the exercise and limitation of rights. We refer to the fact that the Constitutional Court's decision should be resolved in a complete, comprehensive, single law. And it will be a very interesting decision by the Constitutional Court on the issues I have raised, including by quoting all five articles that you consider to be contrary to this referendum initiative, deciding on the constitutional court on this question of yours, how the Constitutional Court can decide something when the proponents, the initiators for the call for a subsequent legislative referendum, want to resolve the whole issue in one law. To settle all decisions of the Constitutional Court in one law. It will be interesting to monitor this decision of the Constitutional Court. In fact, it is also probably in this segment that we are reading a decision of what kind, but I believe that we have more than enough reasons on this issue, not just because of the facts that are essential to all the issues that have arisen. The fact that there are no clear questions as to the financial implications and the question of a really selective approach to solving the problem of course brought before us by a decision of the Constitutional Court. In doing so, I am deeply convinced that only a law that will be comprehensive can solve this issue in one place solve the Constitutional Court's decision. I think that there will be still very interesting moments of reading the documents on this basis, but I am more than confident that at the end of this decision it will probably only prevail in judgment, and that we will leave the decision to the people first, and then write a law that will, of course, reflect fully, in a single law, the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u112	Thank you, Comrade Rokavec. Roman Jakič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues! See, the issue that we are dealing with today is difficult and forces us to be extremely sensitive in dealing with it. Today, talk about people, their rights, their freedoms, and the fears of anxiety may even be discontent. This is not necessarily an expression of impatience, but especially in my opinion of ill-informedness, but in many cases very harsh, even primitive treatments and sensitive ones by those who should really care about respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms as enshrined in the second chapter of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and in particular those who, like all of us, are commanded by the Constitution that we should not promote inequality and intolerance. In the absence of respect for the obligations of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the feelings of citizens and citizens can be stepped up or developed into discomfort and even fear. When dealing with the issue of erased, these fears are great, at least some of them with their own executions and insults, and above all they want to do so. It is a political game whose main actors do not really care that it is the fundamental values of Slovenian society, fought in decades for the right of all of us and for the achievement of the standards of the developed world. Unnecessary, and this is the most painful, they also shed a bad light on Slovenia in the eyes of our friends in civilized and democratic countries. And where a mistake that is made is conscious, or those who do not understand, it is necessary to restore history. In fact, on 23 December 1990, about 200,000 people from countries of the former Yugoslavia lived in the Republic of Slovenia. In the context of the then SFRJ, citizens of other republics, as citizens of Yugoslavia and regardless of their republic or nationality, enjoyed all rights in Slovenia if of course they had a registered permanent residence in Slovenia. And then there was the conquest, we called these same people to a referendum, and, of course, through law, we allowed them to acquire citizenship. And here I agree with all the debaters. 170 thousand people took advantage of this six-month period and took over the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. Of the remaining 30,000 left Slovenia according to data, 11,000 left Slovenia, and 18 thousand 305 did not submit them within the prescribed time limit for various reasons of the application for citizenship. Some simply did not know the procedure, others confused citizenship with nationality, and some refused to apply for citizenship because they wanted and thought they could maintain their status as permanent residents. For intermezzae or for some plastic play; I imagine that most of us who are Slovenians, for example, would not be allowed to apply in some hypothetical situation where we would have a permanent residence in the Republic of Germany and this Germany would have fallen apart in all these provinces and some of us would not have accepted citizenship because we would like to remain citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with permanent residence in Lower Saxony. But where does this problem come from? These people couldn't keep this status. See, can we ask: Was Demos discriminatory in 1992 to almost 20 000 with us permanent Croats, Bosniaks, Serbs, Kosovars, Macedonians, Roma, etc., whom we invited a year earlier to vote for the independence of the Republic of Slovenia? Did Demos purposely erase only the so-called Southerners, and consciously forget them, or knowingly put them in a special category, American, French, Turke, Chinese, who had a permanent residence or temporary residence in the Republic of Slovenia, say whether he recognized these same Demos less rights or benefits to some than others? My answer and my opinion, of course, are yes, and I am also convinced by the reports of the international institutions, in addition to my personal reflection. Let me mention only the European Commissioner for Human Rights, Alvar Gil-Robles, who met with the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe, of course submitted a report on respect for human rights in the Republic of Slovenia and cited the situation as deleted under a special chapter. And that's exactly what he's finding out. What I'm trying to tell you is where the mistake is. To those, and I quote: "Those who did not apply for citizenship and those whose application was rejected were transferred to the register of foreigners on 26.2.1992. The transfer was carried out "ex officio" and the persons concerned were not informed of the deletion from the register of permanent residents or taught about their new legal status. As a result, these people, many of whom have lived in Slovenia for decades, have become foreigners and have lost all rights related to the status of permanent residents and many have not been aware of it at all." The European Commissioner for Human Rights continues in his report: "Many have been deprived of pensions, housing, access to health care and other social rights. The personal documents of these persons, such as identity cards, passports and driving licences, have been revoked, some, but in a smaller number, have even been expelled as illegal immigrants" - the end of the quote or should I quote that in the conclusion of this report, the Committee of Ministers, in its recommendation and conclusions, stated that "it is necessary to ensure that the situation deleted from the register of permanent residents is settled immediately in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia." Take a look at the fact that this report was actually made before the first reading of the law, and also in the report itself, Gil-Robles said that, according to the assurances of the Ministry of the Interior, the President of Parliament that, of course, the matter in preparation had been well-meaningly written that, despite all of this, Slovenia still met all the conditions set out as a criterion for the fulfilment of human rights, it seems to me that the European Commissioner for Human Rights would not like the events relating to the deleted. According to the information I have, some fellow Members in the European Parliament have already begun to take an interest in this issue. The competent authorities in the Republic of Slovenia have also requested material on the subject deleted. And given that these days they are going hand in hand with two initiatives to call for a referendum, this one about the deleted and the one at local level about the construction of the mosque or the Islamic religious and cultural centre, I am genuinely concerned about what the European Members will say about Slovenia, particularly the MEPs of Peterlet and Brejč's EPP. In Europe, it is clear that human rights and freedoms in democratic systems are not a matter of referendum decision; they are not decided at the referendum, because tomorrow we can put on the referendum, for example, a request for the abolition of rights for Slovenians or for the abolition of rights for national minorities, the abolition of rights of security or the protection of the confidentiality of letters, freedom of expression, freedom of movement or the reintroduction of the death penalty, not to refer to a banal case if tomorrow to a referendum, or to all Members, government representatives and state administrations to abolish the basic right to pay for the work they are doing, I have the feeling that they would be in the referendum tomorrow, of course, all of them without pay. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I hope, in fact, that on the eve of the World Day of Human Rights and Freedoms we will not give occasion to the institutions of the European Union to reopen the chapter on the protection of human rights in Slovenia unjustifiably. As President of the Political Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I would be ashamed.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u114	Thanks, buddy Jakich. I give my word to Rudolph Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! My colleagues have said a lot of things, and I'm not going to go into the content, but I'm going to go into the procedure. In fact, at the outset, I was summoned by the President, who reads, to report on what happened at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, and I owe it to him because they are incorrect statements and therefore I have the right to say what it was like. I am at the meeting immediately at the beginning of the first minute in the procedural matter, and I will read, as I have said, it is written: "The agenda we received is: To address the requirements for the call for a subsequent legislative referendum and so on." To summarize the analogy in previous cases, I would point out that, say, 3.5.2001, when it came to a very similar matter and I will explain it later, the agenda was as follows: the proposal for a decision on the call for a subsequent referendum. But now we're moving on. At this meeting, I immediately received an answer that the matter was not the same, but that it was a combination of Article 184 of the current Rules of Procedure. And if we look at this 184th Rule of the Rules of Procedure, it doesn't talk about any combination. In our case, not at all. Ours is Article 185. And now, given the force ratio that was on the board, it didn't make any sense for me to kick my head through the wall yesterday and, I don't know, demand this or that because it would have been over-voted anyway. I was not in favour of this agenda, but because there was no vote, I could not express it either; we simply continued on the agenda presented. So what I want to say and what is an incorrect statement is not true is that no one intervened under such a tabled agenda. I don't know if I should have made a scandal out there to be respected and taken into account by my word, which was perfectly normal, expressed in a perfectly normal way, in a calm way, because my way of doing things is so that I don't do scandals. But obviously in our national council, if you don't make a scandal, then they don't respect you at all. Okay, now we're moving on to the agenda and to this interpretation of the combination of Article 184, which is not true. See, in the new Rules of Procedure 185, Article 185 is Article 185, which refers to the request for a legislative referendum, not 184. That was the first one, I'm not gonna say whether it was a delusion or a conscious one, but it was wrong. Today I have received an interpretation from the Secretary-General that this was in 2001 under the old rules of procedure. However, I have an old Rules of Procedure, I have not yet rejected it, and in this old Rules of Procedure they speak 230, 31st and 32nd paragraphs, and in the new 184th, 185th and 186th paragraphs, which are exactly the same. So there is no difference between the old rules and the new rules of procedure. Now let's move on. In 2001, we had on the agenda a proposal for a resolution on the call for a subsequent legislative referendum. Today we have the same committee, the Internal Policy Committee, the same mandate, this is this mandate, and this is the same formal matter, it is said, the subsequent legislative referendum. All three things match. This is said, in legal terms, the case should be analogous. And in 2001 there is a proposal for a call for proposals and today there is a call for a subsequent legislative referendum. Why the duality? Why misinterpretation or committee deception? Why did I get the wrong article today, rather than the contents? We could say that something was wrong in a procedural sense. In a strange way, we skipped the decree in a strange way, I say. But someone else could use a more solid term, and there could be fraud. However, it was certainly a strange way, and if, in the national assembly, the procedure must apply and, in particular, in such a committee, particularly in such a committee, analogy and all things coincide, the same mandate, the same committee, and different procedures. So we've got different meters, we've got different approaches to one thing and different approaches to another, so it's unacceptable, and once again it's not true that no one has come forward. But this, after all, is not that important, it's not that important, it's about how the agenda should be, what we should decide. I also mentioned some other things there, but I will not now accept them, and I will torture you with this, because everything is in the record, I can and will probably explain again on the appropriate occasion, in the way we work in the National Assembly. And I'd like to say something else, on this committee, we've been informed that the president is probably just preparing this with the "sport" he has. I think someone else has to make it. I'm not going to criticize a president who has whatever he has, he should be "ported" by someone else without giving him the initiative, but then, as he calls it, walking with his hand in a crane on a bone. Others must prepare this for him because in that first case someone else prepared it, the service of the National Assembly. And even in this case they should be. So here too, we can ask ourselves if the president finally figured out why there was nothing to be done, and then he tried to solve the matter himself. That's the situation. And here today we decide some of the wrong things. We should make a decision. About the decree, then, of course, all the requirements associated with it, given that it was an announcement for the examinations and so on. But the analogy has to work. If this one doesn't work here, then it's all home. And I'm going to use that expression again, and in a strange way, we've come up with what we're talking about today, something else we should talk about or at least both. That no one will ever be surprised when a word of deception appears. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u116	Thank you very much. My friend Maximilian Lavrinz wants to know that he was appointed chairman of the committee. It has a certain explanation or replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very kind, but I could be a bit of a grave. See, point 7 on the 91st page of the Rules of Procedure refers to the procedure relating to the referendum. Then he talks about, so individual articles of the Rules of Procedure speak of different situations. One of these is the call for a legislative referendum. And then the individual members speak differently. So things aren't written to be interpreted in one way or another. That's the first one. That is why I think it is right that our commission, which is responsible for interpreting the Rules of Procedure, should therefore be entertained. Second, "Who else?" I asked in the end, 'if not', and it wasn't and so on and of course, as I said before today, I understand that now, so in some difficulty, that I've underemphasized the role of someone on the committee yesterday, that we should say then, we have tried to avoid such a point or that the process matter has been taken wrong. I am sure that the business commission will also consider that the process matter has been well taken, that it is right if the point is called what it was called. And rightly so, if it is called what is called today’s session. So much for, not an apology, but I also think that, in this case, criticism is an explanation and in this case there is also criticism of the work of the professional services, not only the professional services of the committee, but also the professional services of the National Assembly, in some way, not in some way, absolutely incorrect, unfair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u118	Thank you. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! Let me once again express my disagreement with the scenario of how this national assembly works when there are points on the agenda that are extremely interested in the Slovenian public. Today, in the event that we could monitor the entire course of the session via television screens, we would have an extraordinary view of the National Assembly, as this issue is of great interest to the Slovenian public. And I think that from plebiscite the Slovenian public was not as united as in this case that the authorities made it, they drafted a law which in some way goes against the interests of the citizens of Slovenia. The vast majority of citizens, including the 180,000, who, in the turn of 1991, expressed the desire to create their future on these soils, who did not allow themselves to be removed from those who threatened and scolded in those days. We know that among the protagonists of the so-called Society, many of those former rallyers, former people who turned against Slovenia's independence, have been wiped out. Mr President, I would like to speak [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u120	I'm asking for peace in the hall. We don't bother the debaters. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u121	who have sinned against this country. [[...]] And I think that in every European country there is such legislation that provides for those who are disloyal citizens or who have sinned against the country, even certain sanctions. The Slovenian state was extremely broad-minded. She carried out an unwritten abolition of all those who committed crimes by violence, by actively fighting Slovenian citizens against that country, who had sinned against the classic provisions of the Penal Code. However, as far as I know, no one has been convicted in this country. We have heard in these days that the vice-president of this society has also fought in units that have tried to prevent Slovenia's independence, and yet he has acquired citizenship, which will remain permanent. A man would expect to be grateful to the state, but he publicly stated that he was fighting for compensation. To fight for compensation, we heard his statement on this. And, see, in the first kinds of those who today pour manure on the vast majority of Slovenians, that they are xenophobic, that they are impatient, because these observations fly on all Slovenes and all citizens of Slovenia to be very precise. To those 90% who do not agree with this solution, who also consider that this law is not written in the spirit of the Constitutional Court decision, which none of them say should be executed in order to separate weeds from grain. And, look, in the front lines, as I said, protagonists, those who mud Slovenia in foreign media, say, in Il Piccol, "Slovenia xenophobic". This is a prominent counter-Slovakia newspaper, which also represents irregularist opinions, often features such articles. I have become aware that the position of the President of this society, Mr Todorovic, that Slovenia is an uncivilised country, that it does not want to be a citizen of such a country, is still maligning it today. And I remembered the former LDS Member who published the pamphlet "I will not be on the declaration of independence" a few days before his independence in Del. And there he wrote: "In any case, I am sure that such independence leads far from civilization and culture of a developed and united Europe." These words about the non-civilisation of Slovenia appeared there. Then he says, "Thank you, gentlemen of the authorities, for such a history, I did not need it personally," says independent Slovenia. And today, the same gentlemen are allowing themselves to attack, say, Mr. Peterlet, that he has signed under the sole request for a referendum. It's supposed to be xenophobic and, as I say, impatience. I think that some of these gentlemen have been running intolerance against this country for 13 years, despite the fact that the country has then given them the opportunity to be ambassadors and secretaries of state. And that kind of policy, unfortunately, gentlemen, is where you represent it. He's literally trying to get this country to its knees. These protagonists who fought Slovenia, publicly predict compensation, demand compensation. And with the conditions in this country, of course, they will succeed. And now, what is undemocratic about the proposal for a referendum here? Did you not, gentlemen of this opposition, not, from this coalition, from this ruling elite, thus create a precedent when it came to the decision of the Constitutional Court with a referendum, subsequent, on the Koper municipality? Do you think the Constitutional Court is going to overrun its own, as if it didn't cancel that referendum to prevent it? That's when it didn't stop him. This means that the Constitutional Court should now spit in its own bowl, not acknowledge any continuity, and decide on this matter in a completely different way. I think it's possible to make a referendum decision on every marriage. Last but not least, in this country, under Article 3, the people in this country have authority. Otherwise, I could agree with the Government's view that this would be to decide on the mother who is within the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. But was it not under the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court in the Koper case? Wasn't it a constitutional court decision? So that's what the same area did. Why is there a need for diametrically different in this matter now? Why are all the lawyers, the government, stuck in one horn? Why do I have to protest, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, that I heard the opinion of our legislative service yesterday on one of the reports. Without a report from any other committee. I think that this service is a service, and it has no duty and right to go about zeal and credibility, and that it misleads the Slovenian public with its opinions on unconstitutionality. It's outrageous that this is happening. This is the rest of the previous system, though. This service must be a service for Members and the National Assembly. But not to go public with my notions of misleading legal formulations. And, gentlemen, in this country, they fall due to democratic proposals in the highest presentation of human will, observations, or threats and slanders about the Nazi state. That there are obviously about 90% fascists in this country. It is no wonder, as I have already said, that then in the most anti-Slovenian newspapers there appear such, of course, they are seized, they are spread by the same people who are profaning this country, the formulations that are trying to devalue this country in front of the European public who are trying to harm it. Mr Jelinčič has already mentioned that we were recently in Latvia. Europe has sometimes even disgusted itself with the independence of this country years ago. It also seemed to me that they have too many radical laws that Europe has sometimes referred to as racist but have softened a few soybeans, while at the same time Europe has realized that it is sometimes necessary to cut down in defence of some more rigorous legal solutions in the defence of its own country and its own identities. As a result, they do not hold this statement that Slovenian citizens, citizens of Slovenia, are fascist, are Nazi-oriented. I think that 87, 90% of these citizens would not have sought a democratic state, they would not have created it in a referendum, plebiscite, and I strongly protest that in all the media there were such signs of citizens of Slovenia. If you are to prevent this referendum, I am convinced, in fact, that you have exerted every effort to ensure that everything is done in order to prevent it from being decided and expressed by Slovenian citizens by non-democratic measures. But will you adopt further octromised laws in this country, or will you follow an octraistic constitution that will abolish democracy? On such a journey, one wonders if anything is possible. In a way, I hope that you are not yet so far away that you will go against the citizens of this country so that you will at least allow the elections to take place, then people, I hope, will then carry out this referendum that you intend to prevent now. I'm sure people will cool off. To actually have to politically commend your actions to challenge the Slovenians. Once again, you're literally saying that between 85, 90% of Slovenians are impatient, fascist, xenphobic. I'm asking you to remove these characteristics. Slovenians are democratic people, I hope that if you don't push them forward, they won't hurt anyone, any nationality, any race, they won't harm their hair. So far, Slovenians have not done this and I wonder if this challenge is meant to have evidence that Slovenians are such. For this reason, of course, I am surprised at the conduct of the Committee on Internal Policy and such decisions. The legislative and legal commission is being put, as I said before, as a propagandist. I hope that this decision will not, in fact, be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Comrade Sok, may I suggest that we perhaps restrict our discussions a little bit, the time is late to move on to the decision-making process. Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected minister, a coworker, a colleague and a colleague! As I myself, or as one of the signatories to the referendum, of course, after all these discussions that I am listening to here, especially from a number of fellow Members of Liberal Democracy and a united list, I should somehow feel guilty, I don't know, I understood this debate by my fellow Member Jakič, who you have greatly rewarded, if that was very good in this style, we are for rights, you are guilty, we are democrats, you are xenophobics, I don't know, we are wide and open, you are narrow and you are stuck. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so, this is no way to debate. So it is a shame and I personally understand such discussions to the greatest extent as a form of provocation and insult. So here we are actually defending some of our arguments, some of our own, but it is not appropriate to process ourselves in this way and with such arguments as we can actually hear here. Moreover, of course, it must be borne in mind that we are the opposition, that is, in a substantial minority. You will decide anyway, you have a sufficient number of votes and have us, I don't know, for some Members who do not wrong a group of people in this country, and who are not guilty of the injustices, even though I don't know how many times we have already said that we have been satisfied with the Constitutional Court's decision to execute this decision, but that we have not adopted it for such a law as you did, even though we have not taken into account the only or one amendment which was tabled by the opposition and which would have made these dilemmas to a significant extent clear and I will say later why I do so. The debate itself seems almost like a hair-like debate when we were here discussing whether the people at the referendum should decide whether or not to open or close trade on Sundays. The same debate was almost similar to that of hair, except that at the time it was that we were not for a free initiative to prevent a free economic initiative, but twice the case went to a constitutional court, and what was it? The Constitutional Court has, of course, attached this worthless opposition to this House, which does not understand what it wants, which is a criminal, which is insolvent and I do not know what it is. So, I expected that this would be an art for Parliament at the time. We had a referendum at the end. Most of the people who went to the referendum decided to shut down the stores. What happens? We have not yet considered the law in this House, despite the fact that the people in the referendum so decided and that the Constitutional Court also declared the referendum legitimate. And I am convinced that this time's initiative in the Constitutional Court will actually run into the same response and that the Constitutional Court will decide that in this situation, when we cannot agree on a policy and when the section on this issue is somehow divided, citizens and citizens should decide on it. It is also the largest form of democracy, a direct democracy. And here to take this opportunity for people, I don't know, to talk about not being able to make rights decisions when they're not deciding rights at all, but the law. For if the law in the referendum is rejected, the decision of the Constitutional Court, of course, remains and is, as the President of the Constitutional Court has stated in an interview, that she thinks that the law is not actually necessary, but that the decision of the Constitutional Court itself is sufficient. Here I listened attentively to these discussions and several times the words "human rights have no value" could be heard. I think that this has also come from a number of members of the Liberal Democracy, and in fact I congratulate them on this statement. But let's expand it. Let's see if we actually corrected in this country, I don't know, the injustices that one regime has caused for 50 years. This is where Mr. Minister sits. I asked him twice, and he answered me twice, and I say it again because I find it very painful because I know it happened because people tell it, people with names and names. They're talking about a mass grave at the Borl Castle, which is right next to my house. That's what they've been telling me since I can remember. Mr. Minister answered me here, it didn't happen, it wasn't, we investigated it with a metal detector, there's nothing in that place. And that concludes the debate. But of course, there is still great injustice. It hurts people, and dear Members, if you say that human rights do not have a price, then let us go ahead and record these great injustices once and for all and correct them. No one today demands anything other than that these places be properly and properly marked. And these, of course, are not the only injustices that are happening today in this love of our independent democratic homeland. When you voted on a new labour law, of course, today workers actually have fewer rights than they have ever had. They can lose their jobs, lose their income, lose their jobs, lose their jobs, lose their monthly income - are they not injustices? These are very big injustices. I am just saying this so that if we are thinking that human rights are so protected that prices are not set here, then let us look at the kinds of injustices and mistakes that are taking place in our country and always remain in this principled position, not just when it suits us. But if, of course, we do not fit in, and we can ignore, trample, and actually fail to correct any rights. I don't think I made the wrong choice when I signed this referendum initiative. Why did I sign this? For a simple reason. When the war on Slovenia began, one of the directives of the Ministry of Defence, which was issued to an electric company in Ptuj, was to shut down the power of a bird barracks. At that time, there was a commander at the bird barracks who was named Jurtel, but I don't know what his name was. As the workers of this company approached the transformer, which was on the opposite side of the barracks, they started shooting at these workers, and one of them was seriously injured. This one was written by Fras Boris and it's still today because of what happened there, disabled. Since they couldn't shut the power down, then - and I was told that at the time - this boss of the barracks threatened to shut down the power supply from a distance, threatening that that power company would be aligned with the ground if they didn't get the power, I don't know, within the next 12 hours. You can imagine the fear they experienced in this company. Then, of course, this man I named disappeared for a few years. Today, they call me these workers who are employed there, that this commander has Slovenian citizenship. Of course, the trial was also conducted during that time. In court, the case was without evidence, without sufficient evidence, he was forgiven and today has Slovenian citizenship. And because of such cases, which will now be, when this law, if adopted as you have intended, have happened, I myself have determined in the law and that citizenship is given not so much as through law to everyone and everyone, but that everyone has to ask for it and that the matter is dealt with from case to case. If that were the case, and if such a law were to be passed in Parliament, I am sure that all these debates would not be necessary and that no one would be able to report to anyone that we are going xenophobic to go, I don't know, to legalise and not correct injustices and so on. As long as, of course, such matters will be, I am sure, we have those who have signed this request for a referendum on this law, which is unacceptable to us, absolutely right, and I am sure that citizens and citizens will also be present at the referendum if it comes to it, and I believe that it will come to this small opposition or the 30th Members who have signed this request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Can I ask my colleagues to limit themselves to those arguments that may not have been clarified in the debate. Please, buddy Kacin. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u125	Thank you for your word, Comrade President. Today, my colleagues have asked me several times in the National Assembly what I am worried about if you want me to go to the National Assembly on purpose. And I answer each one in the same way. I am really worried about this debate today and the results of this debate, because I must say that if you look at it with the eyes of the average viewer, the listener, although now this part here looks empty, I must say that they are good. The deer was brilliant. He set the minister on fire here as well as a lot of people. The way people like it. But that seems extremely dangerous to me. This seems terrifying to me for a country that will become a member of the European Union in a few months. Earlier, colleague Jakič said he would be ashamed of himself as the chairman of the political committee of the Council of Europe. It's not a problem if any of us are ashamed. The problem is that we have to worry about the situation at home. This leads us into emotional distribution, into emotional determination and takes us away from rational debates about what our future really is. Now there are many of these cases, and everyone who discusses begins to talk about what has happened in the last decade or two decades, what kind of injustice has happened to someone. He's talking about how we haven't corrected the previous injustices, but he seems to me more and more to be manipulating what is happening here today, one great injustice to the electoral body, which is being smoked by a large part of the national assembly and being driven in some direction to be emotionally defined and achieved by some result that's going to give us a headache together. If we come to this referendum, if we are to identify ourselves on these issues in the way that this is suggested here, it seems to me that we are acting as part of the Western Balkans. Something like this would be normal for the countries that the West sees in the Western Balkans package. It discusses who was the liberator and who was not the liberator, who sacrificed themselves, and whether it is appropriate to send him to The Hague or not. I'm imagining, well, I had something to do with our independence, but it still gives me a headache. It seems to me that we are going in the wrong direction and that we are playing with ourselves with everything we have achieved in all these years and, above all, with our image in the European Union, I will say in Slovenia, with our external image. We imagine how good we are and how great we are, but the world will see us after this action and will then judge us in the way that Roman used to say about Gil-Robles. Yeah, that's what I'm really worried about. We just don't have to do this because we are in the European Union, and we really don't have to defend ourselves from any Southerners, from anyone who wants to hurt us. We don't need that. It kind of reminds me of a strange atmosphere. A few weeks ago we were with some colleagues in Latvia, and there everyone dreams of the Russians who want to become the majority who oppress them, who don't let them breathe, who moved them to Siberia, etc., and we also have some xenophobia against people who don't know enough Slovenian, who are awkward in their public appearances. And when I wondered what it was actually like to say here that this was an acceptable argument, that someone could understand and still think about what we were actually doing, I remembered the frowning that Minister Bohinc was on the mournful bench, and there was Mr Aleksander Todorovic, the president of the deleted society, who eventually leaked that awful sentence, something like that. I'm sorry if I don't quote 100%: "But in a country as uncivilised as Slovenia, I wouldn't be asking for citizenship," so somehow, he said. And at that moment, I was actually worried about those deleted because in the previous years, when we used other languages for many things in the previous, wider countries, we were more graphic. I remember a river like this saying, "Don't defend me, if he kills me his own, he will kill me my own." So the moment that Todorovic blinked at what he had bled, he did the greatest injustice to all these people, who had been erased. Yes, colleague Jerovšek, you too [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u126	There's no controversy. There's no controversy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u127	And you say a lot of things, but this man just said something that came up like a boomerang to everyone he's specializing. [[...]] [[...]] [[The voice from the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u128	There's no controversy. Please, there's no controversy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u129	And in this case, it seems crucial that we know in our judgements, we who decide today whether to go to a referendum or not, to separate between stupidity, the indiscretion of an individual who symbolizes these eraseds, and between the problems of those individuals who because of all that has happened to them and what has actually been established and judged by objective criteria, and therefore need to correct these injustices, whether we can protect the individual, not to the detriment of the madness spoken by someone on their behalf. Personally, I think that the operation of a society which has been wiped out at this time is counterproductive, that it is harmful that this society can do the most to erase itself, so that it can lay low for a few weeks or months and allow people to face the problem normally and to be rationally identified. Because now a lot of people in Slovenia, as I said at the beginning, are not defined rationally, but they are defined just so, very emotionally, and in the flock and against. Nobody cares what this is all about. It's important to be in the herd and say you're against it. And that's what's dangerous. It's a reptile that goes off and then it's harder and harder to stop. That is why I would say that all those colleagues who today seem to have performed brilliantly and you were liked by the viewers when they had the opportunity to watch this, but consider whether smoking in this direction is worthy or appropriate and whether it is too dangerous, Mr Bajuk. These are things. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u130	There's no controversy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u131	which are not [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u132	in the bench [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u133	are not so simple that they can be identified in such an emotional way. We need a strictly rational approach to this. Mr Minister has given us a strictly rational legal framework to which we must define ourselves and prevent feelings from doing so. These smart guys don't have much in common. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u134	Dr. Bayuk didn't compromise your position, so I can't give you my word for the replica. He mentioned him, but he didn't argue with his point of view. Please, let's be patient here. He didn't interfere with your position. Please, Comrade Jerovšek. I ask that you do not dispute within the bench, because, of course, you are putting the chairman always in shame, if he mentions anyone, this could be a procedural reason to get the right to a replica, but not to argue with him. Please, Comrade Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Just an explanation to Mr. Kacin. Too bad he's not already, and that's all I wanted to say to him is that there's actually no transfer since we've been discussing the issue of the European Constitution, that there's no transfer, at least in the vast majority, maybe you have a private channel. And there's no transmission.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u136	My friend Kangler has a word, the only one.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. It doesn't matter to me in this house whether it's a transfer or not. It would be more important to me if, when we adopted this legislation, we reached a political compromise within this House, within the National Assembly, when we adopted legislation and took into account some of the open professional issues that have arisen. In view of the veto voted by the Council of State in relation to the so-called technical law, the honourable Members and Members, I must say that I respect the state councils and this institution, that it is not neglectful to divide the national assembly now into one option, a strictly separate option that advocates the so-called technical law, and another option that has somehow collected 30 signatures. If the Council of State voted veto in the state world with a strong majority, then this technical law, respected colleagues and colleagues, is something dangerous. There are open political and professional issues. When I heard that the Council of State had given an initiative to debate in the Council of State and was also making decisions regarding the call for a confirmation referendum, I expected the Council of State to vote in some way. If even some Members have gone into the debate of some of the state councillors, and above all, I think the debate of the state councillor coming from the lawyers, Mr Ilca, has opened up some very important professional issues that we could not resolve at the veto when we vote. My opinion was, in the words of my colleague Kacin, who is causing such or other debates, who is he who is raising in some way, as colleague Kacin said that our elective body is emotionally responding to this issue. It is true that it responds emotionally to this issue that we have today in Parliament for one reason only. We have not easily gained our independence, our country, our independence and the human rights we have under the Constitution. And today we are not talking about the so-called constitutional decision in this debate. The constitutional decision must be respected. You can "smoak", a colleague, as much as you want, you can deny me or confirm me, but today we're talking about a so-called system law. Or technical law. A confirmatory referendum in accordance with all the rules can be signed for any law adopted by the National Assembly. There's no exception. Whether it's systemic is technical - no exception. Today, we will not decide whether or not to restrict human rights in accordance with a constitutional decision. Today we will decide whether to propose a referendum on the so-called technical law or whether Slovenian citizens support this law or not. The decision of the Constitutional Court shall be inviolable and shall remain in force. It's not a question, I stress again, it's not a question. And if there were a lot of wisdom, those who insisted on this law to the end could prevent these 30 signatures, could prevent constitutional review, could also prevent the upcoming referendum from reaching a political compromise on those open issues, such political issues and such professional questions as have opened up. I'm stressing again. If I had decided to sign the 30th, I would have to say in public here, because of Janez Janša or some of them, I have given this signature because of the care I have in me, because of the Slovenian state, because I care. If we are unable to find a political compromise and professional in this house, then our work and our activities in the National Assembly should be decided by Slovenian voters. If, honourable Members, behind our backs, some may discuss the electoral legislation behind closed doors past us, beyond the coalition, why they have not yet agreed on the issues of the deleted. In my view, this issue is much more important for this country than the question of the electoral system, much more important. They were unable to compromise on some of the professional and political issues raised by this technical law. On electoral legislation, however, they have found such a compromise - all the questions that some should have wanted them to legislate in this house. Once again, with regard to the confirmation referendum on any adopted law, we cannot argue in this national assembly: this law is contrary to the Constitution or the constitutional decision; this law can go to a referendum; this law cannot go. There is no exception, and today we are not talking about a constitutional decision, today we are talking about a law. I hope and I am sure that the Constitutional Court will also decide on this; and for now, I trust the Constitutional Court that it will decide on the basis of the expert opinions and professional questions that have arisen, not on the basis of political questions. Today, someone in this house makes it clear that some of us behave and do injustice to the Slovenian voters and that we "feed" - those we think again differently than some - in the western part of the Balkans, I think that this is an individual's assessment and that it is such a legitimate right, respected Members of Parliament, that you are sifting on those sides that, in accordance with the rules of procedure and all other regulations, you are judging the Constitutional Court by this request, both of us, those of us who have decided to collect 30 signatures in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and require a confirmation referendum for technical law. And if I, who I think otherwise as someone on the other side, belong because of this to the western part of the Balkans, of course this is a completely personal assessment. And all these feelings that have been expressed in this house today, all these eyewitnesses that are flying from some individuals, that it's already a pre-election campaign, are superfluous. All of this would not be necessary if we were all prepared to compromise together. You should expect those who insisted on this law that there is a high probability and the possibility of 30 signatures being gathered in the National Assembly. Even when you persisted in Kebra's law on artificial fertilisation, you could expect 30 Members' signatures to be gathered. And if only one article were to be changed in that law, today we would have a law in force. This is exactly the same thing. It is a pity that, personally, I regret that we have not heard the demands of the State Council when it voted veto, rejected the law, taken away the tools from all those who think and want to reach political peaks on this account, as some seem to have listened to open questions, and adopted such a law in the next month or month, which would be appropriate for the majority of the national assembly, a large majority. And it would be too much of this controversy, the political controversy, the professional controversy and all these open questions that we are discussing in this Chamber today. Once again, I stress that I respect your legitimate right to withdraw all business options regarding the assessment of the constitutionality of the requirement, and you must also respect our demand for 30 signatures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u138	My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Slovenia is a democratic state, and the people are sovereign in it, not the constitutional court, not the ruling coalition, not the LDS or anyone. We come from this because we think that marriage is bad, and because we understand the rule of law slightly differently - not against rights, but against such a law. In the debates I have, as far as I have been able to follow them, I see much more of the will to politicise than righteousness. And that seems bad for a matter as important as this. I have to say that I wanted to see a former Member of Parliament here earlier, colleague Iva Praise, I saw him alive at that counter, a little to the left, speaking to the left, and I think I would find stronger words than I will find with regard to a distinctly double game in this case. You know, that's what they used to say in the south, "now you see him, now you don't see him." If you see him, if you don't see him, you don't see him. When there's a political line, they appear erased when you're not willing. Not just deleted. Express duality. When the President is given a 'passenger', then he looks at Article 115 of our Rules of Procedure, which requires the consideration of other reasons, in this sense also financial reasons, a law is rejected where there is another will, it can come through such a law, which has not at all dealt with such an important aspect as public interest, on this subject, from a financial point of view. When we are, we are when we are gone. And to mention the third dimension of this duality or duality: one constitutional decision is worth dealing with here very quickly, one year does not come, some are respected, some are not. In order not to recall any further explicit duality on the subject of sensitivity in a referendum that has clearly expressed its will, and the Constitutional Court has made it even clearer and has given its decision and, as has already been said, has been bypassed by a change in the constitution, which is a less democratic act, such as a referendum, which is an expression of direct democracy and what we want the Democrats in this national assembly. I must say that I absolutely reject such an arbitrary concept of the rule of law, such a centrally run democracy, such domestic procedures, when it suits a person or according to the domestic word "pasha". And of course, I also have no choice but to try that the one who last can say a word about it, and does not show it to underestimate it, it is the people, it is the electorate and the electorate in this country, that they express themselves on such an important matter. It's not the first marriage I've seen, not the first one I've evaluated. It does not separate different categories, and such as the possibility that the Slovenian state should really pay some money to those who were explicitly or clearly against us. This has already been elucidated by other colleagues before me, nor will I deepen my arguments in this direction. I have already said about the financial implications that it is simply not the leadership of the National Assembly that has felt the need to take this criterion, commercially, Article 115, into account, and I cannot imagine that they would not know that this is the result of financial consequences. Pushing your eyes and putting your head in the sand is an ostrich policy that will cost us dearly. And what we've heard all this time about the first government, about Demos and so on! From the old cases, you wanted some to overtake the whole power of that time. With the president of the country at the head. In a special letter, President Kučan called on those who had lived with us not to be Slovenian citizens to decide what they would do. That's what he did. In no public appearance, not in this house, no place else has he addressed this issue, just as some of you have. This is also an interesting and important fact for me. Now we're here in a dictionary, and I'm very surprised by the Ombudsman's vocabulary, which is very political and we don't work in the spirit of what the Ombudsman should be doing. The guard should be paying attention to the whole thing, not to some line. I would say that either the first government or the then government, or Demos, or if you want the then congregation that passed the law on a proposal from the government, was more than generous, I don't know what else to do. At that time, we had the assumption that people would want to join or acquire citizenship and for those who did not want to regulate their status, or who went somewhere, but we do not know, not ever, or anywhere, or when they came back, because some came back after the stories ended when Milosevic finished something and something else happened. So the first government can't take the blame if they haven't made up their own minds. If there are cases of individual injustice, I will say again that it should be dealt with in accordance with the rule of law, which Slovenia must be. But I ask you not to generalise or run an electoral campaign in this way and not to talk about xenophobia because there is no basis for these matters. You have also seen proof of this with the Member of New Slovenia, Mamić, who is not Slovenian, and he has made a clear position on these matters. At least I'd like to hear some of these markings for this client. Please, let us be honest and just and save what is to be saved in a way that is proper for the rule of law. I think it's the only, in fact, opportunity left to ask people in a democratic way what I think about this matter. And to say that this democratic act of 30 signatories is questionable, to attribute to him the purposes that have not been expressed or written anywhere, is petty or very rude. And also what happened - I read three times because I could not believe that such an expression of centrally planned democracy, as our President Bajuk would say, could appear in the 13th year of Slovenian independence. So, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot read this decision of the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mistake. Listen, the politicians who are here in the fourth term - some cannot make such a mistake that they want to impose on the Constitutional Court what to send back. Listen, it's not a mistake, it's a condition, a spirit here, it's a state of the spirit of the lady and gentlemen. That's what I'm worried about so you can write something like that down. And what the LDS are trying to fix today in some way is an unprecedented farce. It is better to support this referendum than to joke in this way. And you'll see that voters and voters will be happy to do so. I, although I'm quite outside, have contact with the field and I tell you that people don't really understand this conclusion or understand it very well, but they don't. And I think they know what this is about because the last time someone said, does the people understand what this is all about? Let's not underestimate him! In this case, he knows exactly what's going on and who's forcing something and where it's going. So, I reject such a law, so vague, the consequences of which have not been seriously processed at all. However, I think that those of us who have signed this democratic call are in line with our constitution, but it is quite clear to us where all this matter, including additional politicisation, can fit. And I suggest you imagine what your insistence means for Slovenian politics and what ours means. I advise you to support the proposal for the referendum to be signed.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u140	Thank you very much. A replica of Mr. Peterlet's performance, Mr. Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague, Lois Peterle, all honor and glory, but if it happened to you that you signed such a bad law, an unconstitutional law, if you proposed it in the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, then let others make mistakes. It was a mistake, it was made quickly, I admitted it. I didn't even work alone, like you did then, and I'm going to say that I'm surprised by this discussion that's supposed to lead to someone being able to even believe once. And it repeats a story that repeats itself all the time during the consideration of this law. Those of you who have been guilty of these things are being attacked, but those who have been alerted to matters must be defended. I think it's the wrong world. I said that once before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u142	Thank you very much. A replica of the replica, exceptionally permitted, Mr. Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u143	Look, Mr Secretary of State Fatty, who is a lawyer, has explained this to the public, not the only one, many times. And now thunders against the people who have carried out the law, as it was adopted in this house, and has not experienced any attack in years, are now being politicized. As a constitutional judge for three and a half years, if I am not mistaken, he weighed his justice to this issue, but he was unable to make a decision and had a case in his drawer, and then he referred to others not to do so or to be with them. Ladies and gentlemen, this one is overpriced! Slovenia was given independence, while acknowledging a positive assessment of the relationship to human rights, if we did not come into an associated status, or into anything else, we have met the Copenhagen criteria. With this matter in mind now with one particular purpose, I ask you, if this is what we're talking about, why did the great righteous guilty man hold it in his drawer for three years if it was such an intoxicating matter in heaven? We can only explain this for political purposes, there are no others.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Andrey Bajuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I will not reopen the argument on the law that has been passed, nor on the amendment that we have proposed with the colleagues of the Slovenian Democratic Party to this national assembly, which would actually allow this matter to be resolved long ago. I must also draw attention to some of the implementations by the colleagues of this National Assembly, not at today's meeting, but a few days earlier, and also to the exercise of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia. I'll have to tell you because you haven't read this in Slovenian media. On 14 August, I repeat, on 14 August 2003, as President of Nova Slovenije, I held a press conference and made a statement on our views on this issue, which appeared after the decision of the Constitutional Court. I have made it very clear - although this has not been published, so now I must use this opportunity to explain to you - that we have already decided that we will and that we must respect the Constitutional Court's decision, and in particular I have called on the Constitutional Court to warn us that those people who lived among us and who have been the subject of certain injustices should not have any less rights than other foreigners. I added that New Slovenia will, however, advocate that we ensure that it has no greater rights than those of foreigners who have also been subject to all these laws. So, clear point of view. We have warned, and not only at the meeting, but on behalf of the Group of Members, our colleague Majda Zupan has pointed out the shortcomings of this proposal for a technical law; that she does not have what it should have, and this is an analysis of the financial implications and this requires Article 115. Of course, I am sure that Mr President of the National Assembly should not have made this proposal at all and should have rejected it, as he rejected a few days ago the proposal by colleague Jozet Tank. But it was quite an object and what we heard. I have very much before me, Madam President-in-Office, your words when you spoke on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group: they do not have the price of human rights. Nice words. I did not hear any other argument, but only later, after the decisive veto of the State Council, did we have to re-examine in this National Assembly, but you said again on behalf of Liberal Democracy - of course, once it was clear what was the position of public opinion in Slovenia - but you were talking about restrictions for these old ones. And not only you, even on behalf of the United List, have spoken in this regard, Mr Potrč. Well, they weren't such empty and crazy warnings, the ones on our side. Not only did we have the right and duty to point out respect for the Rules of Procedure, but this is really linked to serious problems. And, of course, once we have found that in this national assembly - not now, in the current composition - the national assembly has set the limit of human rights: 200,000 tolars for a murdered man or who was due to war violence - of course we have limitations, but we should not talk about it. And now that 30 Members have decided on the basis of the rights they have in the Constitution themselves and in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is totally unacceptable that I have to listen to such things as align our position with the worst criminals of human history. And this is not the first time in Slovenia! We already know how many times it's happened before. If you're not with us, then you're a Hitlerite. I won't accept it, and I firmly refuse it! And today, with all my responsibility, I personally demand that the Ombudsman, who has allowed himself to resign, because he is unable to represent values such as human rights in our country here and now. I demand that he resign because this is totally unacceptable, that we do not respect the rights conferred on us by the Constitution and that we will be marked with Hitlerians - I did not expect to experience this in 2003 in my country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u146	Dr. Bajuk, please, the Ombudsman is not our guest today and cannot answer your eyewitnesses on this occasion. I don't think it's right for you to refer them to him from this place.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u147	If you'll excuse me, you've been trying to get me out of this town just to use this opportunity to replicate. Of course, you only took from my performance what you liked, but the second time I spoke, I said first that the law, which is also the subject of a referendum opinion, has no financial implications. I have continued to implement, in so far as, by virtue of the Constitutional Court's decision to determine the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the beneficiaries of the claim for compensation have mechanisms to limit them by reason of the principle of proportionality and the protection of public benefits. My opening remarks were that this law had no financial implications.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u148	Mr. Yaša Zląbec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The main relativity and flaw of the referendum is that only "yes" or "against" can be answered. It's an extremely rough sieve. The referendum can quickly turn into purely mere particularism. As far as human rights are concerned, they cannot be resolved through referendums. On the contrary, the referendum is just or: but. Human will is not a pharmacy scale. She's fast and vengeful. Three years ago, a referendum on the right to biomedical assistance for single women fell smoothly. Where was the compassion for the fellow man then? On the contrary, he has a language of hatred. One powerful institution brutally beat its own right on the backs of these unfortunate women. It's a shame this side won't be forgotten. How many partisan referendums have there been? Very few electorates and voters came to them, which naturally limits their seriousness. There has never been a referendum in Europe on the abolition of the death penalty. Nowhere. And for a simple reason, because the referendum on the reenactment of the death penalty would certainly succeed. In the 1950s, death sentences were abolished in Western Europe. First the Germans and the Austrians, first of all, so they don't get picked up by justice for war crimes. In England and France, intellectuals fought the death penalty, led by Albert Camus, Kostler, and others. I recommend that Members read some books in this regard as well. In Yugoslavia, however, the death penalty was constitutional. Fighting the death penalty was politically dangerous. But the reptile was ripped off. The journal Mladina, ZSMS, Faculty of Law, from Vodopivčeva to Ljub Bavcona, etc. Slovenia abolished the death penalty at the end of the 1980s, so that even politics did not seriously resist. In the United States, which is a paradise on earth, they still have a death sentence, just for China. The Vatican carried out the death penalty at the end of the 1990s. There was no crime in the United States due to the death penalty. President Clinton froze the execution of the death penalty, Bush immediately began to smoke, although all psychologists and psychiatrists found that the execution of the death penalty caused an increase in violence and crime. The death penalty has no apprehensive effect, the death penalty brutalizes and in no way sensitizes. If it happened, and in fact a brutal crime could happen, the Slovenian public could demand the re-implementation of the death penalty. It would be a real possibility for the referendum to reintroduce the death penalty in Slovenia. In this House, I see quite a lot of people who would be happy to raise their hand to reintroduce the death penalty. In America, in the 19th century, it seemed that slavery would not be able to eradicate anything. Little wife, Harriet Beecher Stowe wrote a book called Uncle Tom's Box. President Lincoln said she did more than a thousand divisions against slavery. But as far as our heroes are concerned, the greatest hero has turned into a leader who, in a different way, marks anyone who thinks otherwise as a national traitor. But that's what we fought for?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Dorian Marshich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I am speaking mainly because of the fact that today's debate, and also in the previous discussions on this subject, there has been a comparison of how this is regulated in some Estonian countries. Today we have even heard that the European Community even approves of the solutions they have in Latvia in Estonia. I don't want the public to get the wrong impression about what colleagues, especially the opposition, said. In 1991, Estonia and Latvia both adopted legislation in the field of citizenship, which provided for only those who had citizenship in 1940 and their descendants. Not all others have been granted citizenship, these have been practically so-called non-citizens since then. Nevertheless, these non-citizens in these two countries were allowed to receive a passport and their children could immediately become citizens. The consular offices have even provided these non-nationals with a passport with all the services and services that an ordinary citizen may also have. It is also true that 67% of these non-citizens wanted to become citizens of both countries, but not the rest. In one of the interviews that I had during my visit to these countries - I mean Latvia above all - and the records that can be found in the reports of the individual commissions, or the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, which also observes, of course, respect for human rights, and probably also in what report of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly and the European Community, it is also possible to find information that this fear of the fact that it will happen to us alone, that there will be certain individuals who consider that they have been wronged, suing the country for such acts is not an isolated case. Slovenia would not be an isolated case. It is in Estonia that Mrs Tina Intelman, who is the Estonian Under-Secretary for Political Affairs, says that the actions of the Russian representatives are also taking place with them, particularly because of the discriminatory behaviour of the country in the field of citizenship. I will not mention what, even under the pressure of the European community, in these two countries from 1991 until the moment they both become members of the European Community, in these countries for the Russian minority - in Estonia almost for the Russian majority - they have done. All of this was practically incomprehensible in 1991. Reintegration programmes, naturalisation following reduced procedures, which, of course, cost both of these countries something. Estonia had to meet the Copenhagen criteria for minority protection. And the current situation, as they do, is always subject to criticism by the European community. The story isn't over here yet. The people of the Baltic States certainly do not like Russians for known historical reasons. However, such human rights-related issues have never been allowed, at least according to my data and not according to my knowledge, by changes to legislation that allowed these minorities more rights than they had in 1991. I am interested, my fellow Members, in particular those who represent our country in the bodies of the European Community, how you will defend these procedures, how you will defend the referendum on fundamental human rights, if we know that the European Commissioner for Human Rights in his report on respect for human rights in the Republic of Slovenia has mentioned this issue and even provided guidance on how Slovenia should comply with the Constitutional Court's decision as soon as possible, and with the appropriate law in the shortest possible way to remedy this injustice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u153	[[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] replied that because he acted as a Democrat and therefore supported the proposal for a referendum [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] Of course, this answer would be quite welcome, legitimate and meaningful if it were not for such a proposal or if it were not for this law, which is in this case, I think for the first time in the period after independence, specific. [[...]] The Constitution lays down the conditions for the invitation to tender for the referendum and at the same time restricts them at the principal level. And at this very point where these conditions are limited, 30 Members have opened this question. I think it would be the first case for citizens and citizens to decide on the content already regulated by the Constitutional Court in a constitutional decision. The proposal for a referendum means, after such an understanding, the non-trust of the Constitutional Court. It also means deleting the role of the Constitutional Court and deleting the principle of the division of power, at the same time, in my understanding, also denying the Slovenian political regime. The Institute of Referendum today, I think it's dangerous to turn into some kind of weapon against the rights of marginalized groups. And the law that people are now supposed to decide on is the first, of course not entirely, not an integral step towards repairing if I very gently use the vocabulary packages made by the former authorities. And just the fact that the Institute of Referendum is used as some kind of threat to the rights of certain groups of people is talking about facing some kind of intolerant political climate. That is true, I can only repeat this by quoting some of the words expressed today, which have backed this intolerant climate. Today we have heard that we are talking about people, that the law speaks about people, and that even at the referendum we should decide about people who are: lepers who are speculators, who are cheaters, who have killed and possibly will be spitting on laws that are erased and at the same time erased and simultaneously erased. We have spoken and heard that Slovenian voters are foolish, that the people who are touched by the law are those who have bloody hands. I think it is undignified that I continue to repeat what is unworthy of this space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Kelemina has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Look, since we have to finish before midnight, because if it doesn't, it all goes down, I think you're all aware of it, I'm actually giving up this debate. However, there has been a great deal of concern on your part right now, and also fear on your left, because you have found that the proponents have, somehow too culturally, debated too patiently. This began to worry you so much that you didn't know where to find the words to provoke the matter, to create some terrible controversy in the National Assembly, and that people could see what kind of conflict was going on between us. No, you're not going to see this, I'm sorry. And obviously this is now the great fear, the great concern that citizens will see that we are not cultivating any intolerance against anyone, but we are just defending some of our rights, constitutionally, commercially, what we have to draw attention to the mistakes that this authority is making, and thereby punishing our people, our citizens workers, entrepreneurs and so on, that your stupidity that you are doing must pay you with money. Because that's the biggest problem for you to think that money is getting in this country by collecting taxes. Because many people do not know on your side - I will not name them - who have never in their lives created one tolar added value by their physical work or by anything else, but by speaking and so on. There's a lot of people like that, living off the taxpayer's money from the cradle on, and I'm not gonna list it. But we're sensitive to these things because we know how money is made, and we're not prepared to keep burdening our people, our workers, our entrepreneurs, to pay for these stupid things you do. Just remember, since the bank's ownership, the hardware store, the bills will still come back -- in short, there's a lot of it. But I'm saying we have to finish before midnight, so I'm canceling the debate and - thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am extremely pleased that the Slovenian rule of law is working very well. Everything about this works exactly as it has to be. The law was passed, this law was implemented. The Constitutional Court found that the law was unconstitutional, that the then authorities had made a mistake and had repealed it. The Constitutional Court requires the National Assembly to correct this error, and the National Assembly is correcting this error. Everything is as it must be. We are voting on a procedure law, such as the 30-member group signing and requesting a referendum, the Internal Policy Committee is proposing a constitutional assessment. It can't be any nicer, it's all the way it has to be. And there's nothing wrong with that. A perfectly legitimate right is for 30 Members to request a referendum on each law, on every matter that we accept here. And it is perfectly legitimate that the Committee on Internal Policy or anyone else, as it says, proposes to the Constitutional Court for its assessment. No problem. I'm worried about something else. I am concerned that people will not know what they will talk about, and I am not sure if there will be a referendum and I sincerely hope that there will be no referendum, that people will know what they will talk about, and I am not sure that people do not think that they will decide on something else at the referendum, which is the result of the work done so far in this National Assembly, in press conferences, in media performances, etc. We've made an impression on people, and that's why we have so much climate in this country today that it's something else that's actually going on. We are still talking mainly today about citizenship, which has nothing to do with this thing. We are still talking today about the financial consequences that this law and what we have adopted and what the Constitutional Court has decided will cause. The financial consequences will be, if, when the country's error arises, not this law and not this constitutional court. This Constitutional Court found that the then government, the then congregation, and those who made a mistake. And that will be the result, and that will be paid if it pays, net, which we decide today. These are things that need to be clearly and loudly said, clearly and loudly, that when we talk about compensation, no one knows what these compensations will be. This will have to be proved in every single case in court.I will not repeat, today, Minister Bohinc has made absolutely everything that needs to be said about it, and therefore, of course, there is no debate where it would prove that it is and that it is wrong, because it has been listed quite clearly as it must be: yes, there has been injustice to people who did not want anything other than to be foreigners in this country and have the rights of foreigners in this country. And we "paint" all the time, why someone didn't want citizenship and why they didn't want it. Yeah, he didn't want it. We have a bunch of Slovenians in Germany, in Sweden, I don't know where everyone who doesn't want to be Swedish and German and we're proud that they don't want to be. And I'll tell you, we'd start shouting and screaming if some Swedish or some German did what our new country did. We'd start screaming and screaming and demand international judgment and I don't know what! Madam President, I would like to ask, Mr Kelemina has given up the debate, and apparently it is not to survive this way. Maybe we should give him a little word if he wants to say something. So, it's things that are perfectly clear, so far it's all legitimate, all I care about is this thing, that if there's a referendum -- hopefully there won't be -- let me say again: people, given the manipulation that's happened now and that's happening today -- to a little bit less, I have to say -- they won't know what they're deciding. And from the discussions we heard, it was also a feeling and a feeling of hope that people would decide something else at the referendum to show what they thought about what they thought about the Constitutional Court decision and what they thought about compensation and what they didn't know. Although the government has clearly written, the legislative and legal service has written very clearly. Now, whether someone likes it or not, that's how it is. That human rights cannot be the subject of a referendum decision, that is to say, it is clear that the referendum decision on a Constitutional Court decision is very controversial and so on. After all, you can all read it. Calls for a lynching, which were also about calling from this place for someone to step down, because it reminds us that we live in a civilized country, that we live in a country that has clearly separate things, who does things. And I am very pleased that we have Hanzka, who is, very pleased that we have Hanzka, who is because he is a function that has moral authority and has to come to terms with such things. Our problem right now is we don't have enough Hanzkov. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Madam President. The lady from the Ministry that the Minister left is sorry [[...]] Ladies and gentlemen, I could almost say in a biblical way: it is good for us to be here. Why? Today, we have heard more about human rights than we have heard about all those years before and certainly more than ever before in the congregation. And those of you who have had the privilege of sitting in them will be able to confirm that. However, before we go this way, I will mention to my young colleague, Mr Jakic, that I also have this report, which is full of things to which the European Ombudsman reminds you. These, of course, are not mentioned, but you could also imagine what this legal country is, which it also criticises. If this is true that the government has come to the world to talk about us, to talk about us, to talk about us, then this has been very well manipulated and from your position you can certainly do so. I don't blame you, but whoever takes this to the European Parliament will also be very interesting to know what will happen there. In addition, there are few things, such things as the European Union's integration into. And here we know, unfortunately it is. But we know that. Okay, then let me go back to human rights. There's still something wrong in this room. And wrong is the spirit that sometimes translated this congregation. And then you talk about strangers, about those we hate, and so what do you know about them? [[...]] Nothing. Because you've never lived in a society that's democratic and can respect different. You lived in a country where you wrote off half the people. Yeah, it was there. And then Mr Potts says, if I quote postwar killings, he says, be quiet for once -- it wasn't his word, but a little bit of my own way -- be quiet about it already, because we apologized. Well, you see, that's the current standard for committing crimes. He'll apologize to you, and everything will be fine and fine. You can apologize a thousand times, and you will not achieve anything with this because you have not corrected any wrongs, but you have also done other things. Good. Look, this isn't about "disputing" the Constitutional Court. Where are you going? The Constitutional Court was right! However, the government did not know this or did not want to do it because it had its political motives. We'll see about that in a few years. A few years from now, we're gonna see this, and, of course, I'm probably not gonna be here on earth anymore, but you're gonna be able to come to the colleagues who are here today, and they think that's the nicest thing that can happen to those deleted. The truth is, these injustices need to be corrected, they need to be investigated, they need to be corrected in a manner that is proper. You've never been used to fixing any wrongs before. None! And you still don't know her today. You'll probably be on what you'll do to erase what you've learned. I hope so. You see, each one of us has to meet himself sooner or later. Well, some, those who have lived in a different climate in a different philosophy, may have met with themselves, and now you have this at your disposal: either to enforce it or to continue manipulating one or the other. Let's think about this thing for a second! It's probably possible to speak to each and every one of you in person, but not in general. That's not because we're different. We're also "described" to you, and no one has ever thought of talking about human rights. We are accusing you of not being able to use human rights when I was erased - yes, I have been erased for many years - and we are still deleted today because you are using the methods that you used to use in the previous regime. And you think it's all yours, and you think that this law, which you're screwing for any reason, has to go through because you proposed it. As I've said many times before, there's no pluralism whatsoever. Look, I totally understand the people who got into trouble when we were on our own. For some, it was a very great tribulation, some were able to turn around, others were unable to turn around, and others did not want to. Because this has to be sorted out and distributed fairly what was taken away from them. But what is not fair is not what you are looking at under political criteria today, it is just to determine exactly what happened and then to correct it. However, if the government does not want to respect the Constitutional Court in the sense of making such a law and presenting it, where everyone could say together, well, injustice must be corrected and corrected. We may not be completely united, but this is the kind of thing we should be talking about. But the government doesn't want this on purpose - why, I'll leave it to you. Look, we all have the same motive - to give these people what they're good at. But what they're doing. But not that, Mr. Secretary, and no one else can tell them what's going on. They say they're doing it because it's all been established. Good. And I think we're people here who might know a thing or two to judge. And trusting the interior minister is fatal. I used to say that you can never trust the Minister of Finance, and that's the pure truth that I've experienced all over the world. And so, Mr. Secretary, and perhaps you will save your honour if you resign. Okay, this medicine you're offering us is bad, it's full of poison, and that's why we're rejecting it. But as long as I live, I will fight for these people to get justice, but I want to know who they are, what they've been doing, where they've been and when. So we have a common ground, but the arrest is the wrong one you're proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u160	My friend Jakich, the replica. I think my colleague Bernick mentioned you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u161	Dr Bernik mentioned me in the debate when he called me, of course in a way I understood in the undertone that in whatever way I was involved in drafting the report of the European Commissioner for Human Rights, Gil-Robles was looking at this. Of course, I wasn't involved. Mr Gil-Robles is a European recognised gentleman who walks through the Member States of the Council of Europe and, of course, reports very objectively on the state of human rights, and here you are right, it is true. From this context of its decisions and recommendations, I have selected only those relating to deleted ones, where the conclusions of the Committee of Ministers stress that it is necessary to ensure that the situation of deleted residents is immediately settled in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court. In fact, Mr Gil-Robles - what you've been telling me I've ripped out of context - has also pointed out other human rights violations in the Republic of Slovenia. These relate in particular to Roma, the integration of indigenous and non-automatic smaller nationalities. I translate from there, and you will follow in paragraphs if I even mention anything about such an hated ombudsman, which underlines the non-realisation of denationalisation. [[...]] It highlights backlogs in the courts, talks about strengthening the integration of refugees into society and, of course, talks about trading in white goods. Of course, Dr. Bernick, it would be very ugly to hear that the criticism of someone who criticizes us from the outside is being responded in a way that is manipulated. I think it is not and should also protect the institution of the European Commissioner for Human Rights, who sometimes says something we do not like. And in this context, I have also said that I understand the hardship you have, Dr. Bernik, in New Slovenia, when you stress this Europeanism on the one hand, and on the other hand, on the deleted and on the mosque you want to decide on the referendum and, of course, to interfere with the referendum on constitutional rights, such as the right to freedom of association, the right to freedom of religion, the right to freedom or equality of religious communities, etc.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u162	A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u163	Thank you very much. This discussion, unfortunately, goes far beyond what was mentioned in the launch as a technical problem and you will remember that I have protested very much against it. For reasons of matter regulated over time, however, it has also been shown that this term is inadequate because of the problem of deleted and even when we are talking about a specific part of this decision, the 8th point, despite all of this, much more than we are currently discussing in this law, whether it will go to a referendum without the constitutionality of the Constitutional Court being judged by the Constitutional Court, or whether it will go with this traveller. In a way, it is difficult to discuss what would be, what is behind all this manoeuvre, because in this Chamber I miss the first-signed one under this initiative, Mr Janša, who could also say something about it, and with others I do not think it makes sense to discuss it. If he's going to trust his colleagues, then he's chosen a better option. He left us to argue about it while he was supposed to play golf in Mauritius. That's what it means. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u164	It's not essential. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u165	This means that he, I believe, is the only smart thing to do, but that means that we have a situation where we're not actually solving for the first time the problems of someone who isn't willing to solve them. From this I would like to tell you that there are also different options for the dilemmas presented in this Chamber and presented on this initiative to be decided. But I believe that without its first-signed leader this cannot be done. I told the board yesterday that every law could be passed in constitutional review. That when there are, I will say, special circumstances, it is also possible to request immediate suspension of the implementation of the law. With this law, all those signatories, perhaps even someone else, who is not 100% in all of these things, as is the case, would be able to verify whether these arguments are sustainable or not without the use of the instrument of the People's Initiative. It's very simple. I don't know if it's technically possible at this point that people who claim to have an immensely good will, that without a lot of "spatter," by reducing their passions, they take it forward, withdraw their signature and allow this law to be judged in a constitutional court. As for the matter of the matter governed by this law, this would not be the first time. I think it's at least a third situation when we're solving this problem. Mr. Potts says fifth, he's got an exact count. I thank him, and at the same time I'm correcting myself if this one - I said good luck, at least a third. But whatever. Of course, this manoeuvre will by no means succeed, and the answer to why it will not, will not work until Mr. of Mauritius arrives. Then, of course, he will send other questions and other subjects into the fire. Look, if we're going to the things we're talking about, it's kind of the easiest way to live up to the belief that we can all be right. That there is relativism in one of the things that has already been said here. This relativism is, I'll say, a calm position, because it can legitimize any position we may have. Finally, it also holds us back to a measure of happiness in expressing political views so that we can defend such extreme positions. But even when we speak with confidence in our rightness, we must count on others to look at us, to be judged by others, to be judged by others, to be not definitive, to be just as relative, to be watched by an environment that does not directly affect our immediate decisions. That he is here, I will say, this many times-quoted ombudsman, for whom everywhere in the world they want, above all, not to be friendly to the authorities in order to draw attention to the mistakes of authority. If what was happening now had happened 15 years ago happened here, then we would have been in a different formal situation of higher-a-vis on 1 May of the following year and so on. This relativism is not absolute in that it gives everyone who says something even the final right. So I think it's kind of necessary, I'm certainly not sure that this is useful, certain things to explain. Irma Pavlinič Krebs explains them in a very patient way and she gets a lot of ridicule, because in the end, no matter what everyone gives her right, they say, it's true, but it's not so attractive, it's other things, it's not the explanation that covers everything. But look, if any explanation would help anyone, then I would like to tell my colleague Sok that in the case that he spoke about when it came to the question of someone who acquired citizenship, this is not an example that would be regulated by this law. That, in some way, when we are still cautious about words, such as the proximity of Nazi, fascist, communist, and I do not know any other ideas - I say, for now, with caution, situations will force us to compare language, mechanisms and so on, I would point out that this should be the case with my colleague Rupar. He said how many of the signatories at least there are those who have no such ideas as to what we can conclude from this is different. But that's not even it. I'm also kind of worried about the situation when we're actually trying [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Mr Kelemina, I am concerned about a lot of things, and to happiness I was usually more concerned about others than I was about myself; this has always been obvious to me, and it is not too much to boast about. It's not an excessive virtue, that [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u166	Please, for peace in the hall. Please, Comrade Jakič, you don't have a word for it. You know that. My friend School is the only one who has a word. My friend Jakich, please. Comrade Skull, he has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u167	Thank you, Mr President, but I have no problem running simultaneously with the different people here, I am prepared enough in this subject and I am not disturbed, but it will be harder to follow.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u168	It's the same for everything. Comrade Skull, please finish your thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u169	Okay. I hope that Mr Kelemina will hear that too, who, by the way, has given up the debate and I am afraid that he has also given up listening. So, whatever. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u170	Please, for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u171	In this debate, which we are leading and where we are looking for various reasons for what we have found, it is still true to say that, in my opinion, this situation has also arisen, because the illegal deletion, as the Constitutional Court has found, has occurred, not so much because we are trying to do so now. And that's what you should say. Mr. Kelemina, if you'd like. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u172	Mr. Skull, you have the floor. Comrade Kelemin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u173	You know, as I am pleased that Mr Kelemina is interested in some discussion, he is not always. All I wanted to say was that between the situation created during the era and the situation arising from the correction of injustices, there was a long time in which other governments and other professions did not show up. In this sense, of course, it is true to say that this is not only the problem of Peterlet's government, but also of later teams that have been very clumsy in repairing it. This may not be something anyone likes, but unfortunately it is. Nor can this be resolved by making sure that anything is possible if deleted and their society is not so small. I don't know who would be so patient to wait years and years for a constitutional court to put a case on the agenda. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u174	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u175	Who would be so patient as to wait for one amendment to the law, and the second amendment to the law, and now we are before the third amendment of the law on this subject that I am not talking about other things, but let us leave it. In ten years, there has been enough silence, enough, I will say, shame also by the various involved, even the famous profession, according to my opinion, has not been able to go through the question raised by them from the position of one government, the second Parliament, the third time he has judged in the disputes that have taken place in various situations. From this point of view, it is true to say that Mr Todorović, in addition to what Mr Kacin quoted, has said something else. Mr Kacin recalled that, for some reason, Todorovic did not want Slovenian citizenship. I could also react to Mr Rupar's position yesterday, which he does not want, and he is a Member of this Parliament. But Mr Todorovic said something else in this show, in which I myself participated, before: that he did not expect the country that emerged from the conflict for the defence of human rights to treat people in this way and thus violate human rights. That he fully trusted - then, I mean, he said by name and Bavčar and Janša, and perhaps Jelko Kacin, that they were the people who put it first. So much should be said because these kinds of discussions also mean some Pilateal washing of the deadlines for things that society of deleted persons cannot do, which can only be done by the State Assembly at this time. So these are the things that open. I regret that this moment is not in Mr Peterlet's Chamber, which also says that it is not against justice, but against the law. If it's not against justice, but it's against the law, there's a way I've talked about before. I agree with Mr Bajuk, who, unfortunately, is not in the hall at this time, who said that the speech that uses these syntagmas, that whoever is not against us, as he said, is a Hitlerese, is dangerous. But I would like to remind Mr Bayuk that 15 minutes earlier Mr Peterle had used the same syntagmo - that he said he did not agree because it was those who were against us. I could also involve Mr Bernik in this argument, whose pain can be understood and where, for years, I can say that at the time that I was president of the National Assembly, we were obviously not successful enough to manage those things that had not been arranged for years and years so that they could issue death certificates. But so much will my colleague Bernick have to admit that there were not enough people he knew at the time in the nomenclature, who have tried so many times and so hard to make it work out - even if not. But what I'm saying is that I can't understand that in this situation, when it's in our hands, when it's in our hands, when it's in our hands, when it's in our hands, when we're moving things forward, we're working in a way that we're going to explain to people -- one that it's citizenship, the other that it's not citizenship, and so on. And that, believe me, is going to be very difficult, no matter how much we all say, for the truth. Because if Mr. Peterle says, let's say that those who wanted to settle their status had all the options, then, of course, that's not true. There were basically two options at the time: one option was to ask for the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia - and we are not discussing this right now - and another option was to choose or become foreigners in Slovenia. There was no such possibility, and we're talking about it. And since that was not possible, someone later could have done it the way he did, and today we have problems. But if I finish with what Mr. Bernick said, what's going on with them? Nor can there be a particularly big discussion about this. This is one of the things that was written before this problem arose and it is very simple: "Foreigners in Slovenia have in accordance with international treaties all the rights guaranteed by the Constitution and laws, except those which they have by constitution or by law only the citizens of Slovenia." - all of it. And by erasure, we took those rights away from them or took them away. And that's the whole story, and that's, I'll say, all the responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u176	First of all, that there would be no misunderstandings, since formerly colleague Kelemina mentioned that by 24:00 hours the decision had to be taken, I had asked the legislative and legal service to provide an explanation as to how I knew how to proceed. Because if that were true, then I would suggest that the debate be limited and that we decide within this time limit. Well, the opinion I have before me says that the decision will be timely even if, say, we miss a few hours. So there's no problem with that. So I don't have to cut it under this business option. However, I would suggest that we slowly conclude this discussion in order to decide. I think all the arguments were made. Even Comrade Battelli asked for the floor, then we'd move on to the decision. Please. You had a replica? Mr. Kelemina, you were mentioned, I know that, so I must give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Well, I'm glad that maybe there wasn't a direct transmission now that people in Slovenia didn't see it because they probably wouldn't fall asleep a little. I would just like to say that I am interested in a lot of things or that I am interested in everything that is actually being discussed in the National Assembly. However, I have already given up on this authority and, I could say, hatred and xenophobia against the opposition, I have long since given up, Mr Školč, a long time ago. I've said a lot of good things that need to be settled in this country, but there's no hearing about it. It is not and will not be, as long as such ladies and gentlemen rule, probably not.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u178	Even Comrade Battelli, then I will conclude the debate and we will proceed to the vote. I'm asking all my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. Please come to the hall. Please, Comrade Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will say immodestly, but still, and I am very grateful to them for what they have said. I've had some of their thoughts written down here. Jože will probably forgive me that we were present at the time of the adoption of the self-sustaining legislation. We were also present, for example, in one of the mandates when we dealt with as many as four draft laws to take away citizenship from people who were citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Fortunately, those experiments failed. Now I am not surprised at this almost complete absence of the ability to see or identify my own image that some debaters are showing today, which is extremely worrying. The fact is, it is very difficult to spell out what was done at the time. We have a category of tourists, for example, or people transiting through Slovenia, among foreigners, don't we, we have a category that has a temporary residence and our legislation as all the laws of modern countries knows the institution as well as a permanent residence. Now, these people, without any regulation in the Republic of Slovenia specifically demanding this from the state administration, have been deprived of everything that comes from the status of permanent residence. They were deleted from the records of foreigners who had a permanent residence in Slovenia. That's what we're trying to do right now. I'm embarrassingly saying it's 11 and a half years from now. The dictionary of the Slovenian book language says that chauvinism is a belief of the multiplicity of its own nation and an hateful attitude towards another nation. But xenophobia is hatred, resistance to strangers and strangers. What happened at the time is, in fact, not covered in these two definitions. And the fact that someone advocates what happened at the time, now - how can this be defined? How would the signatories of this initiative for the referendum define this action, this argument, the meaning of how they would define it? I know the word, it floats or it weighs in the air, even in the afternoon and all evening. I won't say it. In short, it's a mixture of what's unspoken and a large dose of hypocrisy. Let's do this, please. I call on it to make it impossible, however, for Slovenia to get off the train of civilization.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u180	Good. I'll close the debate. We'll move on to a decision. Please pay attention in the Chamber, we will decide first - we have a proposal to request that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decide on the content of the request. We have a proposal for a decision, or amendment of two parliamentary groups, which we will first decide on, the explanation is sought by my colleague Lavrinc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u181	Two parts would be in my explanation. Check it out first. I'm not as sure as some of them were how the Constitutional Court will decide. But it seems to me that it's such a security guard after all. And finally, that's why we have her there. And if we had warnings from the left and the right, it would in some way be very irrational and unwise, but also for the opposition, after all, not to support it. And it's not true that this is going to mean any delay, because we all know that the time frame for deciding on such a question is only 15 days. That's the first one. Secondly, I would like to say that I am asking and asking that this amendment be adopted on a proposal for a decision, and once again that I am the debates that have been put forward and the criticism expressed on this proposal for a decision has been correct in that part; therefore, that the decision is not a good one. I was surprised, though, that so much talk was devoted to this particular conclusion. So it seemed to me that they no longer had the text and that something needed to be used to attack this kind of thinking. And given that the conclusion or correction of this decision was prepared very early in the morning, it is understandable that after a sleepy night, we had strained our species and prepared a little more digestive to say so. That's what I think is right to support. And once again, I'm going to deny all the clues that anything has been done, I don't know, in some spirit of the previous one-party system or something.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u182	I think all things have been explained, but my colleague Peca - you have an explanation for the vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u183	Respectable present. This is the first time I've come here on purpose today. In the Slovenian legal order, it is considered that ignorance of the law is harmful and, if a person, as a parable, does not correct the amount at the post, he will be liable to sanctions. The fact is that Slovenia has decided on such a legal order and there should be no exceptions. And it is also a fact that self-named "deleted" should have the opportunity to harmonise their status. Of course they didn't do it. According to our assessment, according to the Slovenian National Party, the referendum represents the highest possible form of decision-making within our country. It also follows from the decisions of the National Assembly that this National Assembly did not find a wise enough decision to resolve this issue in the long run. Individuals who make up the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in that sufficiently qualified form of authority have made a decision. You have made a decision without support, such as the opposition or some members of government parties. And according to our assessment, we should ensure in such cases that this national assembly, the legislative branch of power, does not find enough wisdom to solve the individual case to decide the people in such cases. The people have already rejected the decision of this National Assembly several times, suggesting on the one hand the ignorance of this National Assembly, i.e. the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, as to the issue of citizens and citizens of our country. Members of the Slovenian National Party will support, as so far as possible, all the efforts that will lead to a greater consensus on this issue. For the fact is that we do not find enough wisdom in this national assembly to decide on such a matter. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, supported by the Group of Members, supported by the United List of Social Democrats, the Liberal Democracy and, unfortunately, by DeSUS as well as by Minister Bohinc, decided not only to allow individual future new voters to stay on an equal footing, which would not be a problem, but, of course, a priority stay in this country. We have always sought to establish a constitutional order in the Slovenian National Party. And one of the fundamental principles of the constitutional order is that ignorance of the law harms. And like this right or fact applies to Slovenians and Slovenians in this country, it should apply to all those we are talking about in this case. In the National Party, we will support all those efforts to ensure that people decide on this issue, given that politics has not found sufficient wisdom or policy has taken a decision that will be repaid as negative in the short and long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u184	My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u185	Thank you very much. In this national assembly, we have, of course, everything we have already heard, which is the basis of the legislative and legal service. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u186	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u187	her opinion is respectful, as she says: She concludes that the request was submitted to the law which was adopted, notes that it has been tabled by law by certain applicants, notes that it is based on the construction that 30 Members have signed under it. [[...]] The Legislative and Legal Service shall find that the request has been lodged in accordance with Article 14 of the Law. It notes that the issue has been clearly raised and notes that, in the framework of constitutional case law, there is undeniably an assessment of the fact that the National Assembly by law can change the way in which the decision of the Constitutional Court is implemented. I respect the assessments and conclusions of the legislative and legal service, the will of the people and the referendum as the highest possible form of decision-making. Otherwise, why fear the will of the people, because the people have chosen you to the greatest extent, if you are their representatives, they will say at the referendum as you think. But I don't think that's gonna happen. Like my colleagues from the Slovenian National Party, let the people decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Can we make a decision? Please, Comrade Jelinčič, explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[You read it, too.]] I've said a lot of things today, and I could say it all over again. The fact is that Mr Bohinc was a member of the United List of Social Democrats with his party The United List of Social Democrats was the main engine and driving all this anti-Slovenian or Slovenian citizens towards targeted action. I hope and I want him to get paid. Already in 1991, when he established a Yugoslav-led party and fought against Slovenia's independence, he should be paid back, but it seems that the United List of Social Democrats and the Liberal Democracy reward him with ministerial positions. It's a rabble in the world. We don't see anything like that in Upper Volta or Burkina Faso. Maybe in some small private country somewhere in Africa's corner log, but I don't think there's people out there who are working against their own country or their own country. I hope people find out who's pulling them into the abyss and who's going to swim out of this abyss with thicker pockets and more money in their pockets. I am convinced that these are some of the Liberal Democrats and some of the United List of Social Democrats. I just want that bone that you put in your mouth to get stuck in your throat.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u190	The National Assembly will now decide on the amendment of two parliamentary groups. Please, Comrade Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u191	Mr. President! Several times already - I regret - but I must warn you that you have already allowed yourself to be insulted, directly or indirectly, by foreign countries, several times today, and this is not allowed in the National Assembly. If there is one honest man in Burkina Faso or in Upper Volta, then that must not be allowed.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u192	Comrade Rokavec, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u193	Thank you for your word. I will vote against the proposal for a decision of the home working body, and also against both amendments in particular from this point of view, because I think it is inappropriate for the Constitutional Court to ask itself whether a specific referendum initiative, which we - 30 signatories to this referendum initiative to call for a subsequent legislative referendum - has been called upon by the President of the National Assembly to give an opinion to the Constitutional Court, because our express intention was that a decision of the Constitutional Court should be resolved within one law should be resolved in a comprehensive manner. However, for the first time in history, the government, as well as the majority in this National Assembly, wants to secircate the Constitutional Court's decision to resolve it with two laws. It is unacceptable, according to our assessment, that a completely different practice of solving a particular issue is being summed up here, as was the case in all other cases. Therefore, we believe it is extremely irresponsible in this case that this stage is not allowed, as in the 1990s constitution clearly defines us for a subsequent legislative referendum, to call a referendum on this issue and ask, of course, the people.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u194	My friend Puksic. Please, there's 85 of us in the hall. The noise is immediately too big for the speaker. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I didn't stop by today on this subject because I thought the others said a lot, but there was just a lot of talking and there was little listening. I came to this amendment, because in 7 years and something that I am a member of the National Assembly, there was no decision that: or, as originally written, demanded something and such a decision to change. In this case, I would even vote in favour of this decision if, instead of the National Assembly of the Republic, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia had written to Slovenia. She can feel that, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia cannot believe what he thinks about this legislative referendum initiative. That is why, of course, such a decision is a precedent and has not yet been made in the National Assembly. Such a conclusion is a disgrace to those who produced it. That is why I cannot and will not vote for such a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u196	He's a friend of Diaci's. Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. I'll have more than just an explanation for the voice, a practical question. I have not heard from you, Mr President, whether you have mentioned the proposal for a decision proposed by Mr Štemberger and, in essence, follows the opinion of the legislative and legal service in the last paragraph of this opinion. I didn't understand if you said anything about it. I wonder what decision we're going to vote on before?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u198	We are now in the debate, and we will now move on to a decision on the proposal of the two parliamentary groups that have tabled amendments to the proposal for a decision. Of course, we have a conclusion, including the one you tabled as an amendment, but we have everything, we will vote on it first. Please, my friend Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u199	Thank you. But this is not an amendment, but this is the conclusion that Member Šemberiger has proposed, this is a fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u200	So, first of all, we're going to vote on the decision, if it's adopted, it's still -. We will first vote on the proposal for an amendment of the two parliamentary groups and decisions, and if this is adopted, further decision is irrelevant because the amendment of the two parliamentary groups has been adopted. Anybody else want a word on this? No, no, no. We're making a decision. I'm asking for patience. We decide on the amendment of the two parliamentary groups to the proposal for a decision on the request. We're voting. I'm sorry, I can still see my hand up. Please, my friend Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. Now I don't understand you. For the fact that the decision proposed by Mr Štemberger is completely different or is excluded from the proposal for a decision and also from the amendment of the two groups. It can't be meaningless.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u202	If this proposal is adopted by two parliamentary groups, your proposal is irrelevant. Hick, there will be no misunderstandings. Sure, that's right. We will first decide on the amendment of these two parliamentary groups. We're voting. Peace in the hall. There's 72, 48 for and 17 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 17.]] We have accepted this amendment. This changed the decision of the parent working body. The motion for a decision mentioned by you, Comrade Diaci, is irrelevant. It is the proposal of a colleague of Štemberger. We have thus exhausted all decisions made today at paragraphs 1 and 2 and have concluded with a meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you all very much for your cooperation! Excuse me? I think it's just a moment! [[...]] Please sit down so there won't be any misunderstandings. Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u203	We don't understand. We have voted on the amendment, we have yet to vote on the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-09-SDZ3-Izredna-36.ana.u204	No, well, look at the amendment: "The cellar changes by saying so," the decision entirely. Excuse me? No, look, I think it's everyone's duty to follow the debate. An amendment was tabled which proposed a new text of the decision. We voted on it and voted on it. Thank you so much for your attention and good night!
