ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u1	I ask my colleagues and colleagues to come to the large debate room, we will begin the 31st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. A number of colleagues and colleagues are also absent, so that the presence of those who have not apologized will be so much more valuable, and this will be immediately at the beginning, because we need to adopt a agenda. I begin the 31st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of our Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you which colleagues and colleagues today cannot be present for other duties. These are colleagues of Ashish, Dr. Bajuk, Battelli, Cimperman, Celigoj, Montenegro, Mag. Petar, Gasparini, Janc, Jerovšek, Kavtičnik, Kelemina, Kopushar, Peterle, colleague Maria Possonec, colleagues Pukšič, Sušnik, Školč and colleague of Cveta Zalokar Orazem. I also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting, which we will welcome when they join us. We are moving on to the agenda of the 31st extraordinary meeting. The draft agenda was drawn up in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting. I have not received any proposals for withdrawal or extension of the agenda. So we're going to move on to the decision-making of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda: we will decide on a proposal for a decision to require the Constitutional Court to decide whether the content of the request for a preliminary legislative referendum and an additional explanation of the referendum question concerning the proposal for a law amending the law on trade is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular Articles 14 and 74 thereof. Please insert the voting cards into the voting devices. We will decide on the agenda as you received by reference. I'll wait another minute, but not longer, then I'll figure out the outcome of the decision on the agenda. Once again, I ask all my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. We are ahead of the vote on the agenda. Can I also ask the secretaries of the parliamentary groups to warn the colleagues and colleagues that the meeting has already begun? Please, if you're so kind and come to the parliamentary bench to set the agenda. I am putting to the vote the agenda as you received by reference. Please, if you vote. Although there are more of us in the hall, there is certainly not enough for us to decide on the agenda. I'm gonna have to wait another minute, otherwise I'm gonna have to order a break. There are enough of us in the hall, colleagues and colleagues. Would you please take your seats and make sure that the vote on the agenda allows you to start or resume the session? Please. Secondly, I will determine the outcome of the decision on the agenda as received by reference. We're voting. We're voting on the agenda. There's enough of us in the hall. I'll put this to the vote again. If we fail, I'll order a 10-minute recess to vote in the third. Colleagues and colleagues. Please, if you'll all take your seats. I'll find out where else please. [[...]] We set the agenda. We set the agenda. Okay. Ten minutes' rest. We'll continue at 2.20 p.m. Thirdly, we will determine the outcome of the vote at 2.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u2	Thirdly, I will propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, just as you have received a reference to it. Please take your seats. We decide on the agenda. 55 in attendance, 45 in and 7 in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the agenda of the 31st extraordinary meeting has been set. We're moving on to one. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE - A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A DECISION CONCERNING THE REFERENCE OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE, IS THE CONTENTS OF THE REFERENCE REFERENCE REFERENCE IN RELATING TO THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE TRADE LEGISLATIVE REFERENCE AND THE ADDITION OF THE REFERENDMENT QUESTION, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE LEGISLATION LAW IN THE FRONT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, REFERRED TO IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISION OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE TRADE 14. AND 74. I'm a member. The proposal for a decision was submitted by a group of 27 Members with a first-signed colleague, Anton Anderlic, for consideration by the assembly. Does the proposer want a word? Please, colleague Kavčič, you have time to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! We think it makes sense for the proposers to make this additional effort to address this very important issue in our opinion. Let me begin by explaining that the Constitutional Court, at the first call of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, rejected the initiative because by then the National Assembly had not taken advantage of all the options it had at its disposal to clarify the issue. These options have been used in the meantime, additional explanations have been obtained by the initiator for the referendum and, in our opinion, there is still a reasonable assumption that such an arrangement, as proposed by the initiators, would be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, some of our neighboring constitutional courts can also be used as a useful support. The approach we are proposing is rational in our view, as it would help save around 600 million dollars for the invitation to tender, in our view of the unnecessary referendum. And, as it is said, the Constitutional Court has once decided in terms of protecting the freedom of an entrepreneurial initiative. On the other hand, such an approach seems to us to be a weighted and balanced way of resolving it. It means realizing the principle that when amending and adopting legislation, we must be very careful about what legislation means to those who are intended for them - citizens and citizens, and all those who are obliged to respect the laws adopted by the National Assembly. When we talk about weighing and balance, we now believe that we have legislation that regulates this area in a fairly balanced way, which is certainly not ideal if we look at it from the point of view of the individual participant, which clearly represents some satisfactory compromise for the participants at a given time and space. Who are these participants that we need to look at, what interests we need to pay attention to? They are clearly workers in trade, they are capital owners who have their capital invested in the commercial industry, they are managers of commercial enterprises, they are, after all, citizens and citizens as buyers, they are almost 2 million, and they are also those we should not forget, unemployed who would like to be involved in the business process as well. And something else seems very important to us, because we agree with some of the incentives for this referendum, and together with them we want to better resolve certain issues, but the resolution of the issues that the initiators are aware of, the strength and the need to implement in the already existing labour legislation is not another way to change in another law the provisions that we want to regulate matters that are regulated by the already cited labour law. So we see the solution not in the referendum, but in strict compliance with the labour law on the one hand, but, of course, in the active, permanent and patient negotiations on the conditions of trade work. In this area, we agree, there are still options and it is therefore very useful to provide time for the participants to agree on more acceptable, better working conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u4	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decision has been considered by the Committee on the Economy as a competent working body, and I ask the Chairman of the Committee, my colleague Horvat, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u5	Thank you for your word. Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representative of the government, secretary of state from the Ministry of the Economy. At its current, urgent 14th session, the Committee addressed the proposal before us. In addition, as new materials, he had at his disposal an additional explanation and an updated text of the Trade Workers' Union initiative to submit a request for a referendum on the proposal for amendments to the Trade Act submitted to the National Assembly on 4.4.2003 and the opinion of the Legislative Service of the National Assembly on this additional explanation and the supplementary text of the referendum question, as well as a proposal for a decision on the request that the Constitutional Court decide whether the content of the request for a preliminary legislative referendum and an additional explanation of the referendum on the proposal for amendments to the Trade Act is based on the initiative and additional explanations, in accordance with or inconsistent with the Constitution, in particular Articles 14 and 74 thereof. I'm not going to read the report because you got it and it's relatively short. Let me just say the essentials. Following the opening presentation of the proposal by Mr Anton Anderlič, the first-signed Member of Parliament, and the additional explanation by the representative or secretary of the legal and legislative service, Ms Tyne Bitenc Pengov, the debate developed in which both arguments or opinions were expressed against the proposal being re-examined by the Constitutional Court, as well as by opinions - and this prevailed, as demonstrated by the vote - that, however, it was prudent to adopt this decision, to re-examine the constitutional court, to avoid subsequent possible initiatives for constitutional disputes, as well as in terms of rationality, in order to avoid a demanding and costly referendum procedure, if it were shown that the question raised and justifications were not in accordance with the Constitution. Thus, the debate, from which I should also mention what was not the first time that this issue was addressed, expressed the opinion of both the proponents of this decision and those who opposed it, the opinion or some kind of call to the government as organisers of interviews between employers and employees, the representatives of trade unions to speed up the talks and reach an agreement as soon as possible, because it is considered to be the most appropriate solution, both in the interest of both employers and workers, taking into account both economic and social aspects and, in particular, taking into account and implementing the rights of employees arising from the labour law. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted a decision to propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that it adopt it in the text before it. There was no amendment and the committee did not decide on it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board. Does Secretary of State Logar want a word for the government's views? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u7	Dear Members, the President-in-Office! At the Ministry of Economy, we organised the first round of negotiations this week. The negotiations showed that the representatives of the Union of Free Trade Unions had come with limited powers and could not continue negotiations on the issue. We agreed that we will meet again next Monday and that negotiations will continue on the issue of the Sunday work allowance. In fact, the story is that the text of Article 17 which is enshrined in the current law has been agreed. It was also agreed at the time of this signature that negotiations on the amount of compensation for Sunday work would continue. These negotiations have stalled and these referendum initiatives have also resulted from this deadlock and, of course, everything else that followed. We believe that it is possible to reach an agreement on the amount of the supplement, as there has also been a convergence in this segment of the position, that the relations between the unions are not fully harmonised. However, at yesterday's meeting, the Economic Commission for State Affairs and the Commission of the Council of State for Small Economics and Tourism expressed the position of representatives of free trade unions that they were not apriors to Sunday work, but that, I think, the next syntagma was used at the normal cost of Sunday work. Both trade unions have expressed their view that in some ways they are also committed to limiting Sunday work through economic factors, the real cost of work is. On Monday, we had the following agreement to continue the negotiations on the following Monday, as I have already said, and in the meantime, to ensure that all negotiating parties have the appropriate powers to sign and suspend the agreement if an agreement is reached, to guarantee the cessation of referendum activities and, on the other hand, to duly institutionalise the agreement on the employer's side and to bring this agreement to life as soon as possible. Once again, I would like to stress our position, as well as my own, that if the negotiators come with the appropriate powers, the agreement will be able to reach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. I have three reports from the parliamentary groups so far, my colleague Pečet, Brenčič and Sok. First of all, I'd like to invite my colleague, Mr. Pečet, to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u9	Your Honors are here! I believe that the mandate period for the 2000-2004 National Assembly will mainly indicate a large number of initiatives for the referendum and the referendums themselves. I think that from this we should learn a lot from Slovenian policy, especially from Members and Members of Parliament. This means that individual segments of our society - and we're not talking about small segments, we're talking about large segments - are not happy with our [[In noodles]] The collective part. For, of course, all complaints from citizens and citizens stem from our work, from our parliamentary work, which is 100% from government work. I personally assess that this is due to excessive concentration and the abuse of the power of individual political parties that adopt legal arrangements and legal solutions solely for themselves or only for a certain segment. And of course, because their decisions correspond only to a certain segment, and the existence of another segment in this society, which is not satisfied with their choices and therefore serves the solutions offered by the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. So those instruments that are somehow considered the best or most democratic forms of decision-making in the democratic and developed world. The fact is that the parliamentary system in our country is a reflection of elections. That's right. However, I am sure that political parties, not the parliamentary group and not individual Members and Members after election, should not only defend their own or their own narrow interests, but should also be accompanied by decisions, wishes and visions of the development of the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, we have always found ourselves in practice the opposite. I think we have had more referendums in this mandate than in all of Slovenia's history since the previous millennium. I think that this is information that not only makes sense to qualify it also through the value of referendums, through a financial aspect - on average they take half a billion funds or five hundred million Slovenian tolls to carry out one referendum - but, of course, more importantly, that we leave a certain segment of people behind; that politics does not suggest a solution and that this also loses confidence in politics and parliamentary democracy. I am sorry that Parliament is not able to find within its activities, i.e. legislative roles, more capacity and more flexibility, to adopt individual laws, which we know in advance, to initiate referendum activities, on a wiser path, that is to say, a path that will satisfy the vast majority of the parties to these laws. No! No! Politics has once again proved to be deaf and inelastic to the needs of citizens. Is there any point in talking about the existence of parliamentary democracy? Not according to our estimate. According to the assessment or the system of the voting machine, and it is in the Slovenian Parliament, we will not come a step further. We will even come to the stage that by the end of this mandate period, that is to say, by 2004, if there is luck or disaster, this national assembly and the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will meet us at a number of referendums. Controversies of the referendums, seen through the facts of history, have always used the argument of financial resources; indeed, how much implementation itself will cost this country and indirectly through the budget of citizens and citizens, who will be in the form of additional new or higher tax burdens. For we must be aware that over 97% of the state budget is made up of so-called tax revenues. Here. But to all those who make this argument as the only argument against the referendum, it is important to say that a much higher amount than the six million Slovenian Tolars bear our decisions within the framework of laws that are poor, which are expensive and which cause this lack of transparency in public finances. The results of the lack of transparency in public finances are small and in the long term the most harmful in additional indebtedness. We cannot, therefore, accept in any way as a fact against the appearance of the argument merely and only its cost aspect. It would make much more sense to ask ourselves what are the costs of our decisions, which are, for the most part, contrary to the will of citizens and citizens. And the frequency of our decisions is increasing. This can be seen from the number of referendums and, after all, from the amount of referendum initiatives that are later lost in this house due to insufficient numbers. Of course, within the framework of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, there is a certain quota of required and necessary signatures by citizens of the so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called. This means that if you are a few tens of thousands of people throughout the procedure through an administrative unit decide to request a referendum to settle a particular issue, this claim is likely to have some credibility. But of course, politics is more afraid of this, so it is against it. It would make much more sense, according to our assessment, if parliamentary democracy, political parties, especially government political parties, did not have such a desire to hold and strictly legitimize what they were told by them - some say the programme, others say the lobby. And personally, I am increasingly inclined to make the pace of work, the pace of the decision "for" or "against" dictates a political lobby that seeks some narrow interests. And, of course, in the story of "traders" [[in pomegranates]] The capital lobby is on. There is no other matter than the existence of a capital lobby that will pay all those who are trying to gain time today and, secondly, call for the same matter by the Constitutional Court, which will pay this lobby, in the form of a share in the pre-election period or with a different service. Mr Kavčič, as a motioner or one of the motioners, said that the Constitutional Court had communicated, and that we can also explain this decision by the Constitutional Court in a way that the National Assembly had not yet taken advantage of all the options and so on and that this means that we have met several times in the National Assembly on the Committee on Economic Affairs, had some discussions at the College of the President of the National Assembly and that now the time has come when we are taking advantage of opportunities, so we will once again call on the Constitutional Court to speak its own. No! No! In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that this is the wrong interpretation of the Constitutional Court's decision - but that the Constitutional Court has informed us of what we should already understand: that this is only a political decision at this point. And because political parties - on behalf of transparency - fear decisions, fear a referendum, and fear, of course, more importantly, that there is a different referendum outcome that they have recently passed, they are using the possibility of stalling the referendum issue itself. We estimate that this is unacceptable by government parties. We estimate that there have been few referendum initiatives with which the majority of governments would play so ignorantly. We also attribute much of the blame or guilt in the form of a desire to be liked by the president of the national assembly. The fact is that this National Assembly, at least this National Assembly, should stick to the lines of law and not to everyone and to all the influence of lobbying, especially the capital one, should provide support. While, unfortunately, the lobby of the socially endangered has no support in this national assembly because there is nothing to offer in return. But of course, if a great giant, a commercial one, decides to make even more use of the workers, politics will nod because this great giant has the capital power behind him. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that it is unfortunate that the National Assembly has made so many mistakes in the past, but we are pleased that people are correcting our mistakes, because, of course, the referendum is being carried out, we can interpret it and also evaluate it as correcting policy mistakes. And if we, especially the government majority, appear more sovereign each day and more independent of people, for people, then it is only right to be corrected. I think this is enough criticism for every Member. In the National Party, we estimate that we must not allow this delay, and therefore we estimate that it is pointless and irrelevant to ask the Constitutional Court again to give its decision. The previous decision of the Constitutional Court, on the one hand, opened up a new possibility for this National Assembly to once again call on the candidates of the referendum to give an additional or additional explanation to their proposals. That's what they did. Even more. I think that one of the rare cases where there is a legal service, the secretariat, in the framework of the National Assembly has found that it is the political party’s turn to decide everything ahead. And there's no need for us to move around and put the ball on another court course. I estimate that the National Assembly, through the political parties represented, should show sufficient courage and take a decision. No decision taken at the referendum will ever appeal to everyone. Of course, political parties are not set up to be popular, but are set up to try to help this society in a positive way. I think it is time for political parties to take on a certain responsibility. In the Slovenian National Party, we are prepared to accept this responsibility. I mean, we always have been. It is true, however, that the vast majority in the National Assembly of this willingness, that is, willingness to accept responsibility, is not ready to accept us, and that it will stall and blur the Slovenian social space by instilling a request for a referendum from one institution to another, calling on the proposer again, calling on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and all partners to find some kind of common language. Nothing has been said to us, especially on the Committee on the Economy, that they have tried to harmonise the social partners with the help of the government among themselves, on the other hand, with the interests of capital. They do not find a common language because, even in these negotiations, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not found sufficient credibility to put itself on the side of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but raised hands and said, decide among yourselves. Because the decision could not be reached because such an interest under A, the interest of citizens or of employees, is fighting with the interest of capital. Because they're standing on their island and they can't come together. Thus, Slovenian policy also in the form of an institution of the Slovenian Government has not been able to approach any side. And we also assess, within the National Party, that if Slovenian policy acquires the power it has under the Constitution and the law to dictate the pace and movement of life to people and also to the signatories of this referendum initiative, that they should not only remain on the sole burden of people for certain things, but that Slovenian policy should stand by and create conditions for something better, so not only and only burden them. However, when there is a need to do something on the positive side, there is no one anywhere. In the Slovenian National Party, we will oppose the proposal to re-apply to the Constitutional Court for a time of capital interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u10	Thank you very much, buddy. Mr Brenčič will present the position of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u11	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. My performance on behalf of the Group of Members is procedural in nature. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we do not support much of the path or action of the previous legislative referendum, which would regulate this area, which we have been facing for quite a good number of days and even debates. Because we believe that this area is the only one that makes sense and is comparable to European regulation and regulation based on dialogue between the two social partners, who need each other and depend on each other. Unfortunately, this genuine dialogue has not taken place. In this case, our legal system has established an institute with a law on referendum and human initiative, which has just entered into application under the heading of one of the partner agreements in this dialogue. That is why this has taken place, and on this subject matter, which we wish to address today by a decision at today's meeting under this item, the National Assembly has already made a request to the Constitutional Court, perhaps in a slightly different purpose or content than today's decision. Back then, in our Group of Members, we felt that there was no justification for this procedure, and we were right, and the Constitutional Court also rejected the request and, of course, taught or instructed the National Assembly what it could do in accordance with its powers. This was also done by the National Assembly and, in accordance with the request the National Assembly had announced or commanded, it had also completed both the referendum question and the explanation. This is quite enough for us, and we believe that it is not enough to seek any additional material from the referendum initiator to the National Assembly to seek constitutional disputes. Of course, at the initiative of the Group of Members, the National Assembly should re-examine the Constitutional Court, this time strictly assessing the content of the referendum question in accordance with the Constitution or Articles 14 and 74. We believe that the purpose of this procedure is, in the first place, the establishment of a national assembly or the establishment of a national council of interest, one of the partners in this dialogue, who unfortunately does not feel the need to be a genuine partner in the necessary negotiation, and therefore wishes to prevent the initiator for the referendum, in accordance with the law on referendum and public initiative, from assigning the procedure - and as we firmly expect - thereby creating an urgent need for the employer to approach a more appropriate agreement in this case. Therefore, we do not want to participate in this procedure, because we believe that we are in this case applying some kinds of procedures that have not been used by the National Assembly in the past practice. And more. We believe that these are procedures or proposals that do not have a basis in the current law of the referendum on human initiative. Therefore, the Group of Members will announce, at this time, in accordance with Article 65(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the absence, both in the course of further discussion and in the decision-making of the decision in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u12	Thank you, Comrade Brenčič. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you have therefore announced the absence and take note of this. My colleague Sok will communicate the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u13	Thank you for your word. In the New Slovenia Group of Members, of course, we will not support this delay. This is not the first decision we have made, and we do not intend to do so today. We find it illogical that the National Assembly on the same issue would ask the Constitutional Court twice, since the Constitutional Court is not some kind of girl of this National Assembly. The fact that employers and workers in trade activities could not agree among themselves is that the national assembly of this area did not want to settle with the relevant legislation and, for this reason, of course, there was an initiative to start collecting signatures for the call for a preliminary legislative referendum. And it is true that we have been warning for a long time that more and more initiatives are taking place in this country regarding the call for a referendum. Individual groups of citizens simply use this mechanism of direct democracy because of the threat and call for assistance, if I may say so, to the people. And I don't know why the National Assembly affords this, and here it's stalling and then through the government, through the mouth of the Secretary of State, it's saying that they're going to agree on something else, but when it's clear that they couldn't agree. And I do not believe that the addition to Sunday's work can solve anything, but in further justifications and explanations, the trade union draws attention to some in the sky of egregious injustices. Look. They say that employment for a certain period of time is increasing in practice and then, in accordance with the new Labour Relations Act, an institute for the termination of the employment contract is coming or is being used. This is, of course, an additional pressure on all employees not to hope to express or demand what they are already doing under the law, that is the right to rest. And these pressures are, of course, primarily exposed to women, because, according to the union, 74% are among the employees. In practice, this is shown through the hardship of employees and such hardships - I believe what it says - has the effect that there are various diseases of people, that family life is at risk and, of course, that child protection is also at risk. They further point out that, among other things, 74% of women in employment are young mothers who do not have child care. They also point to the problem of transporting to work on Sundays and holidays and, of course, also mention how these matters are regulated in different countries of the European Union, where several countries are in our neighbourhood, namely Austria, Germany, Denmark, Switzerland, Norway, where trade is closed on Sundays. So in New Slovenia we do not believe that this delay can solve this problem. However, I must say that we are also surprised that some Members of this national assembly, especially the 27 who signed this, are so keen to say or to bring in a free economic initiative whenever possible. I must say that many of you who swear to this free economic initiative today were members of one party before 1990, which has suppressed and successfully suppressed this economic initiative at all levels. And today, through this, you advocate the most brutal forms of capitalism. We understand this way of working as a simple bluff and, of course, we will not take part in this matter, and we also take advantage of this business option and predict that we will not take part in the vote on this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u14	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. Therefore, your decision to obstruct in accordance with the Rules of Procedure also takes note. My colleague Pokrč will present the position of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, followed by his colleague Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Also in the United List of Social Democrats, we would like to put an end to the complications of the call for a referendum on the trade law as soon as possible. Our desire, though, is for employers and trade unions to find a common language. In doing so, I must say that we would expect a slightly more active position and action from the government, but not just to give room for coordination. Surely the completion of this procedure with regard to the call for a referendum could be achieved by the President of the National Assembly calling for 40,000 signatures and thus finding a solution. At the same time, however, it is right to say that it would be useful to have a signature-gathering process and then, if successfully gathered, in preparation for the referendum and during the referendum, the most indisputable question is that, if the referendum is announced, citizens and citizens can really decide on the content, not formal reservations in any way. For we believe that the referendum issue should be a free debate on its constitutionality. If a referendum is to be held, citizens and citizens should only decide whether they agree with the employers' demands, that they can set open time without any legal restrictions on Sundays, regardless of actual needs, regardless of how much population and supply is already provided to the optimal extent, and no matter what other interests the employees have, and - to say the buyers on Sundays. Including problems arising from whether the Sunday work allowance is adequate, including issues of additional problems and costs by coming to work and leaving work, on Sundays and the like. The United List of Social Democrats would expect a slightly greater understanding of employers on these issues and of the proposals put forward by trade unions. We believe that in such a case it should not be difficult to find an agreement to address the need for a referendum. Following the conclusion of the National Assembly, trade unions further explained their proposal to contribute to making the issues as clear as possible. However, it is correct to say that despite these additional explanations and a change in the referendum question, the Law Service has also said the following. I quote: "There is still an unfinished central issue, whether, in order to ensure the rights of workers, it is necessary, by law, to cut into the determination of the operating time of trade and thus into a free enterprise initiative, or whether this objective can be achieved by means of a lesser means which would not interfere with this constitutional right." Naturally or knowingly, I quoted this part because this formulation is hard enough, clear enough and difficult enough to say that the Secretariat did not give a serious enough warning to the National Assembly after its expert opinion, even though he finally said so, you should make a political decision. But the warnings are serious. In view of such positions, a proposal was put forward for the Group of Members and Members to review this issue at an extraordinary meeting today. I would like to point out that I assume that the consistency of the content and explanation of the proposal that we are discussing and deciding today is in accordance with Article 16 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative. I also assume that this has been checked in terms of expertise and that nothing like the last time will happen to us. That probably wouldn't be good, and I believe we all agree. If this decision is not carefully drawn up in the professional sense, I would not like to see the Constitutional Court reject the constitutionality of the matter, for formal reasons, once again or reject it. So much for the circumstances in which we decide. And now something about the views we have on this issue in the United Nations Group, although I must say that sometimes we are in trouble when we are deciding on this complex issue. First of all, let me stress that, according to the content of the United List of Social Democrats, we do not see a problem with the referendum issue. For us, setting an optimum time on Sundays is possible and, in principle, is not constitutionally controversial. However, in the interest of trade unions, in the interest of clarity of the referendum question, that, at the time of gathering signatures or referendum campaigns, formal and constitutional issues should not be misused in order to give negotiators more time to find a common solution, we feel that it is possible to adopt a proposal to do so again, and this is indeed the last time, to test the validity of such a question through the Constitutional Court. Let me tell you, this time too, we have been talking - not to say we will talk - about the views that the Union of Free Trade Unions in Slovenia have in the trade union, how they feel about what would be better for them. They were of the view that it was particularly important for them that all the dilemmas of the referendum issue should be clarified legally to the extent possible, that a necessary referendum - which they themselves did not stand for if a negotiated solution could be found - would then be freed from these legal issues and that citizens and citizens would really only be able to decide whether and under what conditions the opening of trade on Sundays would also be acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Pohorec will communicate the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. He's been followed by a fellow Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u17	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In our Group of Members, we are aware that the situation is not so simple and that it is worth considering and discussing. We are aware that it is not possible for all employees in any sector to have the same opportunity to work in the afternoon, even at night, even on Saturdays, Sundays, on holidays. Is it possible, based on the same rights of all employees, to seek tomorrow's referendum question that it is no longer allowed to work on Sunday, except for some exceptions in catering, tourism, health care and elsewhere in many industrial sectors? At that point, some of these or companies, or, say, hospitals and so on, can be shut down. The Slovenian society probably cannot afford this. We are aware that in the store, opening time or at least working on Sundays could reduce the fact that this is not a terrible emergency when it has to. It was just that there was a private trade phenomenon when everyone wanted to have trade at every corner, compete with large businesses and have open shops on Sundays. Then big shopping malls emerged to increase competition with these private trading systems, and thousands of small shops had to close their doors and people were out of work. Of course, many have moved to large shopping centers. During this time, life habits have certainly changed - and customs, if we want - and commerce, at least in the modern concept in some cities, are no longer just a shopping center that I want to buy a dress or a kilo of banana on Sunday. Trade in many cities has become, at least these modern centers, a gathering place for people. In some modern concept. If I'd invited you to Europark Maribor on Sunday, I'd meet all those I can't meet in a week. And that's it. And now say it, and now you have to close Europak on Sundays. This seems controversial to us, and this seems difficult with the law to prescribe in advance. However, by law - and we have prescribed - the rights that employees have: the scope of working time, the minimum right from the working relationship, the annual leave, pay and everything else. And I think this is the biggest problem. Do we know these rights as employers in Slovenia? Or we are looking for all the options for how to minimize those rights and through coercion: you have to work or work without work, but we force them to go to work. It's unfair to these people where they behave. And I think there's one of the weaknesses of all our institutions in charge of supervision. We should put an end to this, not banning that there should be no open shop, inn, hotel on Sunday; in the end, we will say: hospital, and on Friday we will bring the patients together and let them go home for the weekend. I don't think we'll be able to afford that. And this free economic initiative is not going to be able to prescribe everything. But they can prescribe, when they decide to do Sunday work, to open trade and industrial plants and anyone on Sundays to respect what workers do. And I'm sure most employees are looking for this because they don't get it. And now I would be confined only to the question of why we met today. Do we want this reply from the Constitutional Court before we go to the referendum? It is perfectly legitimate that 40,000 signatures that can be collected today require a referendum. We do not challenge this right, and if they are gathered together, the referendum will also be held. But we are interested in the following, and here we are concerned. If we are not convinced of the content of this question and the consequences of the question so voted, we are confident that this will happen after the referendum. One of these economic operators will raise such a question to the Constitutional Court and will receive an answer. And what are we going to do then? How are we going to act then? Or rather, we did everything we could to avoid repeating what had happened many times. For this reason, to be sure first, we support this proposal by the Committee on the Economy to ask the Constitutional Court for this position. We hope to get it, whatever it is, and then we will respect it. And then the decision to call the referendum will be easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u18	The position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members will be presented by a colleague of Tsukati, followed by a colleague of Diaca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u19	Thank you for your word! Your Honors are here! The signatories to this meeting, including the supporters of the Constitutional Court's review, shall explain their proposal mainly in three parts. First of all, they are very concerned about the freedom of economic initiative. It is likely that the economic initiative is somewhat limited if we provide for Sunday rest and lay down the right to holiday for workers by law. It is also limited if we set a 40-hour worker per week, there is a limited economic initiative when we set minimum wages, regressions, rights for pregnant women, overtime, all this is a restriction. You must be really worried about some of you for a free economic initiative. We, in the opposition, are concerned about workers' rights. Unfortunately, we are not enough, unfortunately, capital is stronger in shaping the fate of Slovenian workers. The already cited opinion of our legislative legal service, since this service, in its explanation, wonders whether, in order to ensure the rights of workers, it is necessary by law to cut into the establishment of a business time of trade and thus into a free enterprise initiative, or whether this objective can be achieved by means which do not prejudice this constitutional right. It is not here to ask whether the right of workers should be protected, but how. And he says it's important to consider whether it would be possible by any other means. The trade union, gentlemen, and the workers, the sellers find that all other options are exhausted, all other means, including the willingness or unwillingness of this national council, to adopt an appropriate law. That's exhausted. All they have left is a referendum. I think that so much respect for their demands, however, legitimate demands should be made to make this work more difficult for them. Then it always sounds like a very interesting concern for jobs. How many workers will be fired if we stop Sunday work, and how many new workers were on new employees when this right was opened? How much? How many, you think, will be on new employees if they have shopkeepers, instead of on Sundays, on Mondays, if the shop is closed on Mondays. Do you think 20% more workers will be hired? Don't be ridiculous. With such insinuations and such lycimer proofs and excuses, no longer go to the National Assembly, which is supposed to be a serious institution. And, of course, then, the arguments that we are just before the agreement, that some social agreement will be reached and so on. Your Honor, the union finds that there is no agreement and there will be no such agreement. Nor do you plead at the high price of the referendum, for this is the last tool the workers have chosen. If we had the sense or sense of the referendum before us and the costs of the state budget, we would have regulated this when we adopted the law. And of course, a dot is a concern of public interest. Gentlemen, who determines the public interest? Would not the public, or would we tell us what the public interest is, or would we not immediately allow the public to determine what their interest is, what is the public interest? Salesmen and buyers. That's the point of the referendum. This is the point of the referendum if we are concerned or if we weigh public interest and the interest of the economy, economic initiatives, then let the public interest come to the referendum. Of course, this is where it gets complicated. The public interest shown at the referendums is not always in line with the government interest. It is not always in line with that interest, which is expressed also in government parties and in your performances. No, ma'am. This gap in these interests, the government interest and public interest shown in the referendums, including the OBMP, the referendum on telecommunications and so on. These are things that should concern not only the opposition but also someone else in this national assembly. If I think about what is actually the aim of this delaying referendum, what is the goal, because no argument stands, with which the applicants wanted to prove the need to postpone the referendum, then I have no other than a very high probability of wanting to stall the signatories. The referendum will take place in one way or another, delaying the referendum during the summer months. I don't know. And, of course, this wastes our time and additional resources. Because with every day, the whole thing is not only more painful for those who want to check public interest with a referendum, but also more expensive. For this reason, gentlemen, we will not participate in this game and I predict, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the obstruction of the Social Democratic Party at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Comrade Tsukati, you have announced, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the obstruction of your parliamentary group. This is what the National Assembly took note of. Mr Diaci would like to present the position of the Youth Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u21	Thank you for your word. We will not support this proposal. For the first time, we have supported the proposal for a constitutional review, and for the second time, we will no longer support it, because it is a matter of mere delay. We believe that by re-examination before the Constitutional Court, we will achieve only that we will extend the decision to start collecting signatures for a few months. We are also of the opinion that employers and employees will agree at this time, because in this case it is, in particular, not the only one, but mainly the amount of the allowance for Sunday work. The level of this supplement is the legitimate objective of workers in this sector. In short, we expect that one entity will agree at this time and there will be no need to discuss the procedure for collecting signatures so that we will not become a country of annual referendums if we are not already there. We will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u22	Thank you very much. In doing so, we have exhausted the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. This way we can now go to the debate of MEPs and Members. I'm asking if anyone wants a word. Please, Comrade Kebrich, Lavrinc. I also ask all fellow Members and Members who wish to cooperate and decide whether they are close or in the Chamber, because the vote may be short. Please, Comrade Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u23	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues and the representative of the Ministry of Labour! The point is, if you were to philosophically express yourself, it's complicated. But what's the point? The crucifixion is a conflict of interest. From where we come from, everyone can find enough arguments to defend, represent and convince others that this is the right thing to do. The important thing is that we have three interests. The first interest for us Members must be what the citizens who elected us want. Another interest can be, or thirdly, only what employers want in their interest or what employees want in their interest. Our judgment must be what is in the interests of most citizens, for none of us can imagine that they will be in line with everyone. It's not like that. I don't want to be long, but I'll point out the following. Surely the basis is that it is not a problem to collect an appropriate number of signatures to give an initiative for a referendum. Let us not stifle our eyes that there will be no referendums because of this or our position, but there will be more and more. According to the Swiss system, three can agree, and one is a referendum, and one comes and decides. Pika. We come into this democracy, that citizens have all the opportunity, otherwise, their will, their desire, to express their interest, and, if not otherwise, to enforce it through the referendum. And the other thing is, we're gonna go far with this. It is essential, as my colleague Pohorec has made clear, that if we get a prior clear position from the Constitutional Court, we will avoid large costs, or not at all, but costs will only be incurred later if we decide one way or another. I believe that the interest of the citizens is particular, and if we are to take this into account, we will see if there is a call for a referendum, what is the interest in this particular question that will be expressed by participating in the referendum. If we have this crucial problem, how many citizens can decide at the referendum by one way or another, the majority voted, either in favour or against, or what we have already solved, what are those invalid ballots, then let us ask ourselves what our responsibility is in this House to these basic questions. Once again, 40,000 signatures won't be a problem to collect, because they will press those and everyone will be afraid not to sign, because then the unions or their representatives will call him anyway, I won't say responsible, but look at him with such or other eyes. But the point of the problem is, if we look at the world, we can't imagine today that we're going to invent a gunpowder. Some have invented it, some have unfortunately used it, while others know it exists and do not use it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u24	Two other colleagues have been reported. Comrade Lavrinc first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In my opinion, it would be repugnant to say so, for the National Assembly only if the Constitutional Court once again rejected our request. That's my opinion. If the Constitutional Court deals with this issue in a way that weighs, let's say, which right is harder, stronger to say, in this case, it seems to me that this path that we are now taking is the right path. Why? Because, after all, this will be one kind of judicata for the future, a reference to our work and the purpose was to do so, no matter when the referendum would take place. However, I think it is the power, given the hands available, to do this thing in such a way that the majority of the citizens present will be present to go to the referendum in such a case. That's one. Secondly, I cannot agree with the arguments that have been raised here, that this is actually only about capital advocates and, on the other hand, about those who are advocates of labour rights. In doing so, it is conscious that this is not only a free economic initiative on the one hand, I will say, entities such as large trading houses, but it is a question of those who are independent entrepreneurs involved in trade. We have also warned about this at that time, and if such a law is passed that nothing will be opened on Sunday, then we have restricted the one who survives and who hunts for his market niche in this way. Therefore, I think that this dilemma that we are exposing here is not as false a dilemma as some have wanted to present today. There's something else I'd like to say. If these things are cited, at least a little awareness or familiarity is needed; how a work process is planned. It cannot be argued that you need the same number of workers for production that runs on a permanent basis as for production that runs for five working days. It is impossible to say what has been exposed here today. The fact is, if you want to organize a job to run on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Wednesday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, you need more people because we have some general work obligation, one month is 168 hours, the other month is 172 hours and so on. Well, you definitely have to, if you want to keep yourself open on Sunday, so many more people. I will not go into those differences that arise, of course, in profit and in the way that this is done, for example, I could say how this was regulated in the textile industry, which was known for the fact that mainly women were employed and that production had to be organised at night and all those conventions that had already been adopted in the previous country. If I give my opinion, I will support the decision, because it seems to me that what is prepared now has some juice, has some salt, is worth waiting so long to see what the constitutional court will do in this case. If the Constitutional Court says that the right of people to be closed and have a Sunday is more difficult than this right to decide for themselves when to restrict the opening, let's say, even individuals, in such a case, I will not only remove myself, but also refer it to me, as well as to my colleagues, and also to our conduct in the future in the adoption of laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u26	Another one has been reported, and this is Comrade Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. It's hard to speak, because it's not, I'll say, in this case, otherwise thinking, luckily my friend Peca is here, and I have at least one who thinks differently than I do. I think it's good to support such an initiative. I'll back her up. For me, the opinion that our legislative legal service has written and then the committee has confirmed is sufficiently weighty to be judged as envisaged. As far as content is concerned, I think it is also necessary to make it clear, and I will once again make very clear what I think about this content. I think it's a totally false dilemma, who's for capital and who's for people, as this story puts it. That's not what this is about. It is simply the functioning of a system and the elements of the market, which just have to do some things and sort things out. And I'm gonna repeat for a second what I said once before. It is three segments: workers, employers and consumers. In all this story, we always forget about the consumer segment, which is not irrelevant. It's very important. Nobody's asking them anything. On the one hand, we are adapting to the so-called European working time, and I do not know what, on the other hand, we want to place some restrictions on people not being able to do so when they do so. I wonder if this dilemma is serious, I don't think it's for people, for employees, for traders, it's mostly said that it's their right and that it's for these, especially women, because mostly women are employed in this segment, that it's better for them to be home on Sundays and so on. But no one talks about the second segment of these people's earnings. This is a very important element. You know, it's nice to be home if you have some money, but it's not nice and wonderful to be home, not having any money. Not to mention, of course, all those who might have lost their jobs or all those who would not have received this service. This weighting, when we talk about content, who gets more and who loses more, can have a very, very long run. I am sure that, above all, this is not a question for the referendum, as are many that we have already had at the referendums and many that we will probably still have, not questions for the referendum, but some other mechanisms. In this case, the negotiating mechanisms that we've heard of are running and, as I hope, will come to an agreement. And that's the essence of the whole thing. Unions should be allowed to fight for the rights of people to work, to earn well and to work under normal conditions. They need to be provided with this. And, of course, employers, to be able to earn money, then the stores will be open, and consumers will have open shops so they can go there. These are the three elements. That's why I support the matter or not, I have to be very honest, I'm not asking people about it at the referendum, because it's a non-referendum matter, like many others. However, I am in favour of asking the Constitutional Court once again at this stage, as it has been written down.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We are in the decision-making process on the proposal for a decision. We're moving on to a decision on him. We vote on the proposal for a decision. 42. Again! We vote on the proposal for a decision! 42. There are more of us in the hall than we need to make a decision. We have taken into account the announcement of obstruction of those parliamentary groups which they have given. I'll give you 10 minutes. At 3:48, we'll make our decision for the third time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u29	Thirdly, when deciding on the proposal for a decision, what will be the decision of the national assembly in the matter. Colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats! We're going to vote! May I have your attention in the hall? We will vote for the third time. Three parliamentary groups have announced obstruction. The rest of us are voting. Please! I'm asking for peace in the hall! We're in the middle of a vote. Please, leaders of the parliamentary groups, we will resume our session in 30 minutes. Please, Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u30	I'm sorry, but really, I've been reading a constitutional decision here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u31	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u32	I've literally screwed up, I'll say my own way, and I'll miss the vote. [[....]] I didn't notice when that one was running. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u33	That's no reason to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u34	Can I have a look, I didn't vote [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u35	I can't accept that as a reason. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u36	I get it, I get it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u37	Of course, the meeting is inconclusive, and I must decide when to proceed. I'll give you 10 minutes off and then we'll make another decision. 10 minutes - at 16 we'll vote. And when I say three times that there is peace in the hall, that you are paying attention, please, that's the way it is!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-09-SDZ3-Izredna-31.ana.u38	May I have your attention, please? I'm making a motion for a decision. We continue the session, which was interrupted because of indiscretion. We decide on a proposal for a decision requiring the Constitutional Court to decide whether the content of the request for a preliminary legislative referendum and a further explanation of the referendum question concerning the proposal for a law amending the law on trade is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular Articles 14 and 74 thereof. We're voting! 48 present. 41 for, 7 for. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it we've reached a decision. We've exhausted item 1 of the agenda and I'm closing the session.
