ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u1	Hello! Good-bye, everybody! The hour will soon be after 14, the time when we begin the meeting of the National Assembly on Monday. I'd wait for the other colleagues and colleagues to join us, and then we'll start. Colleagues and colleagues from the hall, please take their seats and those outside the hall to join us. I begin the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. It was invoked pursuant to Article 57(1) of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: colleagues of Battelli, Jakič, Janša, Jerič, Jerovšek, Malovršek, Kangler, Kebric, Partljič, Švagan, Weber, Zamernik, for the beginning of the meeting of colleague Kramberger, after 17 hours there will be no colleague of Shirce and after 16 hours will be no colleague of Kelemin. You're all here. I welcome you. I also invited the Prime Minister of Mags to the meeting. Anton Ropa, 1st and 21st. The government is also invited to all points. The representative of RTV Slovenia and the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic and the representative of the Council of Justice on the 33rd item of the agenda. Everything is ready to move on to a decision on the agenda. First of all, don't forget to check the voting devices later. Do all voting devices work smoothly so that we can decide? There's plenty of us in the hall. When setting the agenda, I inform you that I have not received any proposals for withdrawal and extension within the time limit, so that we can decide on the agenda if no one wants a word to explain the vote. Then we will decide on the draft agenda as you have received by reference. We're voting. 52 present, 43 for and 2 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] The agenda of the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, last regular this year, is set. At 3 p.m., the National Assembly will move on to the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. Until then, I'll stop the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u2	We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE QUESTIONS OF CONTRACTING AND CONTRACTING PARTIES Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, ministers, ministers! Please, if everyone takes their seats. We'll move on to the first item of the agenda. The Prime Minister, whom I welcome, will join us at any moment. Please, please, you can sit down. Good afternoon, Prime Minister. Before I give the floor to my colleague Brejc to ask the Prime Minister the first question, let me say that you have also received an overview of the questions and initiatives sent. At that time, we have made special efforts to ensure that, as far as possible, the government has responded with a prompt response, and to cooperate, as far as possible, at the meeting, at the agenda item, and I thank you for this understanding. I will now give the floor first to the three representatives of the opposition's sent groups and then to the Members and Members for answers or questions and initiatives to ministers and ministers. Master Janez Kopač, Minister of the Environment, apologizes for his presence at the Energy Council in Brussels today. By the way, let me remind you that this problem has already been mentioned Monday, and we will also examine this possibility in the College at future meetings, so that there is no reason why Members and Ministers would not participate in this item and ask questions and answers. All right, Dr. Brace will now ask the Prime Minister a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Rop! The perpetrator of the duties of the Director of the Government Anti-Corruption Office claims that the most corruption is in the economic and political elites. Public research on corruption in Slovenia shows that people first mention, for example, in procurement procedures. Even in the most well-known affairs, such as the SIB Bank, nothing special has happened yet. Or a more recent case of the sale of the system technology, Viator Vector, where the factory was sold for a significantly lower price than was later sold to other owners. It is interesting that in both cases there are the same people from the Liberal Democracy and the United List. According to the public, corruption is a worrying and frequent phenomenon in Slovenia, according to GRECA research Slovenia is becoming an increasingly corrupt country, as it again fell by two cities on the international scale. However, if we were to judge corruption by the police and the prosecution's activities, we could say that there is almost no corruption in Slovenia. You, Mr Rop, were the Secretary of State for Privatisation and Regional Development from 1993 to 1996, then the Minister of Labour, then the Minister of Finance, and now the Prime Minister. No doubt you're a man of the political elite. So these hard words of Mr. Penk are flying at you, too. But you haven't responded, and neither has your client. How can the public explain your silence? How should state authorities be effective in fighting corruption, but if the top of the government says no? He doesn't respond to such hard words. And last but not least, it's not clear: Did he do anything? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u4	Prime Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u5	Thank you so much for asking. Of course, not being able to answer it is not true. We all know that I have repeatedly referred to this issue, in previous functions and even now. Maybe first about your general assessment. In this mandate, the government has set up a Anti-Corruption Office or anti-corruption Office to contribute to the fight against corruption itself, although it is true, of course, that the fight against corruption must be fought at many levels. There is something the government can do and must do, no doubt, something that the National Assembly can and must do. The other thing, of course, is the judiciary, the judiciary, the prosecution, and so on. We, aware of this problem, started with the office. The office began to function and, thanks to the Office, which is a government office, everything in Slovenia began to talk about this issue significantly more and the public is also more sensitive to this topic. Last but not least, the government's efforts, as well as the Anti-Corruption Office, are the anti-corruption law and the anti-corruption strategy, as well as the police reorganisation. In short, a few of these activities have been carried out, some of which have been carried out, and of course there are also individual cases that are discussed, are also discussed because the office is active and because individual institutions are more active. And of course, with regard to this assessment that I did not say anything, for the first time in press conferences several times, I also gave an interview today and you will certainly be answering this interview for TV Slovenia, a special topic was the fight against corruption. And so today, we are talking about corruption. And I agree that this is one of those problems that need to be discussed, that corruption must be combated and done in order to reduce it. To think that corruption is growing, but I think it's a little too much. You just need to look at the data, including those in relation to this index you were talking about. Indeed, this index is lower in 2003 than it was in 2002. It was 6 that I speak of course, index Transparency International about this probably you are talking about. But you probably know how old he was in 2001 and 2000. It was 5.5, 5.2, and now it's 5.9. Even though Slovenia is according to this index, without boasting now, far ahead of all the other candidate countries for entry into the European Union and also in all reports, you will see that Slovenia is not particularly mentioned in this regard, even the last European Parliament. It is true, however, that some have specifically tried to refer to Slovenia in this context as something special. I believe, however, that even on the basis of this legislation adopted, based on activities already under way and yet to be carried out, this index will, of course, be even higher in the coming year. For example, let me mention that following this index Italy is also below the level of Slovenia. In short, we are not satisfied with this state that it is. Far from being satisfied. We believe it is necessary to adopt the law that you have in mind. I think it's due tomorrow. To take into account the broader debate, including the comments made and made by the opposition, the need to prepare a strategy, and of course to strengthen the responsibility of all, both governments and the judiciary, to make more efforts in the context of the fight against corruption, and to raise ourselves on this scale even more and I think that there is every possibility of doing so.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u6	Dr. Brace's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u7	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! You didn't answer the questions I asked. You know, I was very clear: How do you feel about what Mr Penko said about elites, where you judge, of course? Another time. On 4 December, this month, a resolution was adopted in the European Parliament on the fight against corruption, for which it would be good to look at it, because it calls on governments not only to adopt laws and establish offices that cannot do much on their own. Since you have not been specific enough, I ask you to be very specific now, because I will not be able to ask again. Dr. Schuštar, State Secretary in the Ministry of the Economy and a member of liberal democracy, has been convicted of corruption, and the judgment is not yet binding. In his statements to the public two years ago, he stated, quote: "In the time of the Bajuk government, official documents were copied, strictly confidential documents, that the transfer of these documents to column TR3 was organised," the end of the quote, where the seat of liberal democracy was also mentioned by your name. Dr. Schuštar repeated his statement last week, but this time he didn't mention your name. Not two years ago, and now you haven't denied his statements. Does this mean that this copying really happened? Since I will no longer have the time I have said before, and the right to speak, please answer this path very clearly to the question: At the time of the Bajuk government - this is to remind you, from 7 June to 30 November 2000 - when did you ever meet Dr. Schuštar, speak to him on the phone, or otherwise communicate? Thank you in advance for the clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u8	Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u9	First of all, as far as your question is concerned. In the first part, of course, you didn't ask me what you're saving for the second half, and that was expected. Therefore, there may only be a comment regarding the public opinion survey. 6% of people met with corruption immediately after this survey. As for the assessment of the involvement of elites, any elites, these elites may be narrower or wider, even the National Assembly, I think it is entirely inappropriate for me to give such an assessment myself. If and if anyone thinks it's any narrower circles of elites, maybe someone who's here between us, and me, then I'll point it out to the authorities. I myself estimate that as far as this circle is concerned, if I can call it the elites, we cannot talk about what would be in general and what was considered to be included in any elite. It seemed more like an excuse for finding that relatively few people were directly involved in or met with corrupt phenomena, but of course because they could never know. Of course, I don't know about such direct cases, at least not such cases as to avoid being followed by specific responsibilities. As far as this particular case is concerned, which you are talking about, because of course I will not comment on the court's decision, not the case itself, not everything that has been tried in this regard. This gentleman, mentioned by you, was, of course, the Secretary of State and, of course, met with many of the parties, and probably also from your client, whom he was with, not least, I think the Secretary of State was also with your Minister, so it is quite possible that I have ever met him and it is entirely possible that he also mentioned this in this file, but never, never, ever participated in any of these activities, which I would like to show.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u10	Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u11	Dear Prime Minister! In the context of the issue raised, what will be the government's strategy to sell or take over state-owned enterprises in the light of the new European guidelines on corporate acquisitions? - I just want to update in the past two years the questions raised by Members, which I have received formal answers to, but not substantive ones. I'm asking again. What development strategy is implemented by the government and through it by the state funds in the paper industry in Slovenia? Why does the government allow the KAD and the SOD, which together have a 70% capital share in Paloma, to play an inactive management role? In the evening newspaper and information on Paloma’s website, it can be found that Paloma does not achieve the intended profit. However, it can be heard from non-official sources that, for example, the non-economic and ineffective implementation of investments actually makes the Director a bad company. In 2000, the government I led by capitalisation of almost 2 billion tolars provided the conditions for successful further development of this factory and prevented the planned cheap takeover of Paloma by an undisclosed so-called strategic partner from Slovakia. For the third year, we have been reading that Paloma's management has, for its main purpose, sold the company to this company from Slovakia. We have information that these days such activities have been revived. We read in the newspapers that Director Palome wrote to you, quote: "Paloma is no longer able to continue its investment to such an extent, so she urgently needs a partner or owner who will support the development programme and is willing to invest." We also read that the representatives of KAD and SOD in the Supervisory Council said they were not going to invest a tolar in the development of Paloma. Mr President: Do you not think it appropriate that the government, under the leadership of liberal democracy, if it has not already cared about anything, at least before entering the European Union, could have one primary issue of shares through which, for example, Slovenian investors could take care of the recapitalisation and development of Paloma? Interest rates in banks are low and Slovenian savers have no place to invest their savings. Tomorrow, the European Parliament will address the European Takeover Guidelines, which will, on the basis of a 14-year effort by Germany with the assistance of Sweden, Denmark and Finland, unify the acquisition rules and allow for acquisition barriers such as gold stocks and so-called toxic tablets. I therefore expect today to answer the raised question on a case-by-case basis: What policy has Paloma taken over and with this development of the paper industry in Slovenia have you ordered representatives of SOD and KAD to implement? How do you see it in the light of the new provisions of the European Takeover Guidelines? We will also be able to draw conclusions from this case on your entire policy of taking over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Dr. Bayuk. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u13	Thank you so much for asking. So, as far as KAD and the SOD are concerned, we've really responded several times, and I believe you haven't been satisfied and you probably won't this time. However, KAD and SOD were not set up to manage individual companies and to attempt to actively influence the management of these companies. In particular, the Court was set up to settle denationalisation obligations and, as you know, later, the Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence also gave rise to additional obligations of the Court of Justice and, of course, it has enormous obligations under this Title, and its primary concern must be, of course, to ensure, within the existing portfolio available to it, the maximum value, on which it can then service these obligations properly, in order to minimize, of course, the public debt and the transfer of this part of the obligation directly to taxpayers or to the budget. I can tell you that the SOD has so far given the beneficiaries 109 billion Slovenian tolls of obligations, I am speaking of course of the denationalisation bonds and the victim law I mentioned earlier, and, of course, it has already paid 48.6 billion tolar interest and cash instalments. In short, it is an exceptional obligation and, of course, the management of the assets of the SOD is subordinated in this context. This means, of course, that it tries to optimise on the one hand the obligations arising from the appropriate liquidity required of it and, on the other hand, to ensure through the policy of so-called 'blue-chips' the corresponding, slightly longer-term investments that enable the SOD to pay these obligations, and this is the key task of the SOD. On the inside of this, of course, there can also be a discussion of the individual company's management of the shares in these specific cases that you are talking about. If I'm talking about KAD, we also know what obligations it has and, of course, how it has to service them. He has done a number of things so far, but he is awaiting additional commitments, planned, in line with the strategy, both to the STD and to the reorganisation of the entire KAD, including in connection with the craft fund, which we have already talked about many times and which you have asked about many times. At the moment, I hope that the project is close to completion at the Ministry of Finance, so that we can then present this concrete project. As for the particular case of Paloma, it's very difficult to say. At the time of the transfer of shares, half of the shares - I am telling you now because you did not predict this part of the question, but nothing bad - I think that half of the shares that were owned by the State went to the CAD and half to the CAD, so that in fact they both decide together on the fate of these shares and, of course, in relation to this, apart from this instruction that I spoke about, do not have specific instructions, in the context of the implementation of industrial policy or the promotion of the development of individual sectors, because this would mean that we are subordinate to these two primary objectives and the tasks that set up these two funds, to another objective that needs to be pursued in a different way through the budgetary policy of subsidisation and, if you want, also in the work of tax policy. As far as the takeover law is concerned, of course, we all know that just before the current adoption of this directive, the new takeover directive. Now I could tell even history, but I won't, because I don't have time for how we passed the takeover law. Of course, we are monitoring the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which is responsible for what is being adopted within this Directive, and within these groups of freedoms, which the new directive will give in the context of defence mechanisms, we will also go along with a proper addition to the existing law. However, what is important, for large, closed companies, those who have gone through property transformation will be subject to this solution, which we have decided and is also in the securities market law and concerns the transparency of business and all the conditions that must be met when taking over. This means mandatory bids for the acquisition and, of course, the public of the prospectus and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u14	Please, Comrade Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. The government owns 70%, but there is no strategy for our paper industry. Additional question: When can we expect to see changes and additions to the takeover law protecting a small shareholder, protecting state capital and orderly development of the Slovenian economy, and taking into account the new European guidelines? When are you just going to resubmit the takeover law you've been preparing for two years to the National Assembly? Two years have passed since everything before the legal and transparent management takeover of BTC. At that time, Prime Minister Drnovšek promised, on the basis of my question of the Member State, to regulate acquisitions in the company takeover law. Minister Petrinova did not react until after a bad year, when she informed the public that her working group had prepared such changes, but first wanted to address them with [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] She did, but after this consideration she postponed the takeover law for a year, in fact until the end of this year. In October, the government introduced amendments to this law into the National Assembly without aligning them with the proposed amendment to the securities market law. The changes to this law have also been prepared by the government for an extremely long time since the time of the SIB affair in the National Assembly. Not to take account of the changes in the above-mentioned European Takeover Guidelines. At the same time, the Contracting Government’s lawyers called on the Government or the National Assembly on the Day of Lawyers in Portorož to see that legal changes to the Law on takeovers were so bad that they needed to be withdrawn. First, they contributed to a bad marriage and then called on the government to withdraw it. The government is ashamed to mediate such products to the National Assembly, and the law has withdrawn. How long, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u16	Please, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u17	Thank you for that comment. The takeover law has been a great deal of attention, and there has been a lot of discussion about it, if you remember, many parties have had a number of comments, and regardless of the fact that if you look at the regulation legally throughout Europe, that Slovenia was among those countries that had practically already taken account of the second version of the 13th European Union Directive on takeovers. Very early, we adopted some of the rules that were foreseen and related to transparency of business. Not until recently, at the end of the 1990s some other countries, such as Germany and the like, have summarized this law. However, there is a very active debate in the European Union within the Council of Ministers, a difficult discussion for competitiveness is now under way, and this is all a European theme. The whole of Europe is also seeking a path during the liberalisation of purchases and sales and acquisitions and, of course, defence mechanisms. It's normal for us to have big discussions here. No matter what, I can and I hope that's true. We will work together to see that this version is now being corrected by the end of January and will come with these additional supplements resulting from the European Directive. As for the comments you are talking about, I would just say that maybe some of these comments are mainly from those who do not want this arrangement and therefore say that the law is not well written because they fear this transparency that this law undoubtedly brings. But I believe and I agree with you that it would be better if we had this marriage some year ago and we accepted it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u18	Okay. My colleague, Dr. Bayuk, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I asked you what is the government's strategy for one particular company in which the government is responsible for 70% of the share [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u20	Comrade Dr. Bayuk, is it procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u21	I'm not happy with your answer, and I've asked you four times. [[...]] Therefore, on the basis of the rights conferred on me by the Rules of Procedure, I request a public debate. The government has no position on this particular case, no position on taking [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u22	We understand, Comrade Dr. Bayuk, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u23	and is playing, saying that this is a European discussion, but it is not a Slovenian discussion. [[...]] This is where these things have to be resolved, in the National Assembly. That is why I request a public debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u24	Good. You have the right, within the framework of the Rules of Procedure, to request or propose a debate on the response of the Prime Minister to your question. We will decide on this without discussion tomorrow when we move on to the decision on agenda items. So we can move on now. Comrade Štemberger now has a question for the Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u25	Thank you for your word. Dear Prime Minister! Last week, the European Environment Agency pointed out that Slovenia is the only one of the ten Central and Eastern European accessions and candidates for membership in the European Union who is expected to fail to meet this year's target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions as required by the Kyoto Protocol by the signatories. More than that, not only will Slovenia not reduce emissions, on the contrary. The calculations of the European Environment Agency show that the share of greenhouse gas emissions even increased in Slovenia in 2001 by 1.4% according to the level of the selected base year 1986. In addition, the 2010 projections show that greenhouse gas emissions in Slovenia are expected to be 9.6% higher than in the selected base year, which means that Slovenia will not meet the target, that is, 8% reduction in emissions. It is a sad fact that all other countries have managed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions significantly in 2001, with the exception of Cyprus and Malta, and the candidates for membership in Bulgaria and Romania in Slovenia. The European Environment Agency, for all 9 countries that have been successful in 2001, also predicts further reductions in such emissions for 2010 and the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol. Only Slovenia is a black sheep who does not want to do so as the USA or China or the government cannot implement the Kyoto Protocol, which provides that Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia must achieve an 8% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions between 2008 and 2012 in relation to the base year chosen by each country, while Hungary and Poland must achieve a 6% reduction under the same conditions. Six accession countries by 2010, without difficulty, achieve target reductions, of course with appropriate and effective environmental policies and environmental measures. These warnings by the European Environment Agency are even more sad when we remember how grateful we were when, in the negotiations to join the European Union, we first closed a chapter on the environment among all candidates. Dear Prime Minister! I want to know: What measures is the Government preparing to achieve the Kyoto Protocol's objectives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u26	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u27	Thank you so much for asking. Thus, the European Environment Agency published a new assessment for Slovenia days ago, and on the basis of this assessment, it follows that Slovenia is not expected to comply with the Kyoto Protocol, which is an 8% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. According to information provided by the Ministry of the Environment, this communication was developed by the Agency on the basis of the data given in 2001 relating to the period 1990/1996. And on the basis of the trends that you have been talking about, the government has adopted a 31.7.2003 operational programme to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. And the basis of this operational programme is also our Environment Agency, which has also established a special service for the preparation of the greenhouse gas emission register, estimates that it is possible to comply with the Kyoto Protocol in time. We will also be particularly familiar with the European Agency in this report and, of course, try to ensure that its position changes accordingly. Otherwise, a number of measures have already been taken in the past both by sources and by individual commitments under this operational programme. I propose, of course, that we present this operational programme specifically to you in writing, that we present this to you by the Ministry of the Environment and, of course, that an assessment be made of whether this operational programme has been prepared, whether it is appropriate or not, and we will certainly reply in writing and in detail.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u28	Excuse me? Procedural or complementary?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u29	Complementary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u30	Complementary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u31	If I understand correctly, it is said that we did not provide updated data to the European Environment Agency. Then the shame is so much bigger. Who will be responsible and what will be the consequences of not being able to provide data in Europe and then being evaluated on the basis of these unscheduled data in Europe as some kind of dirtbags who do not care about their environment, even less what kind of environment we will share with our craftsmen. And, if you don't mind my asking, you've been to visit China recently, and I'm wondering: Did you warn a representative of one of the largest greenhouse gas producers there that a global approach to the ratification and implementation of the Kyoto Protocol was needed, and what was the possible response by China? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u32	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u33	Good. I would say that my assessment is that it is not so much what the agency thinks, but it is whether we have this issue in Slovenia. What is our task is that we do not have this emission in Slovenia to prevent it and that we have a clean environment, and this is the whole problem. However, this agency did so on the basis of these 2001 reports, and in this report these were the data that they were. It is clear, however, that during this period Slovenia has made these movements, which are necessary and allow us to adapt the actual situation to the required state and Kyoto Protocol that we have signed. To convince you, we will send you an operational program, you will be able to look closely and you will see and perhaps also see that the Kyoto Protocol in Slovenia is being implemented. As for the visit to China, I had no opportunity to visit this producer, so of course I could not give this warning, but otherwise it was intended for some other topics, particularly the promotion of the Slovenian economy on the large Chinese market.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u34	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your cooperation under this item on the agenda. Ministers and ministers will now answer other questions. First, they will answer the questions addressed to them at the 29th, 30th and 31st meetings of the Minister of Finance and Education. First, he will answer in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the Minister of Finance. We'll do it in a row. First, the Minister of Finance will answer the question of mag. Janez Drobnič on an unfulfilled tax administration decision. It was set up at the 29th session. Anything else you'd like to add, Master Petty Officer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u35	Mr President, I think it is right that, just for a moment, I repeat the question, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u36	Take [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u37	also according to the meeting or conclusions of the last college we had with you. [[...]] Just for a little while, so people know what I'm asking. In 1997 the tax administration issued a decision concerning irregularities in the accounting of taxes and other obligations in the company, or the company Ljubljana pawnshop, Lombardy house, financial services Ljubljana. The tax administration carried out an inspection and identified a type of irregularity in respect of the payment of taxes and indemnity in the calculation of other obligations. Therefore, by decision, it also imposed on that company the payment of various remunerations, i.e. obligations, late interest, rental taxes, from 1997 onwards. It can be concluded from the documentation that the general deadline for the enforcement of the decision is too late. In fact, in these years, the Advisory Board has done nothing. I want to know: What are the reasons why you did nothing at the time of the execution of the decision? And two: How many cases like this have happened in the Ljubljana pawnshop? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u38	Minister Dr. Marble.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u39	Yes, thank you very much for asking. Although we also answered this question in writing during my illness. I'm sorry you didn't get the question right away. This is an example that, in accordance with the tax procedure of an individual case, I should not mention - but I will tell you the general elements from which this intervention will be shown. This Tax Procedure Act now provides that the right to recover tax, the taxpayer of the costs of forcible recovery, is obsolete within five years of the year in which they would have to be recovered. The taxable person may voluntarily fulfil the obligation within the time limit laid down by the law in the decision imposing an obligation on him. If, for example, this taxable person received a decision in December 1997 and the time limit for fulfilling the obligations expired in January 1998, the relative limitation period for the commencement of the compulsory recovery commenced on 1 January 1999 and expired31. of December 2003 Now, that's not all. However, since, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 97 of the Tax Procedure Act, the limitation of the right to recover tax, interest and recovery costs ceases any formal act of the tax authority intended to recover, and the debtor has been informed of it, for example, that is to say, the declaration of claims in the enforcement or bankruptcy proceedings, in which case we cannot talk about the statute of limitation, since then the statute of limitation is no longer valid, and the deadline to which the limitation is due is 10 years. So, the case you're talking about, it's based on these general legal provisions that he's not out of date yet. There is still a question of how many of these cases where there has been an outage - there has never been an obsolescence of tax liability.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u40	It's a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Of course, I completely disagree with your answer. For example, in order to take 10 years to recover this, this is certainly not in the interests of legal certainty and the reliability of financial transactions. If the decision has already decided how much, then within a reasonable period of time citizens are expected, in particular the State, to recover after 10 years, forced settlement and bankruptcy may also take place. If this would turn bankruptcy, of course, it also means lost funds for the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u42	Dr. Marble, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u43	Surely you are absolutely right, so according to these determinations, as was the case here, the tax authority also has a rate and, say, a claim in bankruptcy proceedings, as was the case in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u44	Here is the next question, and it was also asked by Comrade Drobnic in connection with the currency difference due to the exchange of euro bonds. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. I asked such a question at the time, but I did not get the reasons given by the president of the National Assembly, or by the minister. The issue of euro bonds, the first issue of total value, was in 2001, 325 million U.S. dollars. Following the expiry of the old debt payment, the government issued a new package of euro bonds, which led to a change. Actually, that's when you decided to change your currency. With this currency change, the state of Slovenia or the government has lost a lot of money at the expense of inter-currency changes. I ask you kindly if you can explain: How much do you think these estimates are due to the change in currency from dollars to euros and who will be responsible for this decision, who is responsible for this wrong decision? Next: What procedure for selecting the best methods and forms do you have in the government, do you perhaps have an insurance system for unforeseen inter-currency changes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u46	Minister Dr. Marble.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u47	Thank you very much. If I can start with this logic, which is used in the management of sovereign debt. In addition, the objective is to provide in due time the financial resources that are provided by the debt when there is, say, a deficit in the budget, and of course the logic is also to provide such a structure of government debt that ensures as long as possible a lower level of exposure to market and macroeconomic risks. In the meantime, there is also exposure to changes in the foreign exchange rate. In addition to the long-term optimization of funding or servicing costs, the predictability of debt servicing costs is particularly important in terms of the stability of budget implementation and fiscal policy stability. Since 1998, especially since 2000, the implementation of that strategic objective has been defined by minimizing the effects of inflation change and exchange rates on the size of the tolar debt, on its growth dynamics and on the level and variability of debt servicing costs. And if we compare now the annual rates of growth of exchange rates and inflation over the period from 1996 onwards, as well as the volatility of the Euro-tlar, dollar-tolar, and the volatility of the TOM movement, we see that the dollar-tolar exchange rate has been much higher compared to the euro-tolar exchange rate. Therefore, the cost of servicing the dollar debt is significantly more unpredictable than the cost of servicing the euro of the denominated debt. These movements are also in line with monetary policy, the objectives of which were driven by the changes in porfela, which are said to be in favour of the euro. The additional reason for the change in the monetary structure of debt in favour of the euro is also the minimisation of macroeconomic risk. Let's say it's due to possible negative external economic shocks on the balance of payments using the natural instrument to adapt the foreign debt portfolio's currency structure to export foreign exchange inflow structures. We have the euro, so it's logical that most of what we have in debt structure is in euros. Furthermore, an important reason for the gradual change in the structure of foreign debt in favour of the euro would be the future membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU and, consequently, the future takeover of the euro as a domestic currency. When the ERM 2 regime enters the ERM 2 regime, due to the exchange rate policy set for this period, the exposure to the euro’s bankruptcy risks of the debt denominated will be very low. At the time of taking over the euro, the entire portfolio will be denominated in domestic currency, the euro will then and, of course, virtually disappear from this aspect of the currency risk. These effects of the strategy of past years are now evident from the trends in debt servicing costs, interest payments, and even if we include indexation interest, both in the share of total budget expenditure and in the share of GDP since 2001. Despite the fact that Slovenia's net indebtedness increased to an absolute extent during this period, of course due to the coverage of the deficit in the budget. The relative reduction in interest payments is due mainly to three elements, namely the gradual change in the structure of nominalism-oriented financing instruments, the abandonment of indexation, the gradual change in foreign debt monetary structure to the euro, and, last but not least, the reduction of interest rates in international financial markets and the reduction of interest rates at home as a result of nominal and real convergence in the EU approximation process. If I try to say this more simply, it is simply that the state cannot afford speculation in changing the exchange rate. The country must lead a policy that minimises the risk of exchange rate changes. And if we look at it this way from 1999 to today, in three years, the dollar has grown, in two years, and in three years, the euro has increased. And, of course, the state must seek balance in terms of predictability. State-level speculation is not appropriate in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, two more questions await you. Excuse me? Complementary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u49	Look, I didn't get a response to: Who made that decision? Then: Is any procedure in place for the best methods and forms? Ter: Do you have an insurance system for inter-currency changes because in the world they have it? I also want to know: Are you thinking about a public debt management agency in order to get these things done professionally? I agree with you that, as far as this is concerned, conservative policy must be pursued, so that we are not at risk. Of course, I asked you, given that you've made your decision. This decision, however, meant, given the inter-currency ratios, the loss of more than 20 billion tolars. And that's a fact we can't deny. That's how much she lost Slovenia. Due to the Slovenian Government's decision to reduce exposure, but at that point, it had actually made a wrong move. From now on, it may be different because we are also entering this monetary financial area of the European Union, but that decision was unfortunately bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u50	Is there anything else you'd like to add, Dr. Marble? Let's move on. Would you like to add something? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u51	I'd just like to respond quickly. Well, that's why I didn't make up my mind at the time, but I think it was the right decision. Well, professionally speaking, it was the right decision. Do we use risk insurance, exchange rate changes? Yeah. And in this year's year, we actually used these first instruments right in the dollar, so we use them. Of course, you must be aware that in advance changes in exchange rates cannot be forecasted in an effective market such as this. So we're using them. Agency - we've been thinking about her. For the time being, I believe that the professional management of the Treasury of my Ministry, which I run, is also a professional one, and this also shows a reduction in the actual interest or interest paid by the State compared to the expenditure or comparison with the gross domestic product. However, one day such a decision can be made in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u52	As we say, two more questions, Minister, are waiting for the 29th, 30th, 31st session. I'm a colleague of mag's first. Exploitation of local community financial obligations. Would you like to sum up the question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Since I have already asked the oral question to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, in his absence, allow me to place it again in a reduced form. Local communities face major difficulties in implementing the budgets adopted, as the revenues flowing into the budget are lower than planned. This is mainly about the impact of the building law and changes to the value added tax law. In one of the Slovenian municipalities, it is about 350 million. At the same time, there are new legal obligations that increase expenditure. I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: How do you plan to break the gap between the increasing obligations imposed by the State on local communities without providing them with financial resources as well as reduced revenues, if not already eliminated, at least narrow down? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u55	Thank you so much for asking. Well, this is undoubtedly a very hot issue after the adoption of the law on the implementation of the budget and will be discussed very seriously in the government. Now, a direct answer to your question. The amount of eligible consumption per capita is duly valorised each year, i.e. in the law on the implementation of the budget, with an estimated index of prices of living needs. In each financial year, however, the amount of eligible consumption per capita is further increased by the additional tasks assigned to the municipalities by the individual existing or newly adopted sectoral laws, at the proposal of individual ministries. Thus, in 2001 the amount of eligible consumption per capita was further increased by 1851 tolls per person per capita, i.e. to finance social protection tasks for 409 tolars per capita, i.e. for this so-called home aid, for 311 tolar subsidisation of rents, for pre-school education for 823 tolars per capita and for basic education for 308 tolars, relating to school transport on dangerous roads. In 2002, the amount of eligible consumption per capita was further increased by 1033 tolars. In order to finance primary education tasks for 233 tolars, this was again for school transport and preschool education for 800 tolars. However, the amount of eligible consumption per capita for 2003 was further increased by 2562 tolars. In order to provide additional funds to municipalities to finance cultural tasks for 830 tolars per capita. It was a new law on librarianism. In the area of municipal activities for 1,200 tolars. And in the housing sector for 532 tolars. In view of the findings of the municipalities that laws which impose additional obligations on them in specific areas are adopted, an analysis of the additional obligations imposed on the municipalities by individual sectoral laws will be prepared in the following year. This analysis would determine the actual extent of these additional tasks and, as a result, an appropriate correction of these additional tasks or the amount of appropriate consumption per capita can be made.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u56	Complementary question, colleague of Potrata. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You yourself mentioned the debate under the law on the implementation of the budget. The debate highlighted the fact that all congregations are not in the same position. Indeed, it is also possible to hear that municipalities should resort more to the search for new, own financial resources, and this can, of course, mean that the burdens of citizens and citizens will increase and that there will also be considerable differences between the municipalities. I'm asking you: Is it also possible to count on substantial consideration of the root steps in the Law on the Financing of the Communities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u58	Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u59	In view of this analysis that we are going to do, one part of the analysis is already being carried out, namely with regard to municipal services, their organisation and their price, and at the same time this analysis, which I have already talked about, will be the basis, one of the bases, not all, because we will teach some other things to change the law on the financing of municipalities, which I think is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u60	Thank you. My colleague Tsukati asked the Member State's question about wage burdens compared with the European Union. A summary of the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. Mr Minister, during this year's debate, the budgetary debate, you have repeatedly stressed the need for a tax reform in which wage relief and capital taxation are expected to take place. We have certainly welcomed this, because Slovenia is at the top of the wage burden, our wages are the most taxed throughout Europe, which is why, despite the low wages, the competitiveness of our work is very poor and therefore some traditional companies are actually closing down with us, and capital is moving to other places where the burden of wages is lower and similar. At the same time, however, there was a public debate on health reform, in which the Minister of Health paid the highest attention to the abolition of voluntary additional health insurance and the introduction of a mandatory new salary and pension tax of 4 %. This somehow sounded like a whole discussion of health reform as a red thread or as a parade horse of health reform. Before we received a health reform in public debate, it was said that it was coordinated in the government and therefore also in your tax reform project. Somehow, however, we do not see this coherence and it seems to us that on the one hand you are promising to relieve wages and on the other hand there is an additional new burden on wages and pensions. For this reason, I would like to ask for an answer to the question: How do you feel about this or how you plan to reconcile these two completely contradictory projects? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u62	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u63	Thank you very much. They hold your claim that in Slovenia we have a very burdened labour force, let's say tax burdened and otherwise. This is why we have undertaken this tax reform, which I have already discussed many times, and perhaps to illustrate what the results of this tax reform will be, perhaps in the end, with regard to health reform. First of all, this burden of wages on individual EU countries and countries of accession and candidate countries is comparable, I would say that only the only comparable methodology is the Eurostat methodology and the available data show that currently in Slovenia the wage burden for the employee is higher than the EU average of two percentage points. In Slovenia, taxes and contributions on labour costs are 39.8%, while the same ratio on average for EU members, 15 of these existing members, is 37.8%. In accession countries and EU candidates, taxes and contributions account for 41.1% of labour costs, i.e. even more than in Slovenia by 1.3% on average. The new Income Act will lead to a partial payload in Slovenia. Calculated according to the Eurostat methodology, the share of taxes and contributions in labour costs will decrease from 39.8%, as now, to 37.9%, so there is an average burden on the European Union. It is clear from the calculation that the share of taxes and labour costs in the average wage due to the new income will fall from 46.42 to 45.96%. And now, of course, here is a simulation made for different tax classes as well as payment classes. The simulation of the new income system shows that the available net income of an individual with an average salary, taking into account only general relief, will increase by 1.29% if we do not take into account even greater allowances for children. With minimum wage, taking into account another child, its net income would increase by 54%. So this essentially relieves the tax burden of work. On health reform, however, I would say: the government has put the White Paper into public debate. Now, public debate, its results point to the need for further completion of this White Paper and health reform, so that it is now premature to talk in essence about what health reform will finally be agreed on, because this public debate has given very clear direction in some areas, and these are, of course, in the direction of change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u64	Please, my friend Tsukati, an additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u65	If you allow me, I understand that it is now a draft health reform, a draft White Paper, that there is no more current basis for further discussion - or it is still. And I believe that the Ministry of Health certainly does not carry out this function in such a frivolous manner that an uncoordinated text that would not be a serious basis for further work would, in fact, keep life alive for so many months and would always be referred to again and again. I still want to answer from you: Is this basic intention of health reform real or not? Is it still worth the debate or should we forget it?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u66	Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u67	There's something about basic intentions in this white book. If you ask me, the basic intention of replacing this mandatory additional insurance with a contribution has come up with a lot of criticism and, of course, another thought is needed here.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u68	Okay. Minister of Finance, you answered four questions that you owed to the National Assembly. Three others are waiting for you in the next session. The Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Slavko Gaber, will now answer two delays. On the question asked by colleague Ana Marija Tisovic on functionality, literacy from the 31st session and from the same meeting of colleague Tanka. First, my colleague Anna Maria Tisovic. Please. Would you like to give your colleague a summary? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Since there was no minister last time, I didn't ask him a question, but I just announced it, so I'm going to say the whole question today. We have been talking about the functional literacy of Slovenians for some time now. In fact, since the results of the international study on the functional literacy of Slovenians were published about four years ago. These were very bad for us, not to say defeat. Already in February 2001, I asked the government representatives what the government's strategy was to improve this poor situation, if not a catastrophic situation. I was then answered, quote: "I can gladly answer the question that the reform or renovation of the Slovenian school system is being done in the direction you have pointed to" - the end of the quote. You weren't the minister back then. And today, almost three years later, our experts in this area find that there is no significant change for the better. When I attended a public tribunal in Cankarjev dom in early November, which was organised by civil society, in a three-hour debate at the almost full Ših Hall, I heard very little about the situation of the functional literacy of the Slovenians. They found that although Slovenians have a lot of knowledge, we obviously do not know how to use them. It is known that our students in international competitions from individual subjects achieve good results, but when this knowledge of different subjects needs to be integrated into the whole, there is already a problem. I do not understand how our government imagines a knowledge-based society - this term is very often used - but if the usefulness of knowledge has changed so little for the better. You probably have a bunch of drafts, strategies to improve this situation faster. Therefore, I ask you: Is this strategy already definitively set so that the issue will begin to be systematically resolved? The public tribunal has made it clear that this issue is not of much concern to politicians. Is that true? I assure you that I and many others are concerned that our citizens will also be prepared to enter the EU and its labour market in this area. Or do you share this concern with politicians in the ruling coalition? I would not say so, since there is a known indication that almost half the money it needs for existing adult education programmes in this year is foreseen for the implementation of programmes. Mr Minister, I ask you: Do we have a comprehensive strategy to improve the functional literacy of our citizens? Do we already have certain institutions to implement this strategy? What are the deadlines for achieving the objectives set? And of course, most importantly: Do we have the funds provided? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u70	Please, Minister of Education, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, in particular Mrs Marija Tisovic. First, let me say that the research you are referring to took place in 1998 and that the results reflect the situation it covered that year. Today, just a few years after that, we can see that much has changed in the field of education and education in Slovenia. The most important change that we have witnessed and is already measurable is the fact that today there are significantly more people with education that goes beyond secondary education in Slovenia than there were then. This number is greater than 70,000 and the increase we are recording is about 60% of these people. The number of those who have managed to achieve at least secondary education has also increased significantly. Why am I pointing this out? Because all international studies point to the fact that there is a strong link between the literacy of the population and the educational structure of the population. As we speak of our population as functionally ill-written, we must be aware of the fact that this applies mainly to the years that are similar to our years that we are here in these areas. The fact that we find in the background is simply that we have too few people who would have at least four years of high school and what goes on. Since we have managed to make a movement in Slovenia in the last decade in a certain direction, especially since 1995 things have started to move faster, we are convinced in the government that the most important part of the change project in this area has begun to run and that we will substantially repair this picture in a decade. The second fact that I would like to point out is that we have already changed the concept of language teaching in the wake of the curriculum. That from the so-called grammatical and structurally based approach to language, we have come to a greater extent to teach a language in which the ability to speak is more considered to be the ability to express ourselves in writing and so on. So there has been a new approach here for several years. And when you talk about who talks about results that don't improve, then I would like to point out publicly that there are no such results. The international survey will have to show whether it is true or not. So if we add to this the fact that today is being educated by about 22,000 adults, this moment, in different programs and getting a higher education, then it seems to me that the path is the right one. Of course, we are still far from being able to deal with the very top of these countries that are ahead of us in this area. The younger generation will also need to survive this hunt for higher standards, and only the children of these generations who have been in schools recently will be able, I hope, to have an equal quarrel with those who have already reached 80% of the population decades ago, for example in secondary schools such as Scandinavian countries, and who are now recording more than 30% of the population who have more than secondary education. This means they are involved in tertiary education. All of these measures, which are only combined, including with a read label, combined with adult education, outside formal forms of education, give hope that we are going in the right direction, and I am grateful that you have brought this matter to your attention. By the way, we also raise funds from year to year for this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u72	Complementary question, colleague Ana Marija Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u73	You know, when I was on this round table, one of the professors at the University of Ljubljana said something. In her second year, she had a student on the exam who couldn't tell her three sentences in a quarter of an hour. And when she asked him, "Yes, sir, how did you get such a high education so far?" He said, "In college, it's my first oral exam. I've only done tests so far." What's the comment on that, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u74	Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u75	Now, look, the anecdotes themselves are rather difficult to comment on. But if they're looking at generalization, that we have too few oral exams in our study, undergraduate exams, then I can probably give in just as much as you warn that it would suggest more direct work with students and students. I hope that this will also increase our resources, because this is largely related to the higher education envisaged in the coming years, at least partly to be done. So, one example, of course, cannot tell how it is everywhere. Let me tell you, it's very different. Most likely there is a substantial number of work, and a frontal and written one, in colleges that are very mass. And it's very much reversed in colleges, which I'm not going to name here, and where students are also very few, and they're fighting to make the number of those who study significantly exceed the number of those who teach them. So the situation is different, and let me take this opportunity to actually call for people to take the opportunity to make better contact with professors also in those directions that will be in the long run - I mean technology, I mean science - with certainty - to offer, not just that, but also that, a lot of jobs in Slovenia. That's obvious today from all the statistics.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Comrade Jože Tanko in connection with school reform. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I say hello to everyone! With the start of this school year, all primary schools had to move to a nine-year-old age, ending a very long period of adjustment and gradual implementation of this school reform. Nevertheless, this reform has sharply cut the family rhythm so far, has put a considerable burden on the smallest children, much earlier with regular and consistent planned content, has brought early obligations to families, and has sometimes significantly changed the conditions for the implementation of the pre-school and school programmes. There was also a need for extensive additional investment in the preparation of the premises. In practice, we also face problems with the introduction of a nine-year-old because there are too many people in kindergartens, and there are also problems with extra space, as it is not possible to replace one generation quickly and provide other programmes. In particular, smaller municipalities are in trouble, and these changes also show up at much higher service prices, and the burdens are exclusively divided into parents and municipalities - in kindergartens. There are also problems in schools, as this change makes it impossible to ensure a continuous process of education, and schools are forced to prepare schedules with interruptions, which also results in significantly poorer supervision at the time of school and students, and in this case students are quite free and leave to a large extent their own initiatives. There is also a much higher burden on students, since children in the same age group also have a substantial number of weekly obligations between nine and eight years of age, ranging from two to four hours in the same age period. I don't think this burden is the best. I wonder: What are the trends in primary education in Europe? I would also like to ask: Does the Ministry have the reform costs necessary for the preparation of a nine-year-old, which had to be provided by the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labour, as regards the surpluses - municipalities and, of course, the educational institutions? I also wonder: What are the responses of parents to the introduction of a nine - year - old? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u78	Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! In Slovenia, among the most recent trends in Europe, we have extended compulsory education to more than eight years. This means that very little can be found in countries where we would have moved so late to compulsory schooling, which is nine years old or all of them up to twelve years in different countries across Europe. We decided to do this in the '90s, somewhere around the mid-1990s, after a thorough debate. When these discussions followed us and when legislation was adopted in 1996, we began to prepare teachers and teachers at work in this primary school. And in 1999 for the first time in autumn, we started to introduce a so-called nine-year primary school. We introduced it gradually, i.e. round and round, an increasing number of schools were involved in this process. In order to verify the news on the one hand, on the other hand, to gradually ensure spatial conditions in Slovenia and to train the staff in such a way that this process can be completed as normally as possible. Today, we find that this progression made sense that we have taken force into account the relationship between overstepping and overspeed. This is one of the art of school reform, which is not particularly successful in all systems in general, I think that in other reforms this is one of the major problems, or one of the major challenges. The assessment, both of which we receive from monitoring as well as the other from evaluation, both of which run parallel to introduction, shows that the general view is that the nine-year-old programme is good; that the atmosphere in school collectives is positive and that parents also believe. Each year, they are asked in particular that, when there are some minor problems, some minor problems; when it is necessary to adjust the schedules to be searched here; that the fact that we would like, for example, to have in the first grade, in the lower classes of the elementary school a teacher with a teacher not only in the first grade but also in the second class, and not only half of the time, but would like to have it throughout the whole period and another number of facts that point to the need to be built up. However, the assessment that, in view of the important efforts made by both municipalities, the State and teaching collectives and school management, this project is well on the way. Thus, the evaluators, the expert groups do not see any major problems. Of course, we have invested a lot of money in this too, this is not a particularly big secret. For the purpose of renovating school premises, about 23 billion tolars have been invested by the State, now that the year is up to the end, in all these years. Our calculations show that about 30 billion are in the process of renovating school premises, of course, and in 1994 until now, for this period I am speaking, about 30 billion have invested in this congregation. Some claim that all of this was done because of a nine-year-old. I'd like to warn you, of course, that's not the case. The standard was generally raised throughout the country in different areas, and among other things we raised the standard in schools. Not just because of a nine-year-old, but because we want to create better conditions for this young population than we had ourselves. Of course, it's not the only cost. The additional cost that the State has taken from the municipalities is the cost of the staff. The extra class is in school, and the cost is accordingly higher. We have worked well with the congregations, I know, not without problems, but I think we will continue to do so and thus allow normal compulsory education in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u80	My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u81	Thank you. The fact is that the country only took about half of the staff from kindergartens, while the other half of the staff faced the problem that it no longer had a job because the department moved to primary school, one teacher who was half-time employed, the other one became higher, and another one became higher, as only one of the two classes was made. One thing. The second thing is, it's because of this reform in kindergartens. Since the rest of these fixed salary costs, which are related to resistance, are exactly the same and are now divided into fewer children, the unit costs have increased significantly. Thus, the cost of protection has been undermined, and the burden that has now spread has completely fallen on the congregations and on the parents. It's just one of the taxes of reform. That's a fact. Because now that we're dividing the director of the institution, the assistant agency, the powerhouses, the janitors that are left, into a smaller number of children, the price of the services becomes higher. That's for sure. The next thing - and I didn't actually get the answer - is that this reform has also brought additional burdens on children. That is, as I said earlier, comparatively between two and four hours, depending on which class we're looking at. That basically means one school day more than an hour. And it also brought from one to three extra items to the class. I have a school program here, and that's what it says in this program. It is said that an increase in the number of hours for children and an increase in the number of items as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u82	If you'll allow me to begin with the answer to that last question of yours. You asked me about trends in Europe. Slovenia is also after increasing the number of hours children are supposed to spend in the classroom, still in the last part of the countries, when compared with the fifteen after this burden. Most importantly, less than average, our children are in school, even when we include work on homework, this is still the case. I am afraid because I know that this is one of the silent rivers that flows and some also encourage it in this area to do harm, the greatest harm to children, and we will make it even more substantial if, in a small amount of time, we demand comparable knowledge from them with the knowledge of their peers in other countries. It is not possible to do something else about it, rather than create a neurotic situation, both in relation to teachers and children. This information is available, and we will also provide it in writing. So I warn you: this is not a game to play with; in less time to learn more, it means to create a certain climate in school. We've moved a little too little into this field. In fact, this may be a dilemma. But if I answer another part of that question. You point out that some objects are now part of the helm. Foreign language, second language, he used to learn outside the regular hours, but that doesn't mean we didn't learn him. Certain subjects that are currently selected objects are now inside, but we have previously paid them out of school, now this is taken over by the state itself because this is part of the curriculum structure. That way we raise the standard, of course, it's not free. If I answer the question of colleges and kindergartens. Look, when we talk about whiskey, it's like this: sometimes we have them, of course, it's not a mass phenomenon. We have them in particular where the population has fallen, because we also went into raising the standard in preschool education, and this was not the case as a rule. More children are included in kindergartens, and a higher proportion of the population is in kindergartens. And our calculations show that the municipalities are not overburdened because, once again, the country -- I warn you -- has taken on an important part of one year, one generation also in kindergartens.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u83	Let's move on with the questions. Colleague Maria Possonec will ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All present and welcome. Mr Dusan Kebra, Minister of Health, I ask: Why did the Ministry of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Activities not authorize professional associations: the Chamber of Health Care of Slovenia, the associations of nurses and health technicians of Slovenia to maintain the register of nurses, midwives and health technicians, and the authorisation to work alone for nurses and midwives who are employed in the country? In this way, the School of Health would also have the right to exercise professional supervision over healthcare workers. I hope you don't mind me saying that maybe in this case, the Black Wood thing wouldn't have happened. The report of experts from the European Union who visited Slovenia last year contains, among other things, their findings that there is no active register of nurses, midwives and health technicians who are employed in our country. The professional association has already been exposed to the register of all healthcare providers. Registers and registrations are suspended abroad by professional associations. We see this in the neighbouring countries, too, in the case of a register of doctors run by the Medical Chamber under section 31 of the Medical Service Act. To think about it, it might be just the following. Our population is old, health care has greater responsibilities every day to care for people with disabilities. I believe that a more active role of the Health Care Chamber would help to resolve the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u85	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u86	Dear Mr. President. Madam Members, thank you for asking. Let me begin by saying that at the Ministry of Health, as in other departments, we agree that it is not only necessary to relieve the state and the ministry, but that many of the functions performed by the State could be better carried out by the institutions entrusted to them by the State. That is why we are already in 2001, this is in the first year of this government's mandate, then following a decision by the Constitutional Court - to prepare an amendment to the health legislation, where we have settled the issue of powers for the chambers and professional associations, including, of course, the Health Care Chamber, which you are asking the question today. Well, then it happened that another chamber, a chamber of physiotherapists, asked the Constitutional Court a question about some of the articles of this law, and the Constitutional Court held back the exercise of the mandate of the Chambers until it answered the question of consent or compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia of this Act. Since then, or since then, the Constitutional Court has not answered this question and is awaiting an answer. If, in two days from now, this same law, which you are quoting, were to address this issue exclusively for the Medical Chamber, of course, we would avoid the constitutional court order, but at the same time we would not solve or discriminate against four other chambers, who also rightly expect to obtain their powers and their role. On the one hand, we expect the Constitutional Court to respond to the question raised by the physical therapists' chamber, and on the other hand, as you know, we are preparing a law that will be a global law on health, which will be a new way of answering this question in the coming spring. And this is also the final, final deadline on our part, when we will be able to arrange these things in this way, as you mention them and as we wish. Let me mention that, of course, the Black Wood Chamber affair could not have prevented. The establishment of the Black Forest did not have the necessary powers, nor did it have the Ministry of Labour, if it were to work in this area, nor did it have any other powers, so that the supervision function performed by individual chambers in this institution was not possible. However, we explained that there was a possibility in this institution that the fundamental monitoring function performed by the health care sector health care sector at the level of basic health care was possible. In short, we are confident that in the near future we will achieve much better cooperation among all professions in the field of regulation and control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u87	Okay. Thank you very much. Comrade Petan will now ask the Minister of Economy a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Days ago, we were able to hear from the United States Government and its representative that Slovenia is on a list of countries that will not be able to run for Iraq's reconstruction projects. We can only be subcontractors there. This is because we have not been, I call it, active participants in solving the situation in Iraq. In fact, it was only for verbal support, because we also verbally stated that we are against it - but still. The government was defending the position that was mediated or demanded by some of the "retirees" that I put in the slogans that the government is paying for anyway - one way or another. This view also made our foreign minister the target, who also drew attention to Iraq's post-war reconstruction. He pointed to it directly - but well, he was the target as the bad guy. My question concerns this very fact. Madam Minister: What will you do to make our companies present? The fact is that in 18 billion - dollar transactions, of course, this business would certainly be fine with our companies. On the other hand, I would also like to hear you say: What were your expectations about this postwar reconstruction of Iraq and that our position was as it was? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u89	Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, especially Mr Petan! As far as this Directive is concerned, as has already been published, it does not essentially preclude the participation of Slovenian companies in the reconstruction of Iraq. We must be aware that Slovenian companies are relatively small in comparison with others - I am thinking mainly of some European companies and of the countries of the European Union and, of course, of the US - relatively small and, as such, probably could not negotiate to win the competition as a leading company, which would then cooperate and then organise all other suppliers in carrying out a particular business. Also in our interviews with our companies, we find that, of course, their intention has been to cooperate more or less as subcontractors, because you know that other companies are important suppliers to important industries, whether we are looking at the automotive industry or in tools and so on. That's not how the door is closed. I must say that it is at the beginning, because we have always worked with Slovenian companies, and we have also organised a special working group in the framework of the Chamber of Commerce, and the interest in the beginning has been quite clear. Well, but then again, and that might be the most illusory indication of the following information. We have been informed through the Madrid Embassy that two conferences will be held in Madrid in October: one for donors and the other for businesses, I can say, from anywhere where we would attend this conference in order to verify the interest of the companies involved in the reconstruction of Iraq. We have provided this information through the Chamber of Commerce to all companies that have initially shown interest, as well as to those who, in the past, have collaborated - in the past, 10 years ago - with this country. Well, based on the information we sent to these companies from the Chamber of Commerce, this was the 20.10. reply that, according to our information, no Slovenian company confirmed participation at the above-mentioned conference, which I have just talked about. I must say that I also personally engaged myself, and lastly, two companies attended this conference. In short, we are working with the Economic Chamber on this issue, and it has also been very involved, as you know, by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs through its consular offices, and we estimate that it would now be too early to give an assessment of how things will go forward. But right now, this interest -- as I said before, given how many of them went to Madrid -- shows relatively bad. And also at the invitation of the Chamber of Commerce to these many companies, as recorded and reported here, did not receive any response.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u91	Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u92	Thank you. So, anyway - the fact that we're on some blacklist, it's probably already distracting companies. However, given that our companies have been very strongly represented in Iraq in the past, I am not sure that we would not be interested even now. But it is true that if the government messes with them that Slovenia is on the blacklist because of the government's position, it is something else. Moreover, I am not exactly sure that Turkmenistan and Tajikistan, but I do not know what kind of "stop" is yet, but not on this blacklist, and they will have a priority in running for these projects, and there is no need for them to be contractors themselves. Sometimes the American company, which is very small, just ran and then took the subcontractors. Last but not least, we have these cases all over Europe in competitions, and we probably have them at home in Slovenia. But whoever's probably running for office, he's also setting the price. Sub-contractors need to adapt to this and subcontractors are essentially going "lonar byte" [[?]] . The fact is that this position, which the Slovenian government - not only do I claim for you, but the Slovenian government had it - was completely wrong. Serbia was also bombarded because of this view. It doesn't matter what the effect is, it's important that we defy them. And it was the same with us, and it was important that we defy the United States and the United Kingdom, maybe, and then we'll see. At the time, it was cute, but today, when we're on the blacklist, we can read a lot of things to be insulted, but I don't know what it is; we're talking about occupation, but I don't know what it is. We can say that, but that's the fact that now we're just trying to play Calimero and make it stupid like it's nothing. I just want to ask you, Madam Minister, because I cannot ask the Prime Minister and all the ministers: do you or the Government feel any responsibility for such irresponsible action? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u93	Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u94	The government's position was known and accepted. And accordingly, we continue to do so. And I think that all the efforts made by all ministries that can help to enable these companies, to the extent that interest is, of course, expressed. However, I have already documented to you that, unfortunately, for all of us, even personal interventions, where we would allow our companies, interest is relatively low at the moment. That is how I think that the Chamber of Commerce and the two ministries are working in a direction to the extent that this interest comes, so that it can be carried out as much as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u95	That's it. A colleague, Ana Marija Tisovic, will now ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Dimovski, a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! My question concerns the rates of pensions for Slovenian citizens who were part of their common insurance good during the period prior to 25.6.1991 stayed in which of the other republics of the former Yugoslavia. Why do you propose in the proposals for interstate agreements with other countries in the former SFRJ area that Slovenian citizens be extremely disadvantaged in order to take these periods into account as a dose of the proportional part of a foreign pension? As a result of this method, Slovenian citizens living in Slovenia are already receiving pensions from Croatia for the Slovenian situation of an extremely small pension. Croatia, which has spent part of the insurance period in Slovenia, lives much better in Croatia than fellow citizens who have even spent time in their own country. The same form is said to be proposed in agreements with other countries in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. For Slovenia, a favourable solution to this issue would be only if Slovenian citizens, who had supplemented Slovenia in the territory of the former Yugoslavia as part of their insurance period prior to the independence of Slovenia, were to take into account the domestic welfare of the pension. Other countries, however, would equally assume the insurance obligations that their nationals had achieved in Slovenia by 25 June 1991. The minister would also ask: How many Slovenian citizens receive pensions or proportional portions of pensions from other countries of the former SFRY? And: How many beneficiaries with permanent residence in other countries in the area of the former SFRJ receive pensions or a proportional part of the pension and Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u97	Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u98	Thank you very much. This is a very important issue and, in my opinion, a similar question has already been raised by my colleague Vizjak - I think that at the previous National Assembly - and by my colleague, Auschwitz or Member of the Union with a written question. I already said that we have prepared comprehensive information on this issue for the committee, the parent committee. The Committee has also received this information on nearly 22 pages and, in the opinion of the chairman of the Committee, is also expected to discuss these issues, and the Committee is likely to take certain views on specific issues. Let me briefly highlight just some of the things I want to say here on the basis of your question. Indeed, it stems, of course, from the right to pension and pension rights, the right to pension and disability insurance and is based on contributions paid during an active period. The rights depend on the duration of the insurance period and on the level of the wages or insurance bases on which the insured person paid the contributions. This shall apply except in the case of invalidity pensions. Pension and disability insurance rights are subject to the status of the insured under Slovenian pension law. In this case, the insured person shall be a person who, in accordance with the pension law, is legally or voluntarily involved in the pension or invalidity insurance, irrespective of nationality. However, the acquisition and the amount of the pension are conditioned by the domestic law of the State under which the insured paid contributions to pension and disability insurance, irrespective of where they lived during the active period. The 1997 Agreement on Social Insurance between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia provides in Article 36 that the benefits which the competent holder of one State Party has recognised under the legal provisions of the former SFRJ by 8 October 1991, taking into account the insurance periods supplemented by the legal rules of the other State Party, shall remain the obligation of the competent institution of the State Party which has also recognised those benefits. This means that the person who completed the pension period before October 1991 in the Republic of Croatia is paid the pension by the Croatian competent holder of the pension and disability insurance. However, since there are differences, as you said, in the amount of pensions paid in the Republic of Slovenia and in other republics of the former SFRJ, a law on the social security of Slovenian citizens entitled to pensions from the republics of the former SFRJ was also adopted, this is from 1992. Under this law, the pension that Slovenian citizens with permanent residence should receive or receive from one of the other republics of the former SFRJ should be awarded an allowance from the State budget. This supplement is intended to provide these persons with the same level of pensions that Slovenian pensioners and people enjoy a decent life. By 1974, the Federal Home Records Act had been in force, on the basis of which data were collected on the nationality of employees in the territory of the former SFRJ. On the basis of this record, some 21,000 Slovenian citizens worked in the territory of other republics of the former SFRJ. These are the grades. After that year, the area of the home records was transferred to the Republics and they kept records in accordance with their regulations. Since 1974 Slovenia has only data on insured persons, regardless of their nationality, who have been employed in the territory of Slovenia. However, we have information that you have also requested about pensions paid to the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia by SPIZ. According to this data, 10,600 pensions and 301 pensions in the Republic of Macedonia were paid to the Republic of Croatia in November 2003 for pension and disability insurance. This is with these two countries with which we have a social agreement. In view of the relations with the individual successors of the Republics of the SFRJ, in many cases a procedure for concluding agreements, the so-called social security agreements, has also been initiated at their initiative. These are usually concluded on the basis of international law. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] If you'll allow me to finish? [[...]] Given the scope of the problem, which concerns not only social pensions and other rights, but also health rights, these negotiations are extremely difficult. However, let me ensure that in these agreements we want to ensure the maximum level of payment of pensions for our citizens, so that this negotiation is likely to take so long. Let me warn you again, or let me say that we are [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] with all the data available and with all the problems arising from this title to other relations, this information will be summarised in this information, as I have already said, at the presentation and consideration of the parent committee. I'm sorry, I gave a slightly longer answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u99	Thank you, Minister. Let's go to the next question that only colleague Bevk to the Minister of Transport will ask. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. Our country decided 10 years ago that one of our most important projects is the construction of highways. The results of this project are good, despite the fact that we have already spoken critically several times in the National Assembly and have also changed the priorities we have set out at the time. As a strategic objective, we have written that the construction of the highway network should enable better and more efficient movement of people, goods and services both in the territory of Slovenia, i.e. between the regions themselves and the most important economic centres in the country, as well as in the wider European area. But that's not enough. The resolution on the national motorway programme must also be followed by a programme for the construction and maintenance of state roads. The country has only taken the motorway programme seriously and the network of state roads is ignoring it, as is evident from the huge number of amendments that we have been putting forward by Members and Members for many years in the consideration of state budgets. We need to follow consistent regional development, as the type of areas in the country does not have an adequate road link to the highway network, to mention only Idrija-Cerkljanska and Soča, the link to Kočevsko, White Krajina, Savinja-Salej region, Koroška, Zasavje, Posavje, Pomurje - and could also mention. The absence of a strategy and the lack of funding for the reconstruction of state roads have already caused a number of negative consequences, mainly reflected in uneven regional development. It is amazing to note that almost 40% of state roads are already within the settlements. Instead of preparing comprehensive projects, short sections of 2 km or less are designed. However, interventions in one place and the like are very common. Minister of Transport, Mr Jakob Preseknik, I ask: When will the Ministry and Government adopt a national programme for the construction and maintenance of state roads? At the same time, I would like to raise the following questions: what will be the main starting points of the national programme on the basis of which the sections of expertise are based? [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Designed program? [[...]] What will be the objectives of the national programme? What will be the priorities and dynamics in the implementation of the national programme? Finally: What will be the financial resources for the implementation of this programme? I thank the Minister very much for his reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u101	Thank you, colleague Bevk. Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, of course, for the question. I must say that you have already mentioned in the introduction that the country has been paying the highest attention in the last decade both to the construction of the motorway network in the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time or in parallel, it is of course reconstructed, renovated and built on a new one and also maintains the rest of the state road network in the Republic of Slovenia, from the new categorisation in 1998 onwards, about 6,000 kilometers - something over. Before that, these state roads were about 1,100 to 1,200 kilometers less, and they were municipal roads. While the so-called municipal roads or roads that are managed by individual local communities, individual municipalities - I think about 15,000 kilometers. This, of course, means an extremely large fund, a road fund that is needed and maintained and, of course, must, at the same time as you have already mentioned, also follow or enable the development of individual areas, or individual cities, individual locations, or at the end of individual regions. Of course, it is also a matter of road connections, very important connections, in those places, in those sections, in those areas, in those areas that are not likely to have a better or faster or motorway connection or connection to the Slovenian motorway network and to the motorway network of neighbouring countries for a long time. So, of course, the Ministry of Transport, through annual programmes, with annual proposals for state budgets, is trying to solve the most pressing issues throughout the country and, of course, is doing so in terms of financial opportunities. I am speaking within the framework of the financial options, as you have already identified in the question. Therefore, the Ministry of Transport, together with the directive at this time, is intensively preparing professional bases for the drafting of a proposal, a kind of resolution on a national programme or national programme. Thus, professional foundations have been ready for several years, but they are also being renewed, being renovated every year because both road conditions and, of course, needs are changing. We therefore estimate that it will be possible to present this revised professional basis at the January meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment of the National Assembly, which also made such a request when considering the draft resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways at the meeting earlier this month. So, after this presentation to the Infrastructure and Environment Committee, the ministry will continue to work on this national programme. In the event that it is possible to determine a single starting point for which I cannot now answer, as you have put below your question - on funding and so on. So when this starting point can also be agreed to answer, of course, we will try to propose this national programme to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the end of next half-year, that is, 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u103	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I see you're not satisfied with the answer. Do you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u104	Thank you very much. With this part of the answer, of course, I am satisfied, but I would like to ask the Minister again if he can or if he can say more about possible financial resources for these projects. Indeed, the most recent major projects financed in the State Roads area were from the previous mandate when the country leased a loan to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the so-called rehabilitation of individual sections of state roads. I would like to know, Minister Presecnik, if there is anything more you can say about the financial basis for further reconstruction of state roads. Thank you very much. Are we actually just going to wait for the state budget or are there going to be any other funds? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u105	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u106	Well, first of all, if you'll excuse me, I might be able to answer another point. Indeed, we have set ourselves the task of not addressing in this national programme all of them, as I mentioned above, 6,000 kilometres of roads at national level, state roads, but of excluding from this quota from all these roads those most urgent projects in important links, in important areas for which we find that normal budgetary funding in the foreseeable future is not possible to finance, and for which another funding must also be found. So, what will these forms, credits and so on and which loans, that is to say, this is a matter of preparation this month or including next month and also, I would say, a consensus on the government itself or with the Ministry of Finance and on this basis will be given an appropriate proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u107	Thank you, Minister. And here comes the question of a colleague of the Victory of Jelinčič Noble Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The interpretation of Article 64 of the Law on the taxation of the profits of legal persons on the basis of the legislator's intention in practice has proved unclear. Various solutions are being implemented, which in fact constitute a violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms - equality before the law, equal protection of rights - as well as the retroactive application of legal acts which affect rights already acquired. The fact is that on the day of the entry into force of the law, this is 15.1.1994, there is no legal person in the Republic of Slovenia who fulfils the legal conditions and benefits tax relief for the start of operations. For legal persons benefit from tax relief on the day of payment of the tax invoice, which is, under procedural law, the last fixed or legal day, 31 March for most legal persons, and 15 April for a smaller number, an exceptional number of exceptional legal persons. In view of the above, it is possible to conclude that only if the conditions under which a legal person would have the right to benefit from tax relief are met on the date of application of the law until the expiry of the period after 21 and 24a. Article of the Law on the Tax on the Profit of Legal Persons. The Ministry of Finance, in its explanation of 4.4.1996, which was also provided to the then tax service: we believe that the taxable person who obtained the right to enforce, reduce the payment, the tax levied, in accordance with the provisions of Article 21 of the Law on corporate tax, retains this right also after the enforcement of the Law on corporate tax, Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia No. 72/93 and 20/95. However, in our country in the Republic of Slovenia, this applies only to one another and not to the other. So I ask the Minister of Finance, how long will this distinction be? Is it a particular political bullying on the one hand and political gifts on the other? Is it sometimes even a crime? After all, it is a fact that some people have been tried or prosecuted and some have been put in their pockets.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u109	Thank you. Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u110	Thank you very much. This question is also raised with regard to a very specific company from Kostabona, and I also received 9.6. from Member of the Tribal Helinčič Victory. And I also answered 15.7.2003, and I think that this content of my answer was different than that question is now. And in that sense, what you said as an explanation, by the Ministry of Finance, is true. However, the Tax Office of the Republic of Slovenia also took over this interpretation and then forwarded it to all tax offices. And what you said is essentially that this tax relief applies to profit tax even later, not only on the day that this profit tax law was enforced. It also takes into account this interpretation of DURS in its operation. There was a second problem with this company. And that was the problem of whether here is a fictional element, essentially the fiction of a seat in a demographically endangered area. Therefore, according to the domestic statement; did this company have only its seat in the demographically threatened area and operate its business outside the area? And here was a dispute in which Durs thought it was a fictitious seat and therefore ordered a profit tax. This company then complained. The complaint was rejected by the tax authority and then appealed to II. the extent to which the complaint was rejected by the administrative court, which has ruled as you have now said that the company should have applied relief before this corporate tax law was passed. This was the interpretation of the administrative court, and then the company complained to the Supreme Court, which now has this at its disposal. We do not yet have the result or conclusion of the Supreme Court, so now it would be difficult to determine where it is, who it would be appropriate, or the administrative court or Durs. So what you say is true, and Durs also took over, and this corporate office that was here was talking about, at least in the letter you sent me, he took that into account. The problem is fiction.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u111	Thanks for the answers. Victory Jelinčič, yet he wants an additional question?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The fact is that this company, Radiel, the owner of this company was born in Kostabona, lives in Kostabona, lives in Kostabona, has a seat in Kostabona and I do not know how the seat is fictitious. I think it is a fictitious operation, because it is necessary to be aware that if someone works electrical installations, it is certainly not limited to work on electrical installations alone and only on Kostabono. This would be foolish, for those who bake bread in Kostabona should not eat bread or should not eat it outside of a demographicly threatened area or should leave that bread in a demographically threatened area and buy a new one. In short, it's a very perfidious bullying of certain people, because I was talking about inequality. I have here a table from the main tax office, from tax to profit of legal persons, when it is quite clear that since 1994 and 1995 the tax industry has distributed in 1994 almost 3 billion and 400 million of these benefits and in 1995 - 2 billion 255 million, while some do not give anything. That is to say whether we have a legal state which will have the same vat for all or we will have some kind of divisiveness that increasingly points to one very strange country. I agree that this is from the Drnovszk regime, but all the pigs actually go at that time. However, I hope that the current authority and this area of finance will be, Mr Minister, that you will settle the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u113	Thank you. Minister, would you like another word?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u114	And the answer. The problem here is that simple settlement under the tax procedure law is not possible. That's the problem. In such a case, however, if that is the case, then the only option now is the Supreme Court and its verdict, or in its view the two elements of this judgment are essential. First, whether it's a fake seat or not. And secondly, does it matter when, in fact, someone was applying these tax reliefs? These are two elements and we no longer have any other options at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u115	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The question followed by Bogomir Vnučec will be asked by the Minister of Environment, Space and Energy and at the same time the same question to the Minister of Transport. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, ministers and ministers! Regardless of the absence of Mr Kopač, I would like to ask his answer at the next meeting, because at this stage of the question that I will ask him, he is essentially more competent than Mr Preseknik. But I think he will also contribute to this issue. In particular, the programme of the Gorenje motorway is nearing its end, but the key part of the Radovljica is still not appropriate, which is still not clearly defined as to what the proposal for a location plan will be and, as a result, still stands. The problem has been known to the professional public for some time now, since the completion of the caravan tunnel, the ministries have taken it out at the end of 1995, and the general public is known when citizens or nationals are standing in an uninterrupted standing column, in traffic corners in the summer season, at weekends, and now almost every day, in the morning, when they leave for work, or when they return at afternoon hours. Also because of delays on the Ministry's side, since the problem has been tied down for eight years. When public disclosure or comments were made in the year, at the end of 2000, the local community made its comments, but only recently responded to them. It took two and a half years for the competent services to respond to the local community's comments. Now these two ministries blame the local community for not wanting to compromise, to insist on unacceptable and so on. On the contrary, however, the local community adopted other conclusions this September, and it also accepts the compromise offered by the State. More importantly, why are the ministries offering a compromise solution first? This was January this year, and they refer to it, and after the government has taken a decision on what this solution is, regardless of the fact that the local community has also found it necessary to find a compromise solution, it still advocates the old solutions from 1998 to examine the proposals of the local community and, if it finds that they are appropriate, also takes account of them. I think that this is a transfer, because the municipality, the local community, because of the long-term procedures, the incomprehensible deadlines for responses to economic damage, indirectly and directly, because this part, where the motorway will be installed, is extremely important for further spatial planning, especially in the economic field, so of course capital is avoided, and is thus directly and indirectly damaged, if not for another, and for at least 500 jobs. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Minister of Transport. Part of the answer that concerns you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u118	Well, thank you so much for asking. So, of course, it is difficult to specify in this short time all the procedures that have lasted all these years, as you yourself have mentioned, and all the problems that have, of course, been there. All I would say is that, with regard to the preparation of the site plan for the motorway at the section Vrba-Peračica, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined the material and has adopted an appropriate decision in this regard. This is one of the conclusions you mentioned earlier. The government took note of the conclusions of the municipal council of Radovljica, with which the municipal council insists on an in-depth version of the motorway route at the Vrba-Peračica section. Or willow-nigger. But he is ready to accept a meaningful, compromise solution. The Government instructed the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy, the Ministry of Transport, and the DARS to examine the requirements of the municipal council of Radovljica prior to the preparation of the proposal for a local plan. Where they prove to be environmentally, spatially, transport-technically and investment-friendly, such solutions should be taken into account in the design of the professional basis and in the harmonised proposal of the location plan. The Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy shall, when submitting a regulation on the national location plan for admission to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, inform the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of how to comply with the requirements of the municipal council, or of the reasons why the requirements could not be complied with. Thus, such conclusions and guidelines have been adopted in this regard. The conclusions of the Municipal Council, however, run counter to the observations made by the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Environment, Space and Energy. However, for the first time in all years, they suggest that it is possible to harmonise the highway solution with the local community. The Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy have therefore decided to develop a project verification of the partly in-depth variant of the motorway route, to evaluate it professionally. As far as it proves to be acceptable for transport, technical, investment, spatial and environmental, and at the same time acceptable for the municipality of Radovljica, to prepare a proposal for a regulation on the location plan in accordance with such professional grounds. So, I estimate that, of course, we are with this coordination, both between the two ministries and the DARS, and with the Radovljica municipality, that we are at some point in the possible agreement. However, for the agreement, we will, of course, have to be all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u119	Thank you, Minister. Do you still want to complete the question?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u120	Yes, thank you. Well, I didn't get the answer to the question, maybe I wasn't clear enough. You have now read the conclusion of the government, which I have already mentioned. I expected the government to accept what it was offering. The government has already offered a compromise solution, as far as I understand it, so Dars has been authorised by both ministries for a partially deepened route. Why now reexamine whether you have not had enough time to study this? On the other hand, within more than ten years, since the beginning there have been three variants in the game, and somehow this south-eastern one has been deleted, and there have been northern and southern ones, whether the ministry has taken ever, or both ministries, all of these three options seriously, and also examined all the possibilities. Because if the Ministry were to examine these options in detail and then the local community proposed or explain the weaknesses and advantages of all three, it would be much easier to find a compromise solution than to insist on some positions which were not, I must say, by the government here are professional enough, because they are based only on a price solution, but not on an environmental, environmentally friendly one, but most certainly on citizens, because there are more than 10,000 people in this vicinity of the motorway. And we keep repeating it in this national assembly in all laws, in all other proposals, that the local community must be taken into account in particular, and it is obviously ignored here, and so is the question. If there has also been serious work here on other options that would have been the same, because we are not saying that it is necessary to overestimate costs, but at the same time, this major failure to insist on government, which is that this government proposal goes to the detriment of people.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u121	I'm still giving my word to the Minister for Answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u122	So there were, of course, many variants, including evaluates from, so on the basis of all the criteria. The price criterion is only one of the new, at least four main, so I said towards the end that it is important that we are at the point where compromises can also be concluded. Not only price compromises, but also compromises on other criteria for putting the route into space, once, of course, locational, and, secondly, nivojska. So that I, as far as this procedure is concerned, forward and end this procedure by adopting a government regulation, am optimistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u123	Thank you. Davorin Terchón will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, as you said, I am asking a question from the Minister of Agriculture. My question on the matter is related to a much-concerned topic, which stretches like the yoke of a snake and is linked to the irregular situation in Kobilna Lipica. I myself made quite an effort a while ago to try to improve this situation a little bit and make things better. I am alone, and I am evaluating now that such normative approaches are needed, i.e. the amendment of the law, as well as the interventions themselves operational on the ground in Kobilanica Lipica itself. Mr Minister, you have also made a public declaration on the last round table, where it was organised in Lipica, that changes to the law are not necessary to make the law a good one. I would like to point out, however, that at the beginning of this year, a programme of protection and development was finally adopted, which I think is a fundamental document of the future development of Kobilarna Lipica. Which, in my opinion, does not answer the fundamental questions of the future development of Lipica, but was finally adopted, not after six months, but after seven years of the adoption of the law. In view of your position, I have therefore found that, despite all of this, you have not foreseen sufficient resources for the implementation of the protection and development programme in force until 2006. That is why I myself have proposed amendments to remedy this situation and to provide Lipica with the necessary resources to implement the protection and development programme, which was also adopted by your agreement, approved by the government by 2006. Unfortunately, this amendment has not been adopted, so, Mr. Minister, I ask you, and you yourself have not proposed these funds for Kobilna Lipica, how do you plan to fix, to remedy the financial and other situation of Kobilar Lipica, given that we know that there has started to accumulate losses there, I will say, periodic reports that it has begun to sink, that is, in red numbers, to rent loans to pay workers' wages, that workers are literally living there, that there is an irregular situation in the collective itself, that we have two hotels from which one is closed and the other very poorly occupied, and that even news has begun to appear in the public that Lipica will start selling herds because of this condition, although we know that there is not even a number that has been identified in their previous strategic documents? Since I'm running out of time, I'll proceed with an additional question. I'm asking for the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u125	Thank you. I give my word to the Minister. Here you go, Mr. Franci Booth.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr Member, for asking the question. Of course, these are full of misinformation for Lipica to start selling the base herd, these are information that spreads around just so that they have absolutely no basis. Our Ministry is the one that provided in the budget of 205 million in 2004 and 210 million in 2005 for its so-called part of the implementation of the most urgent scope of protection of Kobilarna Lipica. This means that it is the resources that our ministry devotes to Lipica for the existence and development of the Leipzig herd and some other activities in this regard. However, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is certainly not competent and not obliged to finance other activities, all other activities of the Institute. The provision of natural value, cultural heritage, the development of secondary activities in accordance with the programme of protection and development must be taken over by ministries which, under the law on Kobilana Lipica, are responsible for their monuments in that part, to the same extent as our ministry. We, as we say, provide 205 million, the second year 210 2005 and all these years we have also provided this. I think about 50 million a year is still provided by the Ministry of Culture. All of this is also all that this country contributes more or less by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This is what is called the implementation of the smallest amount of protection of Kobilar Lipica. This means herds or herds of Lipicans, to the extent provided for by law, care, care, health care, skill test, lipic training, training of riders and so on. We, too, regret, regret that your amendment has not been adopted, because in this way we would implement a more comprehensive programme of protection and development. However, I think that this programme will come to life with the whole government's support when there are also ministries, including ministries of environment and space, and some other, to the same extent as the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, contributing from budgetary resources, its share. Thus, the structure is designed and regulated. However, it is certainly necessary to emphasise, or here I would like to add, that your amendment, in order to allocate 300 million in 2005 to start the renovation of hotels and golf courses, may be somewhat premature, because the national location plan for the Kobilarna Lipica area must first be adopted. Indisputably, though, you hold two truths. One is that Kobilna Lipica did not become a national pride and symbol, not because of hotels, not because of golf courses, but because of the Lipica and horses. Secondly, it is necessary and reasonable for all ministries within the government to once again sit and see how they will also contribute their share to what is called the preservation of cultural heritage and some space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u127	Thank you, Minister. Comrade Tarchoon, you have a word for an additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u128	Mr. Minister, I always listen to the same answers from you and from the other competent ones. But you can see for yourself that you are most responsible for Lipica. You took her under your protection from the Ministry of Agriculture. You didn't answer any questions. If you have approved a programme of protection and development, then why are you not providing funds? Why do you regret that my amendment was not, by the way, and you didn't give him any support? It wasn't accepted. And I don't know how you'll ensure order in Lipica. I said there's a catastrophic situation, it's a shame and you're responsible for it. You've accepted the government yourself that this will be under your ministry, along with the others. I expect you to be responsible for something, Mr. Secretary. Imagine what coworkers you have in Lipica and what you do to make eating as it is. But sooner or later, something will have to be done. I have a feeling that you're waiting for the end of your term to end, that you're going to go out there and roast everyone together and leave Lipica the way she is. That the situation remains unchanged, that the workers continue to live, and that the situation will be the same as it is now, which is unacceptable. Why didn't you suggest I ask you that, Mr. Secretary? Where will you get the money to make Lipica live? What are you going to do with your loss in Lipica? When will you arrange to run Lipica? You said yourself you were responsible. Talk to those you have in the government that are also in the world, don't leave them alone, say that changes to the law are not necessary. You would accept responsibility yourself, but you will find that you are the most responsible. If you are responsible, you are also responsible for this situation. Eliminate this disgrace, Mr. Secretary! It's up to you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u129	Thank you, Comrade Tarchon. Minister Franci Booth, you have your word again.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The part for which the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is responsible is, to some minimum extent, financially covered by the support of our ministry. The other tasks will certainly not be financed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the future. And this is what needs to be made clear, and these are also the practically large majority of the funds allocated by the Government to Lipica. However, I agree with you that it is also necessary to do so by some other sources, partly by culture, even to do more than just talk about Lipica and to participate financially in nothing. What is the Ministry of Agriculture's task is to bring together a herd of Lipicans, and what our ministry provides to a minimum, along with what is part of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u131	Thank you. The question of mags is next. Mr Andrei Visiak to the Minister for the Environment. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u132	Thank you very much. After the bankruptcy of the Cellulose and Paper Factory Videm Krško in 1993, the factory received a new owner, who in 1997 produced an ecological rehabilitation programme that was modified in 2000 and predicted the closure of cellulose or cellulose production in 2003. The Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy gave its consent to the amended programme and issued a decision on ecological recovery. Until the end of ecological recovery, VIPAP Videm Krško is exempt from payment of ecological taxes if it invests in the implementation of ecological rehabilitation. What has also happened, of course, since we have recently witnessed the opening of a new biological cleaning plant, of course there are other investments. A review of the ecological taxes in other countries with such production, namely the production of cellulose, found that the tax is not in Scandinavian countries, the largest producers of cellulose and paper, nor is it in Austria. In our case, the ecological taxes collected by the country greatly irritate the final product, which is cellulose, and put us in an unequal position on the European and global market. VIPAP Videm Krško requested the Ministry of the Environment and Space for the Extension of Cellulose Production until October 2007, mainly due to problems related to the loss of more jobs due to the closure of cellulose production. As it is known, a key condition is the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy, to issue a decision to extend the production of cellulose, so that the owner of the plant takes risks due to possible actions of foreign competition, since Slovenia is expected to undertake ecological recovery in an association agreement with the European Community by the end of 2003. The extension of the production of cellulose in Krk for a few years in order to ensure, of course, other new jobs at that time, the re-establishment of the deadlines for environmental recovery and the regulation of certain emissions would, in the opinion of the local communities, be a good, satisfactory solution that would have at least negative consequences, both in the social and economic fields in Posavi. The interests of our people must therefore be before and always before the interests of competition. I therefore ask the Minister: Does the state really have an interest that, due to the growing problems of unemployment and job shortages in Posavje, because we unfortunately have over-average unemployment and problems where there is too much less quality wood in Slovenia, does the state really have an interest in extending the production of cellulose in the VIPAP Videm Krško factory for a few years, and at that time should we create new suitable jobs? I also ask: Is it possible that the association agreement between Slovenia and the European Community prevents the issuance of a decision or agreement by the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy to extend the production of cellulose until the end of 2007, that is also when Slovenia implements the IPPC Directive of the European Community? As I see, of course, that the Minister is not here, I expect, of course, an answer and an oral response to the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Comrade Vojko Celigoj has a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I have not only a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but the question would also concern the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which I would like to talk about further. Here we go, so the question is that when does our country intend to settle its obligations to the civilian disabled of the wars of Primorska? This is for the victims of the wars at the time when the Italian citizens were between 15 September 1947 and 31.12.1992, which were not settled by the former State or at the national level. During the years following World War II, 3,000 disabled people lived in the territory of Slovenian Primorje, some since World War I. Only him, 1,000, then Italy recognized the status of a life invalidity and paid it up to 1947 and then stopped paying. The obligations of these persons with disabilities have been resolved by Italy in an easy way, through a bilateral agreement with Yugoslavia in 1950 and by a single payment of the advance ordered by Yugoslavia. The final agreement was signed in 1954 by Italy and Yugoslavia, which led Yugoslavia to assume all its obligations to these civilian disabled persons of war. Unfortunately, the payments to the disabled were not from anywhere. Only the Republic of Slovenia granted these citizens a disability in 1992. And ever since then, they've been paying you off on a regular basis. However, the country's debt remains, and this is a success in Yugoslavia's debt from 1947 to 1992. The number of pending civil war invalids has dropped dramatically, from 3000 to only 250, or less than 7, i.e. to only 7% of the total. This is a category of citizens who are already severely deprived of their disability status. Therefore, there is no delay in their rights arising even from international treaties. I'm asking for a written answer. I will, of course, be happy with your lips. I'm afraid there's no minister. And he promised me a longer answer. Here you go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u135	Thank you very much. A colleague, Sonja Areh Lavrič, will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. You have the floor. Someone's got a microphone on.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ministers, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! With regard to recently published data, regarding the number of unemployed persons in the Republic of Slovenia, which was reported to have dropped below 100,000 in December 2003, I am asking you a question arising from the following facts. The Office of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the regulations on the content and method of keeping official records, in the field of employment published in the Official Journal, number 85, 2002, and issued by you, Mr. Minister, deleted from the employment search logs and deleted those jobseekers, or unemployed persons who have a second and third disability. The main deletion, or transcription into other records, took place this year. In this regard, I would like to know how many of these persons have been deleted and placed on other lists from the employment search logs? What authorities have considered these persons, with a second and third disability recognised, to be included in another list, and under what criteria? I would also like you to explain to us and the public, Mr. Minister, whether these persons are covered in the latest published statistics on unemployment, and if not, how much of this seems to have reduced unemployment in the Republic of Slovenia? This raises, of course, the main and essential question, which is, if we follow the same criteria as before the removal of job seekers with recognised second and third categories of disability, what is the actual real number of unemployed persons in our country, and what is the actual real number of unemployed persons in the Republic of Slovenia? And of course, how will employment of these most hard-working people be handled by the employment agency now? Let me also point out that this year is the year of disabled people. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u137	Thank you for asking. Dr Vlado Dimovski, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u138	Thank you so much for asking. Let me say that, in fact, as far as these questions are concerned, I will answer systematically in a way that seems to me that you have also asked so that I can actually speak from the guidelines of the European Employment Strategy, which places great emphasis on providing employment opportunities for those able to work, who also want to work, and actively seek them. Of course, with the help of national employment services, in our case this is the Employment Service. To this end, recommendations from the European Union are being made primarily in order to identify actual activities and at the same time to find employment for the unemployed. The definition of an international organisation of work used by the European Union for the unemployed is very clear that unemployed persons who have been unemployed in the last week - and here this is the so-called surveyed unemployment rate - have not worked such unemployed persons, which means they have not been employed or self-employed and have not done any work to pay, but are actively looking for work, which means that they have applied to the Employment Institute in the last four weeks, have sent an application for employment and so on. The Labour Force Survey shall be carried out by the Statistical Office in accordance with the AELO instructions and in accordance with the requirements of the Statistical Office of the European Union, namely Eurostat, which relates to a harmonised survey on the European Union labour force. Let me stress that this is the only comparable data with the international community. This, of course, allows us to be time comparable to other countries. Contrary to the standardised labour force survey data, the so-called survey unemployment rates, each EU member and every acceding country, and so also Slovenia, registered unemployment as defined in national legislation, and in different ways, are therefore not internationally comparable. Registered unemployment is particularly important for monitoring the structural characteristics of unemployment and it is therefore particularly important that only persons with this status are included in the unemployment records. Let me say that according to Slovenian legislation, the unemployed person registered is the one who is registered at the Employment Institute and who meets all the criteria of unemployment. Active jobseekers are obliged under this legislation to actively search for work and regularly report to the Employment Service. Let me say that it is at every part of the Employment Service, that people who cannot or do not want to actively seek work are also applying to the Institute. Their application to the institution is therefore in the function of exercising rights under other laws. For those persons who are largely affected by persistent barriers to entry into the labour market, it would be inhumane to be forced to report equally to the Employment and Employment Services, with little or no chance of success, in terms of individual employment. Amendments to the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act 2002 and to the so-called Regulation, as you have named it, have provided a legal basis for keeping records of persons registered at the Employment Office under other laws. The purpose of these records was mainly seen by the legislator when adopting amendments in increasing transparency, inadvertent use of funds and in particular efficiency in working with unemployed persons. The new procedures allow for a real picture of the employability of persons who are registered at the Employment Institute. Therefore, it is nothing more - as I should point out - than a transition to another record of appropriateness or the actual circumstances of these persons on a legal basis. What you asked, I'd say that. The Employment Office shall not and shall not classify persons who have been registered in the institution, in other laws, without appropriate agreement with the institution which recognises special rights to those persons. The rules and criteria on the management of the institution, based on the laws of the working group of persons with disabilities, on the basis of the law on employment and other laws, provide for an organisational provision issued jointly by the Director of the Institute and by the SPIZ. Let me tell you, this year's activity started, the activities you were talking about started, where temporary unemployment is detected. The criteria under which you are based are that the assessment works only for persons who have been registered in the institution for more than 2 years. Above all, it is important that an individual can voluntarily and must voluntarily decide to transfer to any register provided for by law. I would have concluded. Such persons do not lose any rights, it is practically a clear definition of records in some way. However, since you asked me what the correct number is or what number we are internationally comparable to, this is the unemployment rate according to the international organisation of work, there is 6.4% of unemployment or slightly more than 60,000 unemployed people according to this data, where we are internationally comparable.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u139	Thank you, Minister. Do you still want to complete the question, or request a supplement to the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Thanks for the answer. However, I am not satisfied with the answer because it is more flat, of course, I cannot go beyond the facts of the more specific numbers and the content that required this question. Indeed, the Republic's growth index at the Employment Institute increased by 1.08 between October 2002 and October 2003 and the employment growth index was 0.95 for the same period. However, you or the Employment Service claim that the number of unemployed has decreased. Of course, it has fallen if you have erased 7,251 disabled persons and 29,243 citizens from your records in this period of the last year for other reasons that do not constitute employment. It is clear from this that as a result of mixing with records, unemployment has obviously decreased only visibly and has in fact increased significantly. This is due to an increased application growth index and a reduced employment growth index. With regard to these facts, this Decision cannot be confused, so I ask you, Mr Minister, for precise information and clarification on my questions, and please, if you prepare them in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u142	In any case, we will also prepare in writing to see exactly how, in fact, these numbers are identified. Of course, I would say something - that in fact a lot of work has also been done in the search and prevention of black work. You probably are not in your own answer or question, so I would ask if we could actually deliver this in writing, in order to be clear. Let me say it one more time. Internationally, the only internationally comparable is this, according to the methodology of the international organisation of work, and there the unemployment rate is practically throughout the last two, three years somewhere between 58,000 and 63,000. This is the right number, with which we are also acting in some way in Brussels as regards the unemployment rate. However, if we are talking about registered unemployment, we can go up or down, but let me mention below that, in fact, only the Social Protection Act has brought in a few thousand additional registered in unemployment records, because these records are primarily intended for job seekers by an individual to prove himself a job seeker, of course, by this law when he speaks of the Employment Act and, of course, the Social Protection Act. But as I said, we will also prepare written answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u143	Thank you. Minister of Culture Andreja Richtar will ask a question from colleague Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. One more good-bye to everyone. In Slovenia, after the last census, there are about 12,000 inhabitants who have been identified as members of national minorities or as members of the Roma community. Of these are 2,258 Italians, 6,243 Hungarians and 3,246 Roma. The Constitution and certain sectoral laws lay down certain specific rights for them. One of the laws governing the rights of nationality is the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. It stipulates in Article 3 that RTV provides one radio or television programme for the Italian or Hungarian national community. Article 5 provides that RTV should cover at least 90% of the territory in which members of Italian or Hungarian nationality live. I am interested in how Slovenia fulfils the rights to both nationalities, I am interested in the number of employees of RTV for the implementation of Hungarian radio and television programmes and in the cost of implementing radio and television programmes for the nationalities communities allocated to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and also to the public service of RTV, of course, separately for the Hungarian and Italian national programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u145	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you very much for asking. In turn, we would try to answer what is our data, and in the second part of the question, we asked for help from our national broadcaster, who also provided us with the data, so that I can read it or tell you. First of all from the budget: the Ministry of Culture in 2003 allocates 42 million 79 000 for the Italian National Community programmes and 69 million 694 thousand 241 for the cultural programmes of the Hungarian National Community, which also includes the regular programmes of the Hungarian National Community Institute for Culture. The financing of these programmes is carried out by the Minority Policy Department of the Ministry of Culture, which employs 3 individuals, one of whom is engaged in funding national programmes and, of course, monitoring their implementation programme. However, as I have already mentioned for the rest of the works, we have asked for national television, which is separate. First, for the Hungarian National Community. The programme of the Hungarian National Community implements 25 regular employees, with 12 contractual associates and 90 occasional employees. The radio programme is broadcast for 13 hours and 15 minutes every day, and the television programme is broadcast four times a week after 30 minutes with the same one-time repetitions on national television. The cost of the programme without investment is 200 million tolars per year, 205 million tolars. For the Italian National Community programme, 126 hours a week is a radio program, 60 hours a television program. The radio is prepared by 59 regular and 20 permanent co-workers and by 93 regular and 30 permanent co-workers. Radio program per year costs 303 million tolars and television 477 million tolars. If only to mention the programme's emphasis: on our national television is on the programme for the Italian National Community, some new programming innovations have been introduced, the main daily information programme has been enriched with new sections, and the new "art television" broadcast has also been introduced in the editorial board of the cultural education and entertainment programme, and the work of the project of cross-border television has been continued. It is also for the programme of the Hungarian National Community: it is carried out through the Moorish Hungarian radio and TV studio Lendava. Among the most important events in 2002 were some of the contents from New Year's New Year's Eve, three radio stations. The Hungarian radio from Bratislava, Slovakia, the programme of the Hungarian radio from Romania and the post-Hungarian radio, and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u147	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u148	Thank you. I would only ask a brief supplementary question. I would like to know why there are so many differences between, say, employees, as can be seen from this and also from the amounts, between Hungary and Italy, between the programme for the Italian and Hungarian nationalities communities. It's a few times the difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u149	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u150	Thank you. I will not be able to answer you, but I suggest that the National Assembly has its representatives in the world of television, which is also the body that decides on programmes, content and employees, so it is probably a little easier to directly raise the question through its representatives in the world of our radio television, to the directors. However, I can also directly ask myself, and for the sake of the Director's well-being, as it has been so far, I can answer you in writing or at the next National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u151	Thank you. Comrade Aloys Sok has a question for the Minister of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I will ask the Minister of Justice a brief question: Until 1992, within the framework of the forest economies, the so-called GGs, there were fundamental cooperative organisations known as currents. There were five of them in the framework of the Maribor forest economy. Through these flows, basic cooperative organisations, farmers, forest owners performed forestry works and sold timber as well. These core cooperative organisations had considerable assets at their disposal. For example, Slovenia’s TOK, with some 327 members, had 22 employees. Among the assets such as working machines and business premises, Slovenian obistriški Tok also had a holiday home at sea, in Crikvenica and in Osankarica. In addition to their work, farmers have also contributed their timber to this property, as well as money for the creation of common assets, and, of course, for the operation of these basic organisational forms of cooperatives. In 1992, a bankruptcy procedure was introduced and a new agri-agricultural cooperative was established, which was established by only 12 former members of the TOK. Then, in 1995, there was a tripartite between GG Maribor, TOK and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. In view of the fact that the former members of these basic organisational forms of cooperatives have not received anything from the bankruptcy process, the question arises: Where is the remaining or who has acquired the entire assets of the TOK? Against the leaders of the then TOK in Slovenska Bistrica, who also became founders of Pohorje's new agri-land cooperative, a criminal indictment was filed. Former members and employees are convinced that a handful of individuals have benefited from bankruptcy at the expense of work and from the loss of the health of others. Mr. Minister of Justice, I ask you: Are you prepared to shed light on this case and initiate an investigation or why, if an application was made to the prosecution, the prosecutors do not deal with this case, which I briefly described? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u153	Thank you. Minister Bizjak, you have the floor for answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u154	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Of course, I'm willing to do everything within the Ministry's jurisdiction to find out what's going on with the complaint you're bringing up. On the basis of the question already raised, we have checked with the Moroccan prosecution what is alleged to be the case if it were still unresolved there, but on the basis of this inquiry, we have received an answer that only these data do not allow us to identify the matter. I would therefore ask you to either use the names of the suspects or in any other way to help the Ministry with this information, so that we can clear up the matter and find out whether it has already been decided, or whether this matter is still among the open issues, as I conclude from your question. You're assuming it's the current state of affairs. So, I would ask for some specific information, i.e. the defendants, or perhaps even a case number, and in this way we could then submit an appropriate reply to the prosecution.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u155	Thanks for the answer. Also Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u156	Now, I would, if I could continue, just say that I have prepared this issue on the basis of a number of reports in the Evening newspaper. That's where the names are written. Also written are the names of those who claim to have sued the prosecution, long ago in 1995, claiming that it was a major fraud. That was a lot of talk at the time. Today, these rumors resurfaced in the media. And that's exactly why I asked that question. So I didn't get an answer to a specific question. I understand that, as Minister, you have replied that you are willing to participate in this, and that is why I will suggest, Mr President, that, in accordance with Article 266(3) of our Rules of Procedure, the Minister's response will be discussed in a national assembly where we will have more time, and we will be able to enlighten from different perspectives. Once again, I stress that this is a major fraud that needs to be cleared up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u157	Bogdan Barovic has a question for the Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! It is quite understandable that direct tax relief is the easiest and most useful way to promote entrepreneurship. It is also quite clear that the worst thing with high administrative costs is bureaucratic distribution of state aid. And what is the picture of us in Slovenia? The State, the government, or the Ministry of Economy, reduces investment incentives for healthy companies. For instance. From this year's 40, as far as I know, to 25% in the coming year. On the other hand, the Ministry of Economy shares grants to those economies that do not create their own resources for simple and widespread reproduction. Otherwise, he takes money from healthy, investment-oriented companies to different companies that disappear after a year or two. I'll give you an example. Those who are no longer going to bankruptcy are also collecting money from the Ministry of Labour for employment of the harder working force, and, of course, they put it all together, as we say at home, on a bucket. In the Republic of Slovenia, they also, unfortunately, bear the greatest burden of wages. But these wages are again where the employees of scientific and research workers, who, due to their quality work and their contribution to the development, investment and creation of profits, are properly rewarded. However, their salaries have been charged more than three times by the State. The latest data, the Forbes magazine, the most taxed people who have wages in our country, say in the development sector in a healthy company, four or more thousand euros, i.e. the most taxed people, according to the source of Forbes magazine, are these people in the Republic of Slovenia, and this in the whole world. I therefore ask the Minister how in the Ministry of the Economy they represent a new development and a new impetus, especially in the event of the fact and transition to the big European market, and in the fact that investment facilitation is declining? And secondly, this is even more important. Is there an analysis of the distribution of state grants? What about those companies they got? How many companies, such as Selda-Pack and similar, have failed despite the large amounts of grants received? And what about this irreparable money? If there is such an analysis, we would be delighted to see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u159	Thank you for asking. Minister of Economy, Mrs Teja Petrin, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u160	I think thank you so much for asking. [[...]] This question, of course, is multilayered. It could be answered by at least three ministers, given that it relates to tax policy, that it relates to labour market issues, etc. Now, as far as investment activities are concerned - so the question was also sent to me - Mr Barovic, to make investments from year to year to reduce. That was the question. Mr Barovic's question, which was announced, was to answer how my vision of development and the growth of the economy is at the expense of investments and the fact that they are falling year after year. I'll answer that first. Investments don't go down year after year. According to UMAR reports, which provides spring and autumn analyses showing economic movements, economic growth and economic dynamics, although there has been a decrease in investment in fixed assets in 2001 and a slight increase in 2002, investment activity began to grow in the second half of last year, and this year it has accelerated and reached 5.5% in the second quarter of the year as much as 7.8%, given the same comfort last year. It was also announced in the spring that the investment activity of the processing activity increased during the second half of the year and a significantly lower percentage was forecast. However, data show that this trend has increased significantly in the second half of the year, namely on imports of specialised machinery for individual industrial sectors. There's even been an increase of 23%. This is much higher than in the same period last year and imports of industrial machinery for general use by 14.5%. These lively investments in equipment point to an increase in production, otherwise the company would not have ordered these machines. In addition, it is positive that it goes to specialised machines, which means that we can expect the technological equipment of our companies to improve with these investments. The second thing I would like to say is that the high investment activity from the first half of this year is expected to be 5.9% at the end of this year, and the spring forecast was barely 3.2%. So we see the dynamics of increasing investment. This is, of course, an important factor in increasing economic growth. I just learned today that there has been an increase in economic growth measured at the annual level. I would also like to point out that, even in the future, we expect unchanged investment dynamics and, in fact, even more than this year. The next year will also be accompanied by a lively intensity in the housing investment segment as well as the transfer of investments. Investment will also be affected by the increase in investment expenditure and state budget transfers, together nominally by 20.2%, and the acceleration of exports while improving the economic environment in our most important trading partners. For a vibrant investment activity, this is a benefit for the expected higher rate of economic growth. Just let me have one more sentence. It also shows an overview of the projects that we have received on the public invitation to draw on investment funds, and in these cases these figures are extremely encouraging, given the time, they would not be cited because they show that they are somehow revitalising the cycle or accelerating the investment cycle, whose recovery was already in 2002.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u161	Thank you. My friend Barovic, you have one more word for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u162	Thank you. Madam Minister, I don't know if you understand me or if I wasn't clear enough. I was talking about lowering investment incentives. But you can think of them as tax reliefs, which belongs to the department, probably according to your assessment, within the Ministry of Finance. We could talk about this. However, I ask you again for an answer: Are there data available for which state grants have been distributed, what is the fate of the companies that have received these grants, how many are there, such as Seldapak once again, those that have failed, and what is the fate of these grants, which the State has given hugely, and those companies have failed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u163	Thank you. Can we get this part of the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u164	Thank you very much. As far as these investment-related tax incentives are concerned, this debate has not yet been finalised. I think it would be good to wait for the final proposal of this law, so that I would not give an answer at the moment. I can only say that our ministry has also made several proposals regarding these tax reliefs, which are and are also related to what you quoted, given that we actually have high-quality jobs or that our staff are the most burdensome. We have made certain proposals in this regard in the context of the process of adopting this tax. We expect at least part of these proposals to be adopted. It is also for the transfer of this knowledge from research and to enterprise, as well as for the reduction of taxes to development research activities based on the so-called [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] definitions that have also been established in the European Union. [[...]] We have also made a number of proposals on capital profit issues in the case of reinvestment in economic activity and the like. We have here, and we can also convey to you what reliefs we have given. Of course, from the point of view of these public finances, it is now necessary to see which of these proposals can be taken into account and which will have the greatest impact. As regards the analysis of these subsidies, the State Aid Commission is also available on the one hand, while what we give in the form of subsidies in our ministry is public and published on the Internet. You can see for each company that has received and what the results are. Our assessment from 2000 onwards in the field of these horizontal measures has generated a total of 4,000 new jobs and also multiplied the money that was intended to raise the technological, human and organisational capacities of our companies, and I will tell you immediately, 15 billion then generated 340 billion projects by companies to raise the technological, human and organizational renewals of businesses.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Comrade Dorijan Marsič is next to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I was particularly encouraged by the information presented at one of the agricultural conference problems that showed that agriculture is the worst developed in the coastal and karst areas. At least budgetary resources in the form of State aid and incentives also come into this area. We already had an agricultural institution in Slovenia in the 1960s. Slovenia's Istria is from the point of view of the diversity of cultures, by adding vines, olives, sea fishing, vegetables, fruiting, specific and very diverse. It is true that we do not have many clean farmers, but the number of citizens and citizens working on agriculture and processing agricultural areas is very large. They do this as an activity from regular work, create market surpluses, are organised and keep agricultural land from growing. Dear Minister! By law we have established an agri-economic chamber of Slovenia, which has 13 regional units, which is also understood as the possibility of establishing 13 agri-economic institutions. The area now covered by the agricultural-land office in Novi Gorica ranges from Piran to Triglav. Such organisation of the institution does not allow for the transparency and representation of all activities within the institution to the same extent. The Slovenian Agricultural and Economic Chamber already has 13 regional units in its statute, which means 13 institutions. For the coastal and karst area, where there are almost 12,000 members of the agri-land chamber of Slovenia, the diversity and diversity of climate conditions are characteristic, and the support of local farming communities is important. In order to meet the needs of agriculture, to improve the transparency of work and the linkage of the agricultural advisor-country-European Union, and in particular to improve the situation of agriculture in the coastal and karst areas, we should set up an agri-economic institution in this area, which would include an agricultural advisory service, I am thinking mainly of the workers from Kopra, Sežana and Ilirska Bistrica, and the Centre for Forestry Koper. This would make it easier for the Institute to negotiate and connect with the University of Primorska and the emerging Institute for Mediterranean Agriculture. Also because the current organisation is causing a number of problems mainly to farmers of specific agricultural crops, olive groves, vineyards, fisheries and so on. Minister Booth, I ask you: What is the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, Economy and Food on this initiative?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u167	Thank you, Comrade Dorian Marshich. Minister Franci Booth, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u168	Thank you so much for asking. We know this very well because we have already been informed about it by some coastal local communities. We are aware that there is the biggest issue of agriculture in the sense that at least the inner part of Istria means in agricultural production in Slovenia perhaps at least. We are aware that there is a need for a specific approach and for more funding through specific programmes. I estimate that next year, co-financing by the European Union and the enlargement of the programmes of the Republic of Slovenia's environmental programme, as part of the 2004 rural development programme, 2005 and 2006, will offer some new financial incentives and opportunities for this area. On the other hand, I must say that the organisation of the agri-agricultural chamber is defined in the law on the agri-agricultural chamber. The Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber shall be a legal person of public law who may be established or incorporated by legal persons. The responsibilities of our Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the field of the organisation and operation of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber are, in particular, limited to the supervision of the functioning of the Agricultural and Forestry Chamber. While we are assessing that perhaps it would be best to sit together with the representatives of the Chamber and you as the initiator of this proposal, perhaps the representatives of our ministry and to agree together whether, in the near future, a law can be drawn up or agreed within the framework of organisation. However, I stress that this is largely dependent on the agricultural chamber. At the Ministry, we think it is true that the issue of organisation is not a question or a reason for the situation of agriculture in this area or region of Slovenia, because today it is not so much and most important where the seat is, if we are honest, that there are adequate means of communication and tools available, but that for a great deal of reason it is necessary to look elsewhere. Taking into account the arguments you have made, we allow for the possibility that an agri-agricultural chamber in this area may also be organised differently, particularly in the field of institutions. However, as we say, this is not directly within the competence of our ministry. But if such an agreement were possible, it would be supported by the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u169	Thank you, Minister. colleague Majda Zupan also has a question for the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Last Sunday we were able to monitor a TV interview with the Slovenian market, seafarer and explorers of the maritime and fishing tradition. Mr Bruno Volpi Lisjak has given us interesting information and has given us a historical memory of our people, the sea and our coast. For more than a thousand years, Slovenians lived on the coastline from Trieste to the origin of Timava in Slovenian villages and as fishermen continued until the 1960s. They had a strong fishing fleet of more than 400 vessels. In 1954, the Italians planned to settle you among each Slovenian of the optantes and with favourable interest-free loans enabled them to establish a more modern fishing fleet and build refrigerators. Unfortunately, today we can see that fishermen along our coast are getting smaller and our fisheries are getting worse. There were even rumors in Isola that Fisha would sell the last pair of fish1 and Fish2 next year after it sold a couple of ships. Although the Slovenian State had already concluded in 1992 that it would also help fisheries to preserve the character of the Mediterranean, maritime and fisheries countries. However, the actual aid has always been too low, and therefore the government's and the ruling coalition's negative attitude towards the amendments tabled by the Members at the time of the adoption of the 2004 and 2005 budget. Their aim was to increase the resources for measures in marine fisheries that would enable the financing of projects to restore both ships, to modernise fishing equipment and refrigeration facilities. Such policy behaviour is incomprehensible, for delaying for us can have a long-term negative strategic impact. Croatia has already outrun us with the ecological fishing zone. And the historical experience of an experienced sea expert shows that efforts for the Gulf of Piran and access to international waters without Slovenian fishermen with a modern equipped fleet will have no real weight and that we may not be able to understand the whole dimension of this problem sufficiently early. Dear Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food: How will the state help fisheries and when and how will the national State aid programme also finance the restoration of the fishing fleet? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u171	Thank you for asking. Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u172	Thank you very much for an interesting question. First, I would say that at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, of course, we are also responsible for fisheries. We have been doing a lot of work lately, although it is true that there are only 200 registered fishermen in Slovenia, some of whom are good 50 who are constantly surviving from this title alone. I'm talking about sea fishing. We have also adopted a law that is Europeanly comparable. As far as the problem is concerned, it must first be said that the fishing fleet or, in other words, the fisheries industry, the processing industry in Slovenia in the 1980s, was largely dimensional in the scale of the former country. Since there were no limits, it is clear that in the coastal seas Slovenian fishermen had completely different opportunities for catches than they have today. Therefore, following the independence of the Republic of Slovenia in the case of Slovenia, this fishing fell to about a bad third of what was once the majority of fishermen were fishing in the former Yugoslav territorial waters. This means in the vast majority of the existing territorial waters of the Republic of Croatia. We know that the Slovenian territorial belt is extremely small and is also extremely limited and not very promising for serious fishing. This means that here is the basic reason to consider. In doing so, I would like to point out that in the Mediterranean, in the 20th year, fish catches are more than halved due to the decline in fish funds. As for Croatia and its announcement, I would mention that it did not outrun us, but unilaterally declared the ecological and fishing zone. We all know whether we admit it or not that Slovenia here has difficulties in doing something similar, due to the unresolved issue of the maritime border with the Republic of Croatia and that, of course, this is the main obstacle, why Slovenia has not done something similar. However, it is a problem that has been mentioned, which we claim, because we have been interested in, it is not true, that Fish Company in Isola is supposed to sell two ships. This would be extremely bad for the Republic of Slovenia, since the Republic of Slovenia has practically only three suitable fishing vessels, which can at least theoretically compete for acquisition or theoretically, so to speak, hunt in international open waters and deep waters. This means that those ships with which Slovenia can compete with, for example, 20 000 with Ireland will compete with Spain for quotas if quotas are distributed in the Mediterranean. We know that the conference in Venice, weeks ago, was the start of preparations for the development of a common fisheries policy, which also meant once, a year, two or more quotas. Since we are extremely aware of this in Slovenia, two structural measures have also been prepared in agreement with the European Union as part of a single programming document, which have been confirmed: a measure for the development of aquaculture and a measure for existing national fishing fleets, in accordance with European rules. We are in a position to co-finance reconstruction from next year. As far as enlargement is concerned, there is a specific system, as the European acquis limits heat, but there is also this possibility of extending the appropriate fishing fleet. This is thus envisaged to be financed from a single programming document in cooperation with the national budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This question of yours, which you have raised, is extremely important. It has a great weight, perhaps for the national economy is a completely small, one-thousand percent, of significance in terms of economic power. However, it is extremely politically important for the country of Slovenia as a maritime country, because that is the only thing that will define it as a maritime state, and this is the only way that we will maintain this status. We will do our best here, but we may be able to sit down and show you these documents, as it is written in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u173	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do you still want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I thank you for your answer. If you allow another question to which I have the right: When and how will the relevant services act on the Croatian shell farm in the Puerto Rican fishing reserve? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u175	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u176	Thank you very much. As far as this problem or open question is concerned, I can say that we are in touch and in contact with the Ministry, which is in our power. I continue to stress that a large part of the problems in a particular part of the work is also this, and certainly not entirely, linked to the unresolved issue of maritime boundary between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. However, we can give an additional written part of the answer to this question, given the possible new developments in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u177	Thank you very much. France Tsukati has a question for the Minister of Finance. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. I apologize to the Minister of Finance for keeping him here for so long in the National Assembly, but unfortunately I have come to terms with this issue so late. As I announced, I would like to explain something about the sale or replacement of Trnovo Hospital. In view of the need to move Trnovo hospital to a clinical centre, the government, at the beginning of this mandate, stated in its sales plan that the funds from sale would be allocated to move the department to a clinical centre, etc. Trnovo Hospital, with a land of 10,000 square metres, was estimated at 552 million in 1997. If we recalculate this on the day of the switch, this was last November, it was estimated at 685 million. In October 2001, it was judged to be 827 million. At the time, it was 7 million 400 thousand marks. In November 2002, it was sold to the Municipality of Ljubljana or replaced by 564 million. The question arises why the Trnovo hospital was sold or replaced according to valuation, as ordered by the buyer, namely the Ljubljana Municipality, and not according to the value established a year before, which means the difference of 263 million to the detriment of state property. The replacement of the hospital was not carried out or it can be established that the replacement or sale of the Trnovo hospital was not carried out on the basis of the method of public offering, public bidding or public auction. We're wondering why. Why was it handed over to the public in a way that was hidden from the public, without adequate prior decisions, both by the Municipality of Ljubljana and by the Ministry of Health? We believe that this violated a regulation well known and in force at the time, namely a regulation on the sale of real property of the State, because it is only possible in such a form to replace it if the supplier is only one and the value of the replacement is not reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr. Minister of Finance, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u180	Thank you so much for your compassion, Dr. Tuckyat. But I do have one more question later. With regard to this issue of Trnovo Hospital, I would like to point out that the Public Finance Act, which is an 80.b Article, allows for the sale to be made with the conclusion of a direct contract if the property is replaced, if the value of the property is not reduced by the replacement, as you have already quoted. Article 52(2) of this Regulation also provides for the same. That's what you're saying. We've got a legally viable replacement if the value doesn't go down. The key thing is, of course, I think that this legislation can also be understood by the fact that the difference in the value of real estate is also paid in money, that it is of equal value. Whether this condition has actually been fulfilled or not, the Minister of Health may answer you. As far as I know, he's already prepared this answer because he's in charge. The budget inspection, which started on November 14th and will soon conclude its work with the report, will find this. Once the budgetary inspection has completed this, it will also be clear from our side, on the budgetary side, whether everything has been done in accordance with the law from the budgetary point of view. As far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, it is possible to say this only because a representative of the Ministry of Finance was also involved in this committee when the evaluation contract was submitted to the expert committee, and he found that there were some errors in appreciation, which is why he objected to the evaluation at the meeting of the expert committee because, in his view, it was slightly undervalued. This was also followed by a commission which did not accept this appreciation. At the same time, the meeting of the expert commission in the presence of the representative of the Ministry of Health also explained the shortcomings in evaluation. In the direction of these comments, the valuer then re-examined his valuation and corrected it and increased the estimated value, which was later accepted by the Commission. So much for once by the Ministry of Finance. When the budget inspection is done, we will see if the conditions of the law have been followed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u181	Thank you, Minister. Hey, buddy. Do you still want some candy?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u182	I'm glad the inspection has its own purpose in this area. However, I would like to ask the following further questions: The second valuation, which was made at the request of a representative or commission, was only higher for a few fighting percentages. However, the property was still then estimated at 260 million less than it had been a year before. When specifying a law under which a direct transfer is possible, it should be taken into account that all conditions must be met cumulatively, not just one or the other. It is also a condition that only one buyer, or an interested one, and that the value does not decrease. I hope the inspection will find that the value has decreased in this way. It could be bigger if an offer was made to the public. On the other hand, which was only one bidder, it is not possible to establish whether an offer or auction has been made. Mr. Minister, as the guardian of state property, I want you to get to the bottom of this thing and act if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u183	Thank you. Dr. Joseph Bernick has a question for the Minister of Culture. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, Madam Ministers! While I have addressed my question to the Minister for Home Affairs, I am happy to have an answer from the Minister. This is about the Slovenian language and the relocation of the office, the degradation of the Slovenian language office from the current office of the Prime Minister [[...]] [[It's a group.]] to some other department. [[...]] This office was established during the government of Dr. Bajuk, which is a matter of recognition. Later, the coalition, as I saw in this coalition contract, laid down a whole series of laws that they did not want to support or withdraw or anything. Of course, there is no mention of Slovenian language anywhere, although the proposal of the Slovenian Language Act has been mentioned, but it is wise to refrain from commenting on what they will do with it. We know what happened because he's not here today, and he probably won't be for long. However, in every way, some think that this is a degradation of the Slovenian language, that nothing will happen. Is it just to get him into a dead end? Nevertheless, I ask you, Madam Minister, because I hear that this office will land at your ministry: what will be the task of this office and how will they structure it? In a letter, the Minister of the Interior said that it was appropriate to place the tasks in the field of enforcement and development and promotion of the Slovenian language in the Ministry of the Interior. What's that supposed to mean? If it is truly possible to do so, why has it not been done? Maybe it's a trick, too. I wonder what you see in this transfer of the office, how you will manage it, and what is your objective in this management of this office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u185	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Member Bernik, for the question, although it would probably be better to address the issue at this point to the government or to the Minister of the Interior. But I'm still going to try to answer it in my power. The Slovenian language office is not terminated. The Slovenian language office is finally given a loud voice in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And taking care of the Slovenian language is the task of all the departments, all the areas in the government, probably mostly the most national assembly. My example is a small country with 500,000 inhabitants in Europe who care deeply about their language. It also revives this language annually with a number of words born in Parliament in the National Assembly. This is why it is also the task of the Ministry of Culture, together with the Slovenian Language Office, as a body in the Ministry's composition in the future, if it so decides, to prepare and further develop a strategy for the development and dissemination of the Slovenian language. This will be achieved by strengthening the area of culture, especially science and education. The Slovenian language office was established in 2000. In 2001, the government appointed a director. The same year, the month after that she appointed or extended the office with two jobs, this is the secretary, and lastly also with the lawyer who came from the Ministry of Culture as Head of Legal Service at the Ministry of Culture and thus very well continues and works and connects the Office for Slovenian Language. We've already had a conversation, but only a conversation. When the action is also done, I have no doubt that we will not upgrade the national programme for culture adopted by the government, which is the first strategic objective, care and development of the Slovenian language. The first measure also includes the adoption of the Slovenian Language Act. I have information on my own, and I am well aware of what is happening in all areas. With us is also Member Majda Potrata, who is the first to be signed in the group tasked by the Council of State for the drafting of the law. The Member himself can also confirm that the law will come into play as early as the month of January next year. Once again, I assure you that if an action is to take place, as the Government has decided, and as the National Assembly will decide, I do not doubt that the Slovenian language office with three people will get really many participants at the Ministry of Culture in the implementation of the strategy for the development of the national programme, but especially the main mission, this is to strengthen and revive the role of Slovenian language in all sectors and to strengthen education and science, which I think is the greatest contribution to the Slovenian language to live and develop further.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Minister of Culture. Mr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Just this. Nice words, I hope you can do them. Another time. I didn't choose you to wait here, so I apologize, but someone in the government, because my questions are from another minister's address, as you know. Third time. I'd like to say this. Surely you know that many celebrities, writers, and, I would say, academics are against it because they too think that something will happen to this language or to this office. Although the president of the Academy of Science and Art did not call me that, he was in a letter against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Ivan Mamić has a question for the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u190	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, both Ministers, all three Members and all three Members. I don't want to be asking any questions to people who aren't here. So I'm going to repeat it next time, that's the second year, or if the minister comes back, today. Let me ask him if it's possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u191	Now you have the floor, the minister will receive a magnetogram.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u192	A living word, if we can, if we can't, we'll bring it for next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u193	But I'll do it next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u194	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u195	Thank you. Maria Pozsonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u196	Thank you very much. And once again a nice greeting to all present! Minister of Transport, Mr. Jakob Preseknik, I ask: How will you solve the traffic situation in small suburban villages until the highway is built? It happened to Gornji Lakoš. For the patience of those living there is limited. The entire province was wrong when someone diverted the construction of the highway from the east-west, slowing down the construction of the highway for many years or even decades. Because of the incident, the people there are being fined cash, although I believe that this should be a fine, and we should pay others a lot more. I therefore ask the Minister of Transport: Have the powers in this case been exceeded? I'm asking the minister to tell the public when the highway section will be built? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u197	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u198	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you so much for the question. I'll try to be brief and clear. I must say that, as we are all aware, the national programme or resolution on the national programme for the construction of the motorway network in the Republic of Slovenia is currently under parliamentary consideration. It also shows the dynamics and price of individual sections. Following this national programme, it is envisaged that the Premur section will be completed by 2010 at the latest under other options that will arise with the simultaneous reorganisation of Dars and the possibility of a different way of financing individual motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, and perhaps a few years earlier. I repeat, therefore, this section is also envisaged under this national completion programme by 2010. But because you said that it happened to Lower Lakoš; otherwise it did not happen, because Lower Lakoš and Gornji Lakoš and all those places before Lendava in Prekmur are of course long. It is true, however, that the problems are mainly due to freight traffic. In the next two years, we also have the funds to reconstruct individual sections, to improve driving surfaces, which are not anyone who knows how bad, given that there has been quite a bit of money invested in these sections over the past years. But in the 2004 and 2005 budgets, we have the funds to implement some of the measures in this area. At the same time, in view of the complaints made by the peoples of these villages, we have also tabled a proposal to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which is responsible for amending the regulation prohibiting or prohibiting heavy goods vehicles at weekends at certain times and days at the end of the week, in order to allow these people to have an equal life by means of the proposed amendment. This is especially due to the fact that in Hungary they also have about the same timetable as in Slovenia. I hope that these measures will ease the difficulties of this time and at the same time prepare for the construction of highway sections, at least as planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u199	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll go back to the last question. Mr Finance Minister will be asked a question by colleague Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u200	Now all I'm going to do is say hello to Mr. Minister. I know you're tired, and I understand that, but I don't mind. My question is about roads. The country receives from taxes and excise duties on liquid fuels more than 90% of the funds it spends on road construction and rehabilitation in a given year. These are the means of purpose, previously called the gas tolar, now called not so much, but the funds come in the same way, so 20% more expensive gasoline than its real price. But it's actually less than 40% of this dedicated revenue, and that's my free assessment, a proxy, for that purpose. In order to cover the resulting difference, the State is in charge abroad. According to the new national programme for the construction of the highway programme, only 30% of its own resources will be available and all the rest will be credits. I also calculated this from the data I received from the rapporteur. I ask: How many taxes on petrol and diesel fuel, VAT, excise duties and so on were collected in 2002 in the state budget? How much money did the country spend on road construction and maintenance in 2002 and how many motorway construction projects did it rent? Why do road infrastructure construction and maintenance not first use the earmarked resources from the taxed fuels? Does the State use this money to pay red tape and other purposes, perhaps to block a budget hole that is bigger each year, or to close mines for which it would be difficult to obtain foreign loans, and then, at the expense of construction, the highway is indebted abroad? Is this not about misleading borrowers, especially citizens and artificial "painting", pardon the expression, stories of success? Why am I asking about 2002? Because 2002 ended, I think the bill is done, 100%, that there are no problems. Because you are not responsible for everything that has happened before, and for 2002, I think you will give me an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u201	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister of Finance for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u202	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. And I apologize for coming into the hall too late, both of you, and Ambassador Mamić. With regard to excise duties and the use of excise duty for the construction of motorways, I would like to say the following. In 1996, the national programme for the construction of motorways laid the basis for the construction and financing of this programme. Both the resources and the extent of the resources needed have been specified in the law on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of state roads, those set out in the national programme. That was the so-called gas tolar bill you mentioned. This stated that the means for the construction of motorways are deliberately provided in the State budget from the taxes paid on the traffic of motor vehicles and diesel fuels, at 20% of the retail prices of those derivatives, as mentioned above. With the new tax regime introduced by the value added tax law in 1998, followed by additions in 2001, and the excise duty law adopted in 1998, 1999, the additions in 2001 ceased to apply this transport tax law, thus also the sub-legal acts governing the turnover of motor gasoline and diesel fuels. The system of accounting and payment of taxes on products and services has also been changed, thus losing its dedicated source of gas tolar. In the following years, financing for the construction of motorways was carried out on the basis of the provisions of the law on the implementation of the budget, by which the National Assembly was currently setting out the level of funding from the State budget revenue in fixed annual amounts and in the framework of budgetary financing options, irrespective of the absence of legally determined revenue from transport taxes. So there was no more petrol tolar, each year it was determined, as far as possible, within the budget. In March 2002, the Act amending the Law on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of state roads, as set out in the national programme for the construction of motorways, entered into force. This provides, however, that the earmarked means for the construction of motorways are provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, with a nominal amount of at least 37 billion tolar for 2003, and at least a realistic equivalent amount in the coming years. It follows from this that this question of how much money has been paid, excise duty on derivatives, petrol derivatives, this is called petrol and diesel fuels, is no longer relevant to the volume of funds allocated from the budget by the State Motorway Construction Assembly. As I said, financing for construction, maintenance of roads from dedicated sources by law is not envisaged. It shall be financed on the basis of the work programme of the Integrated Budget with the annual financial plans now adopted by the National Assembly each year. In fact, this gas tolar is no longer relevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u203	Thank you very much for your answer. My friend Mamić, you still want [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u204	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u205	ask for clarification? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u206	I'm not entirely satisfied with the answer because I'm mainly interested in how much was collected from that address last year? Given that the national programme has been adopted for so many years, up to 33 years, it is envisaged that only a third or 30% of the investments will be covered from the petrol toll, i.e. from the industry. I want to know where the rest of the money is going. How's that supposed to happen? That's what I'm interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u207	Minister, can we get an answer to this part?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u208	Yeah, I'd love to. Taxes on mineral oils and gas were 122.8 billion tolars in 2002 and are the source of this integrated budget. Thus, they come into the integral budget as income, as a value added tax, which is then divided by the national assembly within the budget debate. In 2002 it was the construction of highways 33.5 billion from the budget, that is to say about one quarter of what is obtained from excise duties on mineral oil and gas. But we don't connect it by law anymore, because we don't have a purpose source anymore. 27.5 billion tolars or 43% were loans in 2002, while 2.9 billion were from tolls and others. This is now one such structure that will be more or less applicable in the future, perhaps even a little less in the structure of the budget, but that is why a long-term debt plan has been developed and then the possibilities of repayment, which is flattened in 30 years. In this way, debt will have to be refinanced in certain years, but in the 1930s this debt will also have to be repaid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u209	Mr. Minister of Finance, thank you very much. That was the last question addressed to you. The following question is raised by colleague Alojz Sok to the Minister for Education, Science and Sport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u210	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice-President, distinguished ministers, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! I have a very short question for Dr. Gabra, Minister of Education. I'd ask him like this. It is known that our Slovenian government is quite an academic government. If the exact data I have been tracking in the media is at the same time 6 or 7 ministers are professors and have certain obligations under this heading, which is nothing wrong. I wonder: How is it that ministers are so often successful on the call for scientific research projects? For example, in 2002, Dr. Rado Bohinc was involved in research work in the field of social sciences. Tea Petrin also research work, social sciences, 15 million and six, 92 thousand. In 2001 - Dr. Rado Bohinc 9 million, Dr. Anton Grizold 2 times, once 17 million and once nine and a half times, Dr. Tea Petrin 15 million and something. I would like to refer to these data, which I have just mentioned, in two questions, for the first time: Is the standard in the Member States of the European Union for ministers and the success of the call for scientific research projects the same as in the Republic of Slovenia? And the second question is: Is it not also the possibility of ministers to influence these calls and, of course, the acquisition of these funds in connection with or against others, which, of course, have no effect on the difference between ministers? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u211	Thank you. Dr. Slavko Gaber, Minister for Education, Science and Sports, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u212	Thank you. Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! If I start with that part of the question that speaks of comparing Slovenia with the European Union, let me say that, after what is known to it, when it comes to situations like these, which you have just talked about, people who at some point become ministers, before that run on calls and on such calls, if they are scientists or scientists, succeed in doing so in Europe. The projects you're talking about are according to the data we have at our ministry, the projects that began to be funded before 2000, that is, before the year in which these people joined the government. That is why two more must be said. These funds, according to our data you spoke of, were not paid to these ministers, but to the groups - as usual - who were headed by those as notifiers back then in 1998 or 1999. How did these decisions come about? It's the same way as it is today. The expert system of the Ministry of Science is the one that decides which of the projects will be selected. It is at the head of this expert body to say about the current period, which is also more tantamount to me, the academic Boštjan Žekš, who, as we all know, is also the president of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, and beneath him are six regional presidents and a very diversified system that chooses from the reviews those projects that are then receiving funding. This funding usually goes by name to groups. Groups, however, are part of either institutes or universities. So, in fact, it wasn't even about the funds that would go to the ministers. All these ministers you listed are entered into our bases with zero hours. This means that they are led there as researchers, but not as those eligible for funding. Another time. The funds didn't go to private institutes or private companies because you're asking the question, but they went to public institutes or universities. There's so much I can tell you about this moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u213	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There is also a question for the Minister of Justice, who will be asked by his colleague, Dr Jožef Bernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u214	Thank you very much, again. Mr President, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. My question is to the Minister of Justice. Here I will immediately comment that it is infantile for Members to go through such a filter to get some answers from the Attorney General. Well, she answered me in half in writing about civilians and non-civilists, killed members of the Slovenian National Army. But I would say she quoted some lawyers, but I don't agree with that because I know other opinions that are quite different. Besides, I asked her to give me a legal opinion and she never gave it to me. I ask: Who obstructs criminal proceedings against persons who were direct perpetrators of mass killings in war, revolution, and against those who gave orders for these war crimes? Could their actions be obsolete because they themselves did not meet the minimum conditions for their recognition of military personnel under the Geneva Conventions? Let me tell you right now. No one is interested in being persecuted or anything, since they are already experiencing greater glory or whatever, but it is important to know that this is part of history. And I'm gonna ask you about the procedure against Zdenk Zavadava. Has this investigative procedure against this gentleman begun, which has been highlighted by [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Massacres that, as a person present, the association of these war crimes or genocides would not make public the names of the persons responsible for issuing the orders or killing these victims and asking for a very correct answer. [[...]] Because it seems to me, after all, we've been talking about this thing for so long, and we don't get any real answer from this lady. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u215	Thank you. Mr. Minister Ivo Bizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u216	Dear Dr. Bernick. I am aware that it is not pleasant to communicate indirectly, but because the Prosecutor's Office is not an integral part of the Ministry of Justice and because of the rules governing the functioning of the National Assembly and the Government and also the Prosecutor's Office, in the end this is the only way that is currently possible. However, by reminding you that the National Assembly is also considering the annual report on the work of the Prosecutor's Office, I expect this to happen in the first months of the following year, and I would like to remind you that at that time you will also have an opportunity to raise a specific question or to clear up some of the issues that have already been raised directly in the debate with the Attorney-General. Since the question goes one way and the answer goes the other, then it is not possible because there is no direct discussion of what details to clear up until the end. It is not clear from the reports I also receive regarding your questions from the State Prosecutor's Office that anyone would obstruct an investigation against both those who directly carried out mass killings and those who gave orders for such events. But it is true, as I have said before, that, of course, there is a difference in the investigation and prosecution of perpetrators of crimes for cases more than 50 years ago, from the investigation of those crimes and the prosecution of those who have occurred, say, a day, two, a week or so ago. There are a number of problems here. We have already warned some of them in our replies, cited by the Attorney General. Some of these problems cannot be said to be of such a nature that they do not interfere with the investigation, actually hinder it, in fact constitute an additional problem in the course of such far-reaching acts. Thus, the answer, on my part, is that it is not possible for anyone to interfere with these criminal procedures but that I do not know anything about it, which is certainly why it is impossible to say why anyone should interfere. Finally, you are also asking a concrete question about the concrete procedure. On this point, I will need to obtain information from the State Prosecutor's Office in order to provide you with an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u217	Thank you, Minister. You still want a word with Comrade Bernick?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u218	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Although you didn't say anything useful. I hope you will be right to have the state prosecutor's report in the National Assembly, but not just on the Internal Policy Committee. There, most Members can block it and we can't get it here. Thus, it is protected as a bear in the wooded forests. But as for this in 50 years and so on, what you're talking about, a man would say this. One civilized country would ask for a single murder which legal expert does not look through legal goggles or politically colored legal goggles to clarify this. This is about 10,000 people. We're acting like 10,000 dogs were buried there. And that's all I'm recommending is that it might be good to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u219	Thank you. Minister, you still want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u220	I'd still say a few more words. If you stayed with what was said, it would appear as if nothing really worked on these things. From the answers we have provided so far, it is quite clear what has been done. That certain investigative actions had been carried out, that so many and so many hearings had been carried out. We could go on individual matters that are more or less well known, and for each of them certain procedures have been initiated. At some point, the problem was that, at least at a certain stage, it was not possible to determine who was buried in certain mass graves. It was not possible, at least in the beginning, to find out who, more broadly speaking, the perpetrator of such acts was. From then on, there were many more specific issues on which additional information was to be collected, tasks issued or requests for individual investigations and some other tasks performed. Including digging up skeletons, setting up forensic experts and so on. In view of the increased number of cases, it might be appropriate to look once again at the whole statistics, how much of this has been done in which direction and in relation to these discovered graves, so that it would not be so relatively short, within a limited time frame, spoken, in general. This can then lead to wrong conclusions, even the impression that something is going on. This additional response of mine was mainly aimed at the fact that there are certain activities down here. In fact, however, it will probably be necessary to look at what remains below the line, what are the final results. To this end, I will endeavour to come again, although we have already requested this from the State Prosecutor's Office, to an updated response on the current state of affairs in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-15-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u221	Thank you very much to the Prime Minister, ministers and ministers for their cooperation and for the answers given. We will decide on the requirements or proposals for the replies to be discussed at the next meeting tomorrow in the framework of the votes, and I therefore interrupt this point. We will continue with the vote. I am also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you all for your cooperation and good night.
