ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u1	Colleagues and colleagues, it's 10:00 a.m., when an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly begins. I ask colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the government to come to the hall and occupy their seats, we will begin our 30th extraordinary meeting. I'll wait a minute. The groups of Members shall hold the final talks prior to the opening of the meeting. Nevertheless, I ask the leaders to take care of attending the meeting. We'll set the agenda first and then start with the points we're going to place on it. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, representatives of the government, both ministers, I once again give everyone a good day and I want a successful job! I am opening the 30th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I will first inform you which colleagues and colleagues are unable to attend today's meeting due to other obligations. These are colleagues of Battelli, Bozič, Cimperman, Čeligoj, colleague of Črnugelj, Gasparini, Janc, Jerovšek, Kopušar, Lenko, after 17.30 hours she can not participate in the meeting of her colleague Školč, there will be also a colleague of Cveta Zalokar Orazem. You received the draft agenda by invitation; it is prepared in accordance with paragraph 2 of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure; you received it by reference. I have not received any proposals for withdrawal or extension of the agenda, so that the National Assembly may proceed to the decision on the agenda. I ask colleagues and colleagues to take their seats so that they can decide on the agenda. May I have your attention in the hall, please? I will put to the vote a draft agenda prepared in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 58 [[No proposals for withdrawal or extension]] . Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u2	I have a procedural question. On the radio, I have heard that you have a purpose if there is no initiative at today's meeting to re-examine the proposal for a trade-time referendum in order to call for a deadline to collect signatures. We think we should have time, because it's only an hour, an hour and a half ago that we got it, so at eight, half nine in the morning, this proposal of yours. Apparently, we should have come around yesterday afternoon, so we couldn't make up our minds. Whether you will extend the time limit for parliamentary groups to decide on what they will propose to you or for this meeting to be extended by this point, it is up to you to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u3	In the letter I sent you yesterday, as soon as the opinion of the Legal Service was drawn up, I wrote that in the event that any of the members of the Group would propose an extension of the agenda, a decision to set a time limit or a proposal for a re-examination of the Constitutional Court, the National Assembly would process it. If there was no such proposal, I wrote in my letter that today I would set a deadline for collecting the signatures of the electorate and the electorate in support of the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law amending the law on trade. I sent you the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service as soon as I received it. I understand your comment, colleague Anderlich, that relatively little time was available to study this. We have two options to postpone the start now, to do so, or to start this meeting and, if necessary, to assess the Group of Members, to reconvene tomorrow an extraordinary meeting and decide on this issue if the position between the Group of Members is to prevail in order for this to be necessary. But if you don't, I'll set a deadline. I think that makes sense. My proposal is to start the session today. In line with your proposal, I would then wait until tomorrow for a decision to set the deadline, if one of the groups of Members considered that, for its reasons, the National Assembly was to process the decision, then I would convene an extraordinary meeting and the National Assembly would also decide on this issue tomorrow. Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u4	I think it's possible to do something different to extend this session if you're in such a hurry. However, I think you still have time to sign off on this deadline, not just this afternoon or tomorrow. If you really insist that you do this immediately, I suggest that we extend this meeting to this point and that we consult during the meeting and see whether this is necessary or not, so that this does not mean a new reference immediately tomorrow, or possibly after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u5	I suggest we go the other way. Let me get this straight with the next one. The proposal for a decision should be prepared for enlargement. Such a proposal for a decision should be drawn up. Of course, we can also prepare it during the meeting, but I think it would be business-right to do so maybe tomorrow if we decided to do so. If the Council of State considers that, notwithstanding my view of business today on enlargement, we can do so and the proposal for a decision can be drawn up, taking into account my comment that it is necessary to prepare it for decision during this meeting. The Head of the parliamentary group and the representative may make a statement on this proposal, with a view to extending the agenda today. Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for the floor. On behalf of our Group of Members, I would like to say that we are not familiar with this material and that in the concept of this we are leaning towards the solution that you have proposed. So today, we are starting an extraordinary session, if necessary, an extraordinary meeting is convened on this issue, which is raised by colleague Anderlič's principles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u7	Any of the other members of the group would like a word? Please, buddy Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u8	Mr President, if we can agree that the position of the Secretariat, the Law Service, the material provided as a agenda item, then I think it is possible to decide. It is true, however, that the proposal for a decision must then be drawn up. Our opinion is that if any Member Group or individual Member proposes that the National Assembly decide on this once again, we will agree. We believe that the opinion of the Law Service is such that it recognises certain clarifications, but at the same time points to a number of issues. That's how I read it, and I think as long as there are questions, it's precisely the possibility of a constitutional court to let that happen. However, if the majority opinion is that it is better to call a meeting tomorrow, but today we are here If this could be done, it would seem more useful for us to do so in the course of today. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u9	Is there any other group that would like to clarify the position? Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u10	Thank you very much. If, President, we were to follow your instructions, then we should find that by the beginning of the meeting, no parliamentary group had proposed an extension to this topic. Yesterday you informed us in writing, you sent the material, you found that there are no proposals for enlargement, and now we should vote on the agenda as it is. Everything we do now is contrary to the rules of procedure. I have carefully read the material of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. This material cannot be the basis for the agenda, colleagues and colleagues. It can't be! If we do so, we will break the rules of procedure, or we will implement the practice that we will then serve at the next meeting of the National Assembly and we will propose some material for the agenda. I'm warning you, this road is wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u11	Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u12	Of course on this subject, Mr Podobnik, we can discuss for a long time. I myself believe that there are no conditions for this meeting and that it has been called in contravention of the Rules of Procedure, irrespective of the fact that a request has been made. We have already discussed this at the College and the Law Service has not explained and approved such a meeting in the light of the concerns that have been raised. But obviously it also happens that you could have been at that college where we talked about it and of course there were dilemmas. [[...]] There's no first-point material. No matter what, we have a meeting. If it were not for the letter of the President of the National Assembly that he intended to decide and that he urged the Group of Members to come to the meeting, that is to say, until the adoption of the agenda, we have also communicated this. It wasn't even possible before. I do not insist in this proposal that we decide on this today, but I very clearly say that this meeting is not convened in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because the first point does not meet the conditions for convening an extraordinary meeting because it does not have the appropriate material and the conclusions have been proposed as proposed. But of course, what it is, there's a session here, but it's gonna be a bad precedent for the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u13	Look, if the National Assembly agrees, let me say the following. My colleague Anderlič is right to point out that, after the trade union's representatives had given their amendments to the trade union, the legislature decided yesterday that you were aware of the decision or the position of the legal and legislative service and that there was relatively little time to study. I believe that it would be businessly clear if we today adopt the agenda that has been proposed to take the time today to study the report thoroughly in the members of the groups. If I may speak my mind. I think there's a reason to set a deadline. However, since the National Assembly has so far processed this decision, it was right for me to ask the National Assembly whether it would like to have a word on this last decision. I believe that in this case, we would then convene an extraordinary meeting tomorrow and also decide on this issue, if that is the decision of the parliamentary groups. So today, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to propose for the agenda those two points that you received with the call for reference. I shall put such a proposal to the vote on the agenda. Present 66, 65 for and one for. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against one.]] The National Assembly therefore adopted the agenda for this extraordinary meeting. So on this occasion, let me state here that, in accordance with my letter yesterday, that if the agenda is not extended today, I will not do so, but wait until tomorrow, when I receive the views of the Members' groups, or they believe that it is necessary to convene a meeting to do so. If I don't get this notice by tomorrow morning, I'm going to judge it's my duty to set a time limit for collecting signatures. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - This is for discussion on the liability of public institutions and public function holders in the supervision of the business and sale of the Slovenian Investment Bank with the proposals of the store. A group of Members with a first-signed colleague, Janez Janš, forwarded the material to this point of the agenda for consideration by the National Assembly. Comrade Janša, please inform the National Assembly of the reasons for this. Please, Comrade Janš, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u14	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, government representatives. On behalf of the proposers of this extraordinary meeting, I would like to point out at the outset that this meeting would not have been and probably would not have been an affair about the SIB bank if the state institutions had done their job. We have proposed this meeting because, according to our assessment, these institutions have not done their work, they have not protected any small shareholders, nor taxpayers or those who pay the services of public companies in the Slovenian capital. However, the root causes the situation to be deeper. I'll start by saying they're political. We are obviously, if we are to politicise a matter that has nothing to do with politics, we are answering that what is happening with the SIB is political from the very beginning. If it were not for political reasons, these irregularities and the damage could not have occurred at all. If things were to take place on an economic basis, if the market were to work with us, if those regulators in charge of everyone in this market were to do their job on an equal footing, then this problem would not be present today. The Slovenian Investment Bank was established as a political bank from the outset. Therefore, even if there were no later developments, the policy could not be avoided. The policy led and monitored this bank, and the policy led to illegality and harmful business. Today, too, politics is trying to protect the culprits and put matters under carpets. Those who have proposed this meeting have almost no hope that this affair will unravel anything different than it has so far been in cases where people in power or close to it have been involved in harmful business. As long as the ratios of power are the same as in the last decade, the consequences are likely to be the same. But at least let it be known. We have also proposed this meeting because of this, regardless of whether we are aware of the real relations of forces, that the people who have been injured know how these events have occurred and who has benefited here, and that this may affect that no such thing will happen in the future. That's what we can do. At this stage, we can only say something. The rest must be made by voters, or they must continue to pay high bills higher than would be fair. And something must also be done by those who have a fair master, and such affairs bring bad light to their honest work. At first, for a better understanding of these complications, short chronology. The SIB bank was established by contract on 26 April 1990. This was during the first and second rounds of the first free elections in Slovenia. This was at a time when we had an old executive council that was not supposed to have full powers, yet he still had money. And that was at a time when the similar transactions I was talking about were still a lot. In this Treaty of Establishment, little less than a majority belonged to the Executive Council of the Republic of Slovenia, which, as has already been said, did not have full powers at the time. The other shareholders were 119, including the insurance community Triglav, Petrol, ITEO, Study Centre, the former CK Marxist Centre. Then they were among the founders of the company, some of the other ten socially owned companies, some know what it is, some probably not, natural persons, some ten natural persons, in the first places Vlado Klemenčič, Robert Černe, Janez Kopač, Mitja Povše and others. Many of these were probably involved by accident, with very symbolic stakes, and some of them, of course, knew what the project was like. Since it was a major investment during the first and second rounds of the first modern elections in Slovenia, of course, the Economic Commission for Europe of the time Demos also proposed in a statement made by a member of this committee, Igor Omerza, to the Demos Presidency, the proposal was then adopted and says: "This proposal for a declaration was adopted on 24.4.1990, two days before the establishment of the SIB bank." So, in due time, but this statement had no effect, the bank was set up. In this statement to the Demos Presidency, formulated by Igor Omerza to the Demos Presidency, he says: "We have been getting more and more information recently that he is trying to get the old authorities to secure his staff and material resources in the last days of his administration, regardless of their professional references and their current performance. We cannot verify all the information, but as a very clear example we are referring to the expected monetary support of the Slovenian government for the establishment of the Slovenian investment bank, which is to be run by senior ZKS, SDP, Vlado Klemenčič and Robert Černe, who have been in charge of the economy in the Union of Communists in recent years. The founding assembly of this bank will be held on 26 April 1990." The Slovenian Investment Bank, a shareholder company, 1990, states on page two that it is envisaged that the Republic of Slovenia will provide capital of 20 million to 40 million German Marks in order to secure the bank's most urgent, sustainable assets. As has already been said, this statement, which has otherwise come to the public, has had no effect. The founding meeting was given a few ten million marks from taxpayers' funds to start the bank's business. The Bank has, of course, started to carry out operations in accordance with the purpose of setting up, in accordance with the purpose set out in the Treaty of Establishment and also in accordance with the purpose agreed upon and resulting from the facts and the presence of those who were present. In its business, as at its establishment, the Bank obtained the most capital from the state and public mangers. The money was charged to public and state-owned companies or companies where the country had a majority share, sometimes also to public companies where local communities had a majority share, or whether they were the absolute owner of many government and other agencies, including the Agency for Payments, the Slovenian Export Company, the Fund for the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, the Slovenian Development Company, the insurance company Triglav, the Ljubljana Energy Agency and so on. This list is very long. The Slovenian Investment Bank has also been selected by the State as a bank where the German government has invested several ten million marks to credit the return of our relatives to work in the Federal Republic of Germany. As can be seen from these balance sheets, very large amounts of funds, in many years most of these assets, have been received from these deposits, which were probably not on an economic basis, since the SIB has never been one of the leading banks, has never been one of the most successful banks, has never been one of the banks where the funds are paid to invest and invest, never under any criteria. It is said that this was something other than the economic reasons why state institutions had money there. In short, it was politics, a relationship that had no roots in some economic logic. Well, it should also be said that in addition to these transactions, the bank has also carried out some normal business for customers who came by by chance. These balances show that these were practically the only transactions in addition to these state deposits where the bank reached some funding. All the other businesses that were mainly held as friends and thinkers were economically unsuccessful for the bank, or most of those transactions were such that it was already known that the loans to these persons and people would never or at least not be repaid in full. Mr Arhar, the former Governor of Banka Slovenije, said in a statement after the affair broke out that they had already known that the loans had been credited by men who would not repay those loans. In short, the Slovenian Investment Bank was in this part of the business a money laundering machine and a machine for the legal theft of this money, which mainly accrued from interest on state deposits. In the reports that were later made, this is proven, so I'm not saying anything. The audits that were only carried out in the last stages showed that many credits were unsecured or inadequately secured, that the documentation indicated that the credit was insured or that the credit resolution decisions indicated that the credit was secured, whereas the documentation of these insurance instruments did not contain and had never been issued, after any of these checks had been carried out. On the list of 295 debtors in the last audit report, there are so many companies, many companies for which it was clear at the time the loans were granted that they do not meet the conditions for granting loans on an economic basis and that at least all the money will never be returned. The already superficial assessment of this list shows that it took place in most cases, not entirely, of course, but in most cases to turn money in a narrow circle of acquaintances and political thinkers as well as an attempt to influence public opinion. One of the biggest debtors is, say, the company Delo, the magazine. The problems in this bank, which appeared very early and were all the time hidden, and which were no surprise because the bank did not operate economically, tried to hide from the auditors, or in agreement with the institutions that should oversee the work of this bank, simply sweep under the rug. As early as 1997, the Slovenian Investment Bank was formal, in fact this loss was even higher, but it formally showed a loss of EUR 548 million, which is a large loss for the bank with a relatively low share, about 1% of the bank's share in the Slovenian financial market and the remaining bank power it had. Half a billion tolars of net loss in 1997 for this bank is the first-degree alarm for all regulators who should be contacted. On this balance sheet, the Bank of Slovenia should start with alerting measures and also treatments, but nothing happened. Nothing has happened, there has remained the same leadership, no measures have been taken, nor any public warnings in this respect to alert the potential customers of this bank and also the potential buyers of that bank's shares that nothing is right with this bank. Here Banka Slovenije has for the first time proved to have disregarded her duties under the Bank of Slovenia Act. At least since 1997, both in Banka Slovenije and in all other financial entities, competent and incompetent, knew the situation in this bank, until the sale of the majority share of Ljubljana's Energetics, but they tolerated it. Many of the acts that should have been done have been abandoned, but they were not. In 2001, in the year when Ljubljana's Energy 100% public owned the majority stake of the SIB bank, this is the same company, according to Ljubljana's Energy, revised the balance sheet of this company, that is before purchase, so it allowed this bank with a very transparent and controversial transaction of 400 million profits or profits. As a result of these 400 million, the SIB was able to demonstrate 70 million profits at the end of the business year. This is said to have been an artificial profit that helped to conclude or mislead those who made decisions and were not aware of the background that the bank is a positive entity. In short, without any other company getting this deficit, the same company that then bought this bank got the money that showed that the bank was at least about successful. They didn't even try so hard to complicate things a little bit. Then, in the fall of 2001, there were well - known agreements, many of which were written in the daily newspaper, so I would not repeat it. In short, Mrs Nada Klemenčič, who was President Triglav, her husband, who was the president or director of the SIB bank, the city authority, Mr Pogačar, who was involved in such transactions, and some others who had given obvious political thirst and agreed on what was written down and never denied what the price of the share would be for the public company Energetics to buy a majority stake in the SIB bank. Shares worth perhaps 1,000 tolars were then purchased from SIB for 3,000 to 3,800 Slovenian tolars per share. But that wasn't all that was going on. It has also happened that the public company Energetics paid this share of SIB to the bank before the bank’s management bought them out from its shareholders. So, first, money would go from a public company to buy these shares at the bank's administration, and then, of course, this bank was either at a lower price or individuals who knew about this information were at a lower price buying shares from small shareholders, embezzling them, violating at least five laws, and then selling these shares to a more expensive public company; then they bought them with money that they had already received in advance from this company. It's not hard to make money here if someone's allowed to do it. The prudential legal review of the SIB bank was carried out by the city authorities only after all the shares were purchased and when the transaction was completed, not sooner than normal, but then. First they bought, and then they made a careful legal review, which, of course, showed enormous irregularities. And to make it even more interesting, a careful financial review was made only after the purchase of the bank. First, they bought the shares for twice the price, three times the price, and then they did a financial review on the basis of which they assessed how much the stock was actually worth. Some of these transactions, however, and without redness, then said that they were driven by economic logic. And some people said that yesterday, as we saw. The Energy Supervisory Board, a company that paid 3 billion and a half taxpayers' money to purchase shares that were worth three times less or even more less, discussed the purchase on 15.10.2001. In this supervisory council, with the exception of two members from the municipal municipalities, who are not politically defined, there are people appointed by the government coalition. The decision adopted by the Supervisory Board is for the archives of every legal cartoon, as they adopted the following decision: "The Supervisory Board is aware of the intention to purchase a bank and supports it and agrees that the public energy company can make this purchase within its own free resources..." and so on. "The details of the purchase at this time, in accordance with the provisions of the Company Act," which of course is not true, this is simply given - it is said, "the details of the purchase at this time are not presented to the Supervisory Board due to the value of the sensitive transaction and any unauthorized handling of these data could lead to a change in the value of the shares that are the subject of the purchase." The Supervisory Board, which has to look both at the legality of the business and at the economics of the business, has concluded that it does not wish to be aware of the details of the purchase, explaining that these details could affect the price of the shares. And they're right. Of course, this could affect the price of shares - the price of shares would fall. If this were to be known, the price of shares would have fallen because no one would have bought shares or even those who had been traded in advance would have bought them at such a high price. This is indeed an example, which we probably do not find anywhere in the world - that some supervisory council, which should be inherently over the rule of law and the economics of business, decides not to be aware of the details of the purchase. Only something worse has happened with regard to what I will quote later in a similar sense. It is also true that members of the Governing Council had previously read in the newspaper that this purchase was being prepared before the meeting was convened at all. And when it was convened, the majority voted not to familiarise themselves with these specific terms of purchase. The opposition in the City Council, in particular the Social Democratic Party's Council Group, demanded a discussion in the City Council and a briefing on the circumstances of the purchase, because the transaction was too large to remain a secret in spite of such decisions. There was a meeting of the city council on 21.1.2002, said more than one year ago. Over a year ago, despite all the blockades, they tried to clear up the terms of the purchase, trying to prevent further damage or repair. But something has happened at this meeting, and it is certainly necessary to put in the archives as evidence of what conclusions can be accepted and also to defend them if you have political power and most of the votes sent or of the saints. It was suggested that the city council would be familiar with the circumstances of the purchase of the bank, in short, with the situation in which the city council would have to be informed before the purchase took place because it involved 3.5 billion people's money, who paid for it in order to invest in Ljubljana's Energy and improve the city's heating. That's why they paid him. This money was then used unauthorizedly to buy a bank by paying it three times. When this came on the day and when the opposition in the city council demanded that the city council be informed of the circumstances of the purchase, then Mayor Victoria Potočnik put this decision to the vote. The result of the vote was that 21 city councillors voted against and only 11 in favour. Against the circumstances of the purchase, they voted Anton Kolarič, Borut Veselko, Meta Valentinčič, Slavko Slak, Stanko Bezovar, Angela Murko Ples, Dr. Metka Tekavčič, Peter Bozič, Prof. Stana Pejovnik, Dunja Piškur Kosmac, Miloš Pavlica, Danica Simšič, current municipal county, Danilo Tomšič, our colleague Silva Črnugelj, Dr. Mother Vasilj Cerar, Miha Koprivšek, Evita Leskovšek, Prof. Dr. Darko Štrin, also refused to know, Branka Lovrenčič, Janko Moderndorfer and Roman Veros from the National Party. This did not mean that the city council would take any decisions as to who was to blame or to be responsible. It was for city councillors to have a report on how the purchase took place, who made decisions, and what the economic and legal circumstances of the purchase were. The ruling coalition of the United List and the Liberal Democracy in the City Council voted not to be familiar with this. I guess there's no need to comment on that right now. When this decision was passed, the Social Democratic Party Council Council Council of 31 January last year, more than a year ago, filed a criminal complaint with the prosecution, the Ljubljana Criminal Police, the Court of Auditors, the competent government agencies. In addition to this application, all the documentation was sent, which makes it clear that things did not flow legally. Most of these institutions responded within one month. Most of the answers were in the sense that they were not competent to say anything about it. All possible laws have been cited. The most receptive was the reply of the Court of Auditors, where the President of the Court of Auditors stated that neither the SIB Bank nor Energy were owned by the city, which had to be denied even by the current mayors, who said they were probably owned by the city. The President of the Court of Auditors said that they were not competent because the SIB bank was not owned by the city. The most interesting thing was the fact that this application was made by the State's Attorney's Office. One year after the State's Attorney's Office was asked if this application had happened, High Prosecutor Cerarjev said that this application had been put on hold somewhere. And she called our city council office on the phone, if they can send her that application again, after one year. It also stated publicly that it had been pawned. One year ago, more than a year ago, it was sent and it was pawned and nothing happened. Let's just say it all got lost and pawned, but it didn't. Just days ago, we learned from the media that in the case of the Mayor of Cyprus, Mr Popovic, who defeated the United List in the elections, but nothing was lost, but the proceedings went even faster and the complaints were filed, excused or unwarranted, I do not know. But I know for a fact that the application hasn't gone missing. In the case of SIB, however, she was lost, interestingly. To make things worse. This application was sent to both the Attorney General's Office and the Ljubljana Prosecutor's Office. And in both prosecutions, she's obviously lost her way, which can't be an accident. As the matter and the transaction was too large, the affair, despite all these lost reports and hiding under the rug, still erupted. The affair came to the public mainly because there were also 3.5 billion people with whom Ljubljana's Energetics overpaid the SIB, too little or much of that money went to the bank, but individuals who knew the transaction took advantage of it, and those who intervened say some of the stock exchanges that were specifically authorized to carry out these things. The most interesting are the lists of who sold and who bought and who was injured, which are also extremely interesting, as you can see which shareholders in this SIB bank were dedicated and who were not dedicated, which means that we cannot blame everyone for these concerns. For this transaction, only these things have been cleared and those who have been deceived have sold their shares to their shareholders from the same bank for a few weeks before they were sold again or twice the price are probably those who did not abuse internal information, but are those who were abused of this information, so not all are for the same basket. But it's more or less clear because you know who sold it and who bought it. Of course, the most interesting transaction carried out by the Gorenje Stock Exchange Company, when it became known to Vladu Klemenčič, is that the director of this bank was deducted by EUR 3,700 per share, one month after Energetics had already purchased a majority stake in the SIB Bank, after they had already had a majority share and when there was no need to continue to buy shares at such high prices, even if the previous purchase was justified. Mr Klemenčič, at the expense of small shareholders in the bank, and also at the expense of those who paid for expensive heating in the city, earned huge millions with this transaction. He found out one month after that by making the matter even more transparent, I'll say. The findings, which were also publicly expressed in this regard, were practically non-response, but the dogs barked and the caravan went forward or had money safely stashed in other banks, not in the SIB bank. Since it is obvious that this overpayment of shares by Ljubljana Energy will not be sufficient to put the bank on its feet, the Bank of Slovenia still had to request recapitalisation. At that time, the matter broke out, but it still did not come into any normal situation, when the right person said the matter was completely carried out, it did not act in time, let us act at least now. In this case, no one has acted. Again, there was an attempt to make the whole thing appear different than it really is, and that with some sale of this bank, it was trying to create an impression that it wasn't such a bad deal. However, the difference between the actual price of the bank and that paid by A bank in this case is covered by other transactions. To this end, on 28 February this year, the then Director of Holding and V.D. the director of Energy, Mr Rekar, signed an agreement with the A bank, in which he commits that public companies in the city will transfer to the A bank in the event that it buys the SIB and saves it and also outwardly shows it as if it were not such a missed investment of the city for five years, so in this case the A bank will receive all city deposits for five years or most, it is said, more than two thirds of the city deposits. This sums up to about 360 billion tolars in five years after calculation. One percent of the average interest of 360 billion is 3.6 billion. So, the Bank can overpay if it gets this deal, this deal that Banka Slovenije said yesterday is normal, then it can overpay these shares that Energy has in the SIB bank for 3.6 billion, because it will earn so much to no other business. Criminally, if that's true, it was yesterday on TV that everyone was acting like it was perfectly normal. Those who did this damaging transaction would even say: because we told you, we bought a share for, I don't know, 3,600 tolars, and now we're going to sell it for 3,600 tolars, so we didn't hurt anyone. But those who would have bought at such a price would have had a difference paid by another business that would have gone out of the same pocket. Thank God it's at least now publicly known what kind of deal it was. By the way, that deal was classified. Banka Slovenije said, this is a normal business arrangement, everyone must have some accounts, clearly. But the deal says the data is classified. If it were so clear and normal, I probably wouldn't say it's classified. It's in conflict with every logic. Even now, even at this stage, when the matter is completely obvious, those institutions, in this case Banka Slovenije, do not play the role they have under the law. They do not prevent damage and do not ensure normal business in which all of us in this country are equal before these institutions. We're supposed to sell this bank by the beginning of May of this year. Even a commission has been set up to do this. In the back of the scenes, however, such agreements as I mentioned earlier take place. More or less, however, it continues in the same circle. The only person who withdrew from these events formally, because he was a signatory by accident, was the procurator of Ljubljana Energy, Mr Pogačar. This one doesn't show up anymore. It appears in some other things. It is said that he made an application for the purchase of TR3 as a natural person. He probably saved money for that from his modest salary. But everyone else shows up. All those in the supervisory boards who have voted that they do not want to be familiar with the circumstances are still sitting in the same supervisory councils. I'm not gonna say the city councilmen are the same because they're gonna be the same as the next election. But the people in the control world are the same. They are also the same in responsible places in these companies. Senica’s lawyer, who gave the legal opinion that the SIB is a great bank, that it needs to be bought and that it is a good transaction, now advises Uni credito, which is also among the bidders for the purchase of the SIB bank. Those who have real influence in the city continue to run this game. The former mayor was just one of the figures who worked here. It wasn't crucial at all. To conclude, I think it is still necessary to draw the line and make some observations. What we are talking about now is just one of many stories of the Slovenian transition. I don't think it's even the biggest, actually smaller story. SIB is a bank with 1% market share, with 100 employees. This on the one hand also raises the question of how it is possible for such a small entity to make such a loss and such damage. Just in case someone's protecting him all the time. And this was protected from the very beginning, from the establishment that was political. In this sad story of Slovenian transition is a smaller story. What is most perverted is that this story shows that there are two categories, that there are two categories of people in Slovenia. One who is more equal, and the other who are less equal. In this particular story, we had two types of shareholders as well as two types of customers. Some customers who came to this bank received credit, although they did not meet the conditions, while others who met the conditions did not receive credit. And it could be so less successful, less pervasive business entity that received credit later became successful; the one who was penetrating did not get credit, not here or any other bank, but later could not succeed. In the shareholders - I explained the story - the shareholders who were deceived, sold their own shares to their colleagues at a low price, and they did so because they knew that there would be a purchase in this case by Energy, and there had already been some controversial recapitalisations because they knew that the price would increase. However, institutions which should ensure the equality of shareholders in the market system have declared themselves unfit. Mr Borak, who runs one such institution, even stated that it was in the case of the SIB bank for transparent manipulation; that it was a matter of substance that was very controversial and that the question was whether it was criminal. It's like there's no criminal law where there's an article that says that the abuse of the position is criminal, and these abuses here were huge as if there were no other laws that were broken. But the one who is a representative of an important regulator said, "it really wasn't nice, but it's probably not a criminal." So, do whatever you want, no one will punish you. At the last meeting of the Finance Committee, Mr Borak even said, "Well, you Members, however, amend the law so that an unorganised market of securities can also be controlled". But this Mr Borak has been operating in these institutions for the past ten years. He was involved when this law was written, and the same government was when this law was written, and it did not put it in, if only that law was the problem. And if there is a hole, they knew about it, or they deliberately made it to be used now. So don't fall for it! Five more issues related to the political background. The SIB's affair was created because the bank was already established as a political one at the beginning. For the second time, political connections have fostered decisions that Ljubljana’s Energy, after an unrealistic, overpaid price, will make the final acquisition or purchase. The policy also encouraged the Bank of Slovenia and other institutions not to act when they should, or on the other hand the total incompetence of these institutions, which I do not believe because I think they are capable but have not acted for other reasons. Thirdly, the matter was ridiculously political when the ruling coalition in the city council voted not to be familiar with the circumstances of the purchase. If that was a professional decision, then I really don't know what it is. And, of course, political connections. The one who read, let's say, only the Finance Officer, who was the only one who wrote a little bit more deeply about this matter, and even here was protecting some people, saw the same names coming up. Those who really made the decisions are political. It's not enough time to go all the way down here, so I'm only going to mention one case. This is the case of Mrs Metka Tekavčič, who is the President of the United List in the City of Ljubljana, is headed by the Finance Committee of the City Council, at the same time in the Supervisory Board of the Holding of the City of Ljubljana, and is also on the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank. And look, maybe by accident, maybe because of this influence, the Ljubljana Bank, I mean, two years ago, January 31st, mistakenly transferred 1 billion tolars to the bank's SIB account and thereby fixed the bank's balance sheet. By means of 1 billion. Of course, then they said, "Sorry, there's been a mistake." But the balance sheet was already fixed. Maybe it does, maybe it has nothing to do with Mrs Tekavčičeva, who is here in all these key bodies, but I very much doubt that she has no connection. The co-owner of the SIB bank is also the Capital Company, which, when it comes to the sharing of powers in the government, is under the Ministry of Labour. Mr Dimovski, who is Minister for Labour, is, of course, the husband of Mrs Metka Tekavčič. It may not be difficult to exchange some information and then seduce the matter so that a billion people are mistakenly accounted for. Some of these connections are related to the same person, but since there are others, I would probably have wronged her if I had attributed her a great role. The political commission established for the sale of SIB is also a political one. Mrs Alenka Žnidaršič Kranjc is a connected person in this story. The audit house, the owner of which was itself, was attached to the audit house which does the audit in these cases. Mrs Žnidaršič Kranjc is known from other stories of the Slovenian transition, she was also an advisor to the government and so on and so on. Political connections that lead directly to the government itself are also political, in addition to those that I have previously counted. It follows from this documentation, which is now quite extensive, that all that was necessary was to make legal transactions in these transactions in order to do so by the legal office of Senica's lawyer, who was also a city's legal representative. At the time these transactions took place, Mr Mirko Bandelj, who worked in this office at the time, was the Secretary-General of the Government, Minister of the Interior, and today he is also the Secretary-General of the Government. That's when he accidentally jumped over to the office to sort things out. As long as it didn't have any effect on these transactions, then he's got nothing. But despite these connections, I'd like to say this in the end. Notwithstanding the fact that the establishment of the SIB was political, despite the fact that some 10 million German marks were taken from the stolen budget and the modest budget at the time of the Slovenian independence, which would have been used bloodyly for other things, in order to establish this bank. However, we would not talk about this today because it was forgotten if this bank were to operate normally, if it created a normal economic operator that would benefit from the development of the Slovenian economy or local communities or anything else they would not talk about. So, you wouldn't have mentioned the continuity or the politics or nothing, or you wouldn't know about it. So I reject the obvious in this respect. We are talking about this because not only was this entity not only economically successful, it did not go bankrupt because of this, but it did survive by continuing to harm taxpayers and public service payers in Slovenia's capital. So, the obvious about this, which has already occurred in some television shows, is that you're dealing with a SIB bank because there are names known from before, so to speak, and that's why you're reading it to them. As has already been said, if this entity were to operate successfully, no one would have dealt with it, whether it was continuity or not at that time. However, because of these transactions, the injury, in our view, has occurred, it is of course important that the causes be identified. And the very important reason is precisely in these links, which are of course political. Only someone who has power and connections from before and who has strengthened them in the last eleven years, when it is virtually uninterrupted in power, can take things so far that all of this is happening that no one answers, nor is any criminal charge brought by the competent institutions and that he is also extremely unfairly rich. Anyone who tried to do the same thing could be even more evil or in any way corrupt, because he doesn't have these connections. This is why we are talking about these links, not for any ideological reasons, but because these political links allow corruption, allow for non-transparent action and allow for the blocking of the work of state institutions that we have in order to establish a legal order and to protect weaker ones on the market. The conclusions proposed are too mild for many people. These conclusions require state institutions to do the work that they should have already done, which should have already been done. And we need some reports within 30 days. Before passing final judgements, we would also like to be informed of matters that may not be known to us by these institutions, and because of such or other interests - we would be pleased to know that the interests of the investigation are also not known to the public. And after these 30 days, if these conclusions were to be voted on, it would be possible to say that anyone who had anything else to say said, and at least when it comes to public opinion, judgments can be rendered. At the end of this introduction, however, I would also say that none of what we have just described would have happened if at least one third of the seats in the supervisory councils were provided to the opposition or at least to unrelated persons in companies where the country has a majority stake, or in public companies, including at local level. If this third were guaranteed, none of this would have happened and in the case of SIB, taxpayers would have at least, if we were to add up, ten billion more money, and only some would have it. Thank you. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u15	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to ask everyone who follows you at the gallery to not otherwise disturb the work of the National Assembly. The Group of Members informed me that they wanted to introduce two colleagues, along with a colleague of Janša, a colleague of Dr Bayuk. They asked for a seventy-minute introduction, so that a colleague of Bayuk remains at his disposal for eighteen minutes. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Just a few introductory thoughts. In our speeches before this well-respected National Assembly, and in particular the issues raised by the opposition's members in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to the Prime Minister, both the current and his predecessors, we have pointed out the obvious gap between the words and the actions of the ruling coalition. This gradual failure to fully disclose the events, actions and omissions of the Slovenian authorities in connection with the purchase of the SIB by the public energy company is, in essence, a re-examination of this fatal divide that casts a dark shadow on our democratic order in general. At its 38th meeting, on 26 July 2001, one week before the holidays, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a comprehensive document entitled "Slovenia in the New Decade, Sustainability, Competitiveness and Membership in the EU", which is a strategy for the economic development of Slovenia. In its introduction, the Government stated that the purpose of this document is to present a conceptual basis for the development of the country and to offer basic guidelines and mechanisms for action by the State to achieve this development scenario. The government has added, and here I quote, "the strategy will achieve its purpose only if, even after its formal adoption, it remains a living document, which means that its approach and orientations will be the basis for creating a broad development consensus between economic and other social actors and will constitute the broadest framework for their decisions and for the day-to-day decisions of economic and development policy holders." End of quote. The main objective of the strategy is to ensure a sustainable increase in the well-being of the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia, which defines as a balanced whole of its economic, social and environmental components. Of course, these three components of prosperity, economic, social and environmental, also correspond to economic, social and environmental factors. Among the components of the economic factor, the government mentions that, given the level of development achieved in Slovenia, it is necessary to complete the process of transition restructuring of the enterprise sector, in particular the financial sector. So, reshaping the financial sector - a key component of the economic factor of this strategy for the economic development of Slovenia. Further, we find in this strategic document the following assessment, I quote. "The withdrawal of the country from the direct provision of public services and economic infrastructure is a general phenomenon in the world. The transitional specific problem of Slovenia is the withdrawal of the country from direct management of companies. The problem is multi-layered and is reflected in the high share of state ownership in companies, the political and client influence on the selection of large business administrations and indirect ownership through para-national financial funds. The problem can be solved only through the sale of state shares in companies and the privatisation of the financial sector in a transparent and long-term way." End of quote. Among the mechanisms for achieving these strategic objectives, the government continues to talk about the transition to knowledge-based society, strengthening the competitive economy and improving the efficiency of the country. The development of an efficient financial system and market-oriented development of economic infrastructure are given special attention and classified as the most important determinants of economic competitiveness. Specific guidelines and economic policy priorities in the area of effective development of the financial sector are divided into three strands: increasing competition between financial service providers, among which they specifically mention the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank and the development of the capital market; secondly, the urgent restructuring of financial service providers and thirdly, it improves in the area of the control system, which mentions a global trend that speaks to the single supervisory institution for all three segments of the financial market. As well as the development of the financial system, a chapter on the effective development of economic infrastructure is given equal attention. However, the common denominator of economic policy measures in this area is to ensure market-oriented development of economic infrastructure. The key elements of the reforms to ensure this are: cost-effective production, the management independence of economic operators, increased competition, effective regulation and control, and increased investment in economic infrastructure. Let me point out that this text, which I have mentioned so far, is drawn from a government document adopted by the whole government and not just the product of a group of experts. This is a document under which the entire government has signed. It's a document of the ruling coalition. Therefore, the clear strategy to be given a framework for everyday decision-making and action, clear guidelines on what is to happen in the area of the development of banking and the financial system in general, and what is to be the approach to the development of economic infrastructure. And the development of banking and the development of economic infrastructure are areas in which a few weeks earlier - that is, this strategy was adopted on 26 July 2001 and the first energy purchase contracts were launched in the first days of October. So this story took place in a diametrically different direction than the government had outlined a few weeks earlier in this strategy. Of course, it took place not without her conduct and quiet consent. For nothing, you can look for the smallest clues in these strategic government documents so that the government intends to support or at least quietly agree to exactly what happened. In view of the fact that the utility is a public energy company on the basis of the surplus of income that it has been given to it inadvertently and for our economy, the policy of the supervised forces has been irresponsibly implemented [[?]] simply bought the bulk of the banking institution in serious financial difficulties, and finally paid for it, as it has already proved to be on the basis of the value of these shares, almost ten times more than it is worth. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, a clear gap between words and actions - the standing of the government's action and the ruling coalition. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should prevent the purchase of SIB in its care for the development of the Slovenian financial system and banking and public sector in the field of activities carried out by the public energy company. In addition, it disagrees with its own strategy, and a few weeks after its adoption, the purchase of SIB has also been carried out in contravention of the basic objectives of operating economic services both in our country and in the developed world. The fundamental objective of their mission to these economic public services is to organise the satisfaction of those goods which are not available in the free competition market, since their production is most often linked to the use of natural goods which are limited. The operation of economic public services, which can be organised differently, is under the public control or supervision of the State or the local community. This control mainly relates to the regulation or regulation of prices and the development of these activities. In the implementation of economic public services, profit-making is subordinated to public needs; this is provided for in Article 2 of the Economic Public Services Act. Public sector development and reforms are diminishing the scope of public services in the developed world, and this direction of development is gradually already present in Slovenia, linked to the fulfilment of our conditions for EU entry, such as the sale of gas and electricity in the open market. The direction of development is to reduce the scope of this part of the public sector and, of course, not vice versa, to link the private banking sector to the public sector. While the public company Energetics may need bank services or bank loans for its development, it does not mean that it needs its own bank to do so. Restricts must also be respected in the public sector's indebtedness, as their indebtedness, both by our own rules and by international rules, is considered to be a duty of the State or of the local community. It is logical, therefore, that Prime Minister Rop, at the meeting of the National Assembly, replied to my question, not to support the development that the former government of the municipality of Ljubljana had established with the SIB; however, why he did not prevent this from being a financial minister or the administrator of the State's shares in the SIB and as a member of the government responsible for the proper development of public economic services at the same time as the local community. So what we have already mentioned in the public debate, Mr Prime Minister's answers to our question - the responsibility of the Slovenian government in this area is obvious. She allowed, as she quietly agreed, if not otherwise, at least quietly agreed that this story was taking place, in complete contrast with the planned strategy for the development of our Slovenia's economy; the gap between words and actions - the standing of this government and, of course, the ruling coalition. However, the government's responsibility is not the only responsibility in this area, but there are also responsibilities - in particular and above all - of the Bank of Slovenia, securities market agencies and other institutions, which we will also discuss further in this extraordinary meeting today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The material has been treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the competent working body of the National Assembly and I ask the Committee Chairman, Comrade Cyril Puck, to present the report of this Committee. Please, Comrade Pucka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, representatives of the government, distinguished colleague, respected colleagues. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposed material at its 41st emergency meeting, at which all the proposed material, representatives of state authorities and institutions were invited. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the material submitted and, in this context, in particular, the proposed decisions as proposals for acts of the National Assembly. This service also made certain comments on the individual decisions which the Committee further considered and amended accordingly or prepared a further proposal for conclusions. In the introductory phrase, the representatives of the proposers paid particular attention to a more detailed explanation of the reasons for the request of the applicants for the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly at which this proposed material would be addressed. In the context of the general debate, representatives of individual invited bodies and institutions highlighted some of the issues addressed in the material, highlighting individual facts. Thus, according to Banka Slovenije’s assessment, when granting its authorisation to the public undertaking Energetics for the acquisition of a qualified share, there were no formal reasons why the bank would reject the company’s request to issue that permit when assessing the exclusion criteria under Article 20 of the Banking Act. As far as the Court of Auditors is concerned, this does not have the legal authority to revise the SIB bank, but the Court reacted in the final stage of the revision of the budget of the Ljubljana municipality, which began in 2002 and under which attention was also given to the issue of the purchase of SIB bank. The draft audit report is already a preparation containing a specific chapter on this bank, so it is anticipated that by the end of April the answers to a wide range of now open questions will be known. The audit of the Public Enterprise Energetics and Holding Ljubljana is also under way. After a substantively rich debate, the Committee discussed or sought to take into account the opinion of the legislative and legal service on the proposed conclusions and individual proposals from the debate and thus prepared an updated proposal for conclusions, which is part of this report and which you have before you and would not read it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board. We will now hear presentations of the positions of the groups of Members; they have all applied for the presentation. First of all, Members of the DeSUS Club, their views will be presented by colleague Valentin Pohorec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary and Secretary of State! If the issue of buying and selling SIBs is one of the country's childhood diseases, which now counts as early teens, it will also have to be overcome as many other diseases in the past. We believe that the thing that we are dealing with today in the National Assembly is a matter of local level, the Ljubljana municipality, which should be at the bottom of the matter, but is now transferred to the National Assembly and we cannot resist it, and we have to deal with it with it with all our conscience and attention. We are of the opinion that the SIB case went through the prescribed procedure that we have with the laws prescribed that we have responsible institutions to do so, but that it did go through without, perhaps more serious consideration, and also possible rejections in the process itself when it came into being. It is true, however, that if any of these bodies - either Bank of Slovenia or the agency - refused the possibility of purchase to find capable lawyers who would challenge the decision, which would trigger a constitutional dispute that would start a dispute before the courts, and would probably get it as many other cases. Nevertheless, we believe that the competent institutions and, of course, the responsible institutions in them have been too little attention to detail in this case - whether they have acted too seriously - or whether in the laws that solve this area, we have too loose a solution and in short all the intentions that appear, whatever anyone thinks either at the local level or at the other level - to buy, sell and similar transactions to do - just, "go through". And that everyone achieves his goal, even though he is ultimately doomed to failure. Now the matter is so far ahead of us and it is high time to examine it to the extent possible, to find responsible institutions as well as individuals who - if so - have left their responsibilities and to be treated in accordance with the laws. We believe that in addition to the material damage that has occurred in the municipality of Ljubljana, their citizens, damage has also occurred in the country and that the greatest damage is moral, in trust with all the institutions present in this case, and this damage will be most difficult to repair in our opinion. We in our parliamentary group condemn every case of unfaithful, unfair conduct and even more so if personal abuse is present. We therefore fully support the proposals for conclusions, the complementary proposals for decisions adopted by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. We expect the conclusions adopted by the National Assembly to achieve their objectives and that the case will be fully investigated and those responsible will also come to their final responsibility, as our laws dictate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Comrade Pohorec. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by colleague Potrč, behind him by colleague Peca. First, Comrade Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we support the complementary proposal of the conclusions of the Labour Body. We estimate that, on the basis of the situation found, there are sufficient grounds for reasonable suspicion that the purchase of SIBs by the bank could result in personal exploitation, that there could be insufficient prudential behaviour by the responsible authorities and that this is the reason for the examination of the cases. We don't see any reason, the other way around! From the first day forward, we advocate the requirement that the actual situation in the municipality of Ljubljana, as well as in the National Assembly, be determined as objectively as possible and as soon as possible. As a result, we also supported the proposed conclusions on the home working body and were of the opinion that the issue should be addressed by the National Assembly. We are convinced that the transition in Slovenia, although assessed more successfully than in many other countries, has had its traps and also its reckless decisions, and we agree that a number of these decisions need to be checked to ensure that they do not open the debate to a new one and that we do not wish to cite many concrete cases on issues that are not the subject of the agenda, because decisions have also been taken recklessly. There is no doubt, however, that the most questions and the most unresolved questions, whether I say "acquisition" or "cases", were right about the finances, about the management, about the possibility of taking advantage of individuals, as well as about the large amounts, whether in equity, or in cash, or in real estate, which many individuals have reached in ten years, are certainly not on the basis of work and earnings, but also with, if not already illegality, but at least with the abuse of sufficiently precise rules. Therefore, it seems appropriate for each of these cases to be investigated. We'll be happy if one case goes through. Many have so far been set on fire, but they have remained in the air, even though they are still alive today. I won't consciously list them at this point, because then it would turn out that I want to return the ball to the other end, possibly with the names of a different province. However, I would like to say that, in the Group of Members, we have specifically advocated that, in addition to the specific case and responsibility of the affected, involved and also of the supervisory institutions in the case of SIBs, the issue of the rules themselves will also be examined and that our proposal has also been adopted unanimously in the Working Body of the Decision under the heading "All competent authorities, in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the Decisions, to assess whether and to what extent the existing legal order provides them with conditions and gives them powers of action that do not allow and sanction abuses in the acquisition of property benefits to individuals and propose appropriate legislative changes." We are convinced that it is absolutely necessary for the competent institutions and the national assembly to carry out a thorough review of their decisions, because we believe that there is a possibility that the rules will be interpreted too formally, that they will be implemented in a way that does not ensure that abuses and irregularities that then occur and that they are given dimensions that are also spoken of today. This is our fundamental principle and we want to participate in it. Whether the National Assembly or whether the speakers of this debate have chosen the best way to determine the specific situation and the specific situation, I must say, is another question. I expected that today's debate would be devoted not to the accusations of institutions and people who cannot defend themselves at this time, but to the purpose of substantiating the draft decisions they were supposed to make and of which there was no doubt from the outset that they would be adopted. Accept that institutions and individuals may have the opportunity to give their views on warnings, on understanding the rules, on their actions so far, perhaps on their own responsibility, and that this would be the basis for discussion and decision in the National Assembly. The panellists opted for a second path. This path will certainly be more politically appropriate, at least for today's debate, whether its outcome will be more appropriate or not, depending on what the answers to all the charges will be, many times very difficult, which have been given today. Individuals who have been appointed and accused will also assess whether there are grounds for their defence, or whether it is possible for each individual to make a statement about another before this speaker without any sanctions without any charge, without having the right to defend himself or herself. I think it will be necessary to consider whether the debate in the National Assembly on such sensitive and at the same time very important issues will focus on identifying only weaknesses and accusing one another or on solving problems. I am afraid that only the plenary meeting of the National Assembly is not the most appropriate form and path for this. It may be possible to do so on the basis of the reports to be submitted by the state authorities proposed in the conclusions. If so, surely the United Nations Group of Social Democrats will do its utmost to determine as accurately as possible the conduct and responsibility of the individual and the institutions and, above all, to propose the necessary changes to the legislation that would prevent further abuses. However, if all debates are intended primarily and merely to be politically charged with one another, then the result is likely to be worse than we would like in our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u23	Thank you very much. He now has the floor to present the views of the National Party's Group of Members, colleague Sašo Peče, behind him, colleague of Vnučec. Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u24	Your Honors are here! The Slovenian Investment Bank is not a bank in the classical sense of the word. This is a bank whose main purpose in setting up and operating was to provide financial resources to those individuals who were close to political leadership, at least at the end of the previous regime or - is one and the same - to the current leadership of this country. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the purchase of the majority stake of SIB was illegal. This, in addition to us, identifies a large part of the professional public, individual institutions, and I sincerely hope that Member groups, i.e. Members and Members, too. It should be stressed, however, that after our assessment of the liability for illegal business - sale, purchase - the government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has, through its own, at least state or parastatal, allowed and tolerated the last ten years, fifteen years of events under the terms "the bank". The positive nature of this point, according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, is being addressed by the SIB of the Bank, and last week the debate around the SIB of the Bank is mainly about the emergence of a green or Slovenian transition. For the story of the SIB bank is in any way part of this story. And a green thread or a red thread, whatever we can call it, leads us exclusively to political February and to those friends who are friends with them. Thus, to individuals for whom the bank was also established in the final phase or in the basic phase. And this light also shows us the attitude and the presence of politics in all spheres of life. In the National Party, we think of it as a particularly puzzling practice - the practice of the operation of this company. That is, not condemning institutions - institutions which, according to our assessment or I will basically count them first: from the Court of Auditors, the Bank of Slovenia, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Agency for the Market in Securities and, at the end of the phase, also capital companies and compensation companies - that they are not condemned to refrain from doing their work. But it is only in this Slovenia that we should all be satisfied that these institutions are included in the game when the games are over when the damage to the palm is done. So that these institutions are not already engaged in the basic tasks given to them in the law, that is to say, preventively, to try to approach problems in a timely manner, but always post-festums of this institution of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia deal with harmful facts. So, with the occurrence of damage and later with the help of politics, they try to put the whole matter before the court and say: no, the policy will not interfere with the court saying its damage is already done; and thus prevents the second part of the policy that attempts to actively enter the story until the damage shows up in its full effect. Unfortunately, I already stressed in the debate under the SIB last week that this is a policy of the Liberal Democracy and that it is reflected in the policy of friends of the Liberal Democracy. Today, however, it must be said that unfortunately, too, these stories will take as long as the puff will be the favorite and worst sin of the Liberal Democracy. When we are in this country or when the Liberal Democracy and Government of the Republic of Slovenia avoid this favorite sin, then the transition will be over and we can say: there are no more individuals who are only rich at the expense of society, with the help of friends from the LDS. In the Slovenian National Party we will of course support the conclusions, sincerely hope that this is one of the last stories of the Slovenian transition or harmful stories of the Slovenian transition. We also appeal primarily to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not only to carry out its ongoing business, i.e. those enshrined in the Government Act, but mainly to those tasks that are of much greater importance. This is to take the country one step further and not to wink at one or both eyes when it comes to talking about their friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u25	Thank you. The word is given by Bogomir Vnučec, Party of young Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! The inadvertent purchase of SIB by Energy, the majority of which is owned by the Ljubljana Municipality of Holding Ljubljana, was discussed immediately, during purchase or after purchase. In 2001, energy, with the excess of overpaid heating, bought a bank and overpaid it and in this way damaged it, we can say, each Ljubljanan for 30,000 tolars. However, the problem is not only in the high price of the shares paid by Energy, but also in the fact that the business of purchasing its shares was done by the bank itself and in the difference between the purchase price and the sale price earned 370 million tolars. That the matter of rumours has turned into an affair is primarily the responsibility of the elections and the exchange of people in the city world and the demand for the responsibility of the people involved in the business. The prosecution will decide whether or not they will be held responsible for their actions and may even pay for their actions when they file criminal charges. However, if it is not possible to purchase a bank without the knowledge and approval of certain state institutions, it is clear. Therefore, here is the question of what is the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia, whether their work has been done by both the Securities Market Agency and the Court of Auditors or other state institutions. Therefore, today's purpose of this meeting is to determine the actual situation and to establish measures for state institutions in order to report to this assembly. However, it seems that the meeting will take place in discussions that we could also hear on the working body of the mother. No one is guilty of anything and all institutions so far comply with the applicable legislation. We must therefore ask ourselves whether our legislation is so bad that the citizens of the capital can be deprived of billions of dollars and none of the institutions of control could act to prevent it. On the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we were able to listen to representatives of the competent institutions, who assured us that they had acted properly. Thus, in accordance with its powers and in accordance with the applicable legislation. The representative of Banka Slovenije, who agreed to purchase, says that there was no legal basis for refusing to purchase shares to companies such as Energetics. Despite the fact that Energy is a public undertaking established for the execution of an economic public service and that after the purchase of a bank on its part, it is impossible to exercise control over its business. The Court of Auditors is currently reviewing the operations of the Ljubljana Municipality and its report can be expected shortly. We hope that we will be able to learn from this report what measures have been taken to purchase the SIB and what was the role of the Ljubljana Municipality, Holding Ljubljana and other subsidiaries. There's gotta be something. The decision to purchase the bank has not been voted on the city council, we strongly doubt that Energy has decided to buy the bank on its own. Therefore, the Court of Auditors also prepares audit reports in Energy and Holding Ljubljana. It is a pity that these reports are not here today, as it would be easier to discuss and have accurate data on the purchase of this bank. The Director of the Securities Markets Agency himself admitted that he did not know whether the reports that the Agency was obliged to give to the Agency in the course of the sale of shares in the stock exchange are likely to reveal whether there was a suspicion of abuse of internal information, as the Agency sees a major obstacle in the incomplete legislation. In the securities market law, the concept of misuse of internal information refers only to events in an organised market rather than to non-organised. It is obvious that there is some work on our shoulders too, it is said, particularly in correcting legislation where we have now found it to be flawed. However, buying a bank itself is not the only problem. It seems that there are also questions about the lending of natives for the purposes of their return to Slovenia, as was done by the SIB bank under an interstate contract between the Republic of Germany and the Republic of Slovenia, about the high percentage of write-offs and could also be listed. The epilogue of the whole story will be known shortly. Energy has launched a tender for the sale of the BankSIB by 9 May this year. A commission has been set up to decide which offer to purchase the bank is most favourable and how the money spent on purchasing the bank will be recovered. However, there are already certain problems here as well. Among the potential buyers, A Bank and Nova Ljubljanska Bank are the most exposed. The first is due primarily to the so-called liquidity contract, which is intended to give it priority over the other providers, in particular because it had shares in the SIB bank and sold them dearly, but now it is re-emerging as a buyer. It looks like this is where it's gonna get complicated. Therefore, in the Party of Young Slovenia, we believe that today's meeting is only the first step in detecting any irregularities that have occurred in the purchase of this bank. Members of the Youth Slovenia Party will support the proposed conclusions and we expect a re-meeting or at least a meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to be convened after receiving the reports of the supervisory authorities, where possible further measures will be considered. The purchase of a SIB bank must not be another one of many affairs where things are dying after a certain period of time, but no one is responding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u27	Thank you very much. He will now be given the floor of his colleague Dr. Bajuk to present the views of the New Slovenia Group, followed by his colleague Podobnik. I'm a colleague first, Dr. Bajuk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to mention in this part of the presentation our assessment of the responsibility of certain institutions of our country, and in particular the Bank of Slovenia. From the point of view of compliance with the applicable legislation, this is the Banking Act, and international audit positions, which are part of our legal system under the revision law, we can only conclude that the greatest responsibility for the situation in the SIB between the institutions of the Slovenian State is borne by the Bank of Slovenia. The role of the supervisor, the Bank of Slovenia, must be, in accordance with the Banking Act and the above-mentioned international position of Basel supervisors, the following: safeguarding the health and soundness of banking, ensuring that banks have successful loan supervision procedures and that they are consistently implemented, obtaining the conviction - the supervisor - whether the bank has created adequate reservations, for example in relation to poor and questionable claims, correct evaluation of the net assets of banks and equity, taking care of the organisational structure and effective information arrangements, efforts to ensure that the quality of the bank's management is consistent with the type and extent of the business by drawing up an opinion on the professional capacity of the management and ensuring that the management has a clear picture of its strategy. The audit report, which was drawn up in March 2003, concludes that Banka Slovenije has failed to perform its role as supervisor with this bank. Banka Slovenije has known or should have known since 1997 that SIB has shown a significant loss of SIT 548 million, that the SIB is not a healthy and sound bank, that it does not monitor adequately the loans granted or that it does not regularly exhaust them, that it does not create sufficient reserves, that it does not have a sufficiently reliable control information system, that management, management is not quality, because it does not guarantee the Bank's health and does not have a strategy for the survival of such a small bank. Since 1997, the Bank of Slovenia should continue to assess whether the bank’s management fulfils all its obligations under Article 26 of the Banking Act, which requires, inter alia, that members of the bank’s administration must ensure that the bank operates in accordance with the rules on risk management; that members of the bank’s administration must ensure that the bank’s members monitor the risks to which the bank is exposed; that members of the bank’s administration must ensure that the internal control system is organised in all areas of the bank’s business and internal audit; that members of the bank’s administration must ensure that the bank manages the business and other books and the business documentation in such a way that it is credible and based on our legislation. Let me also mention that the audit house which carried out the audit in February 2002 wrote on this matter, as we have understood, and I quote: "...the bank has, in recent years, maintained a less stringent policy of recovery of poor investments and, in so doing, the creation of reservations." The Bank of Slovenia should also closely monitor the functioning of the SIB supervisory board of banks and determine whether it fulfils its obligations in the manner required by Articles 30 and 31 of the Banking Act, which imposes very specific and difficult tasks on the supervisory board, in addition to the fact that it already requires the company law. In the supervisory board of the SIB, the bank, as we know, also had a government representative as a representative of the largest individual ownership share. So the government had to be informed. In relation to the administration and supervisory board, the Bank of Slovenia has not acted as an independent supervisor or is, but is unsuccessful or weak - perhaps because of the political importance of management. The findings of the 2002 audit house show that Banka Slovenije, after the end of 2000, checked an important part of the EIB’s loan portfolio in the first days of 2001, and probably convinced itself that the accounts in which it issued a positive opinion for this year were not credible. In checking almost half of the portfolio, she also had to find that the loans were not returned because their rentals were being followed by so-called straw men, as was the name of the former Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr. France Arhar. In all of this, Banka Slovenije also raised a very unusual attitude to an external auditor. The question is why Banka Slovenije did not reject the ITEO Alphabet audit report in 2001 on the 2000 accounts, which was issued as positive at the time when Banka Slovenije itself issued an order to remedy the infringements of 20 March 2001. The Bank of Slovenia had the power under Article 121(4) of the Banking Act to reject the audit report if it had not been drawn up in accordance with the requirements of this Article and to require that the audit be carried out by another authorised auditor at the expense of the bank. The Bank of Slovenia did so only when this same auditor is a positive opinion for 2001. It did so in an order to remedy the infringements and additional measures to implement the rules on risk management of 9 November 2001, in which the Bank of Slovenia instructs the Bank of Slovenia to contractually hire an audit firm which must not be the same audit company. In this order, it also requested that the bank itself give its consent to the selection of the auditor to carry out a specific prudential review of the credit portfolio and credit risk management procedures in the bank. An extraordinary audit review had to be carried out under this provision by 31 March 2002. All these developments are confirmed indirectly by Mr Vice-Governor, Mr Nučič, at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy when he said, and I quote here: "From the data on the operation of the public enterprise Energetics it was based that this company could support a bank - a bank that was, as has been said today, already known in difficulty." End of quote. The Bank of Slovenia has therefore been known the situation in the SIB bank, but it has not been disclosed - we cannot conclude otherwise than in order for the public not to know what the public company Energetics will actually buy. Now a few more words on the issue of the authorisation of the Bank of Slovenia to the public energy company Energetics. This permission to acquire a qualified share was issued by the Bank of Slovenia on the basis of Article 20 of the Banking Act by decision of 28 November 2001 - repeat: 28 November 2001. Just a few days before that, this is 9 November 2001, she issued an order to abolish the already mentioned order to remedy violations of the additional measures to implement the rules on risk management. The Bank of Slovenia, therefore, by issuing an order to remedy the infringements and manage the risks, has clearly recognised or has shown that it has helped the public to cover up the actual situation of the SIB bank. At the time of disclosure of the actual situation, the players of the purchase of SIB banks in the public could not justify the price of shares, which was up to 50% higher than it was until then at least in the grey market. Of course, it did not hide this to the management of the SIB bank, to Mr Klemenčič as the first responsible, as well as to the supervisory board and actors on the side of the public energy company, the Ljubljana municipality, the mayor of Viki Potočnik. The Bank of Slovenia, therefore, was not interested in the fact that this purchase would harm the public energy company and thus the public interest of the buyers of the products or services of the public energy company, the public interest of the city of Ljubljana and the municipal municipalities. Banka Slovenije knew that the money invested in the purchase of shares of SIB Bank will be spent to cover the provisions for outstanding loans from the bank in previous years. She knew that additional reservations were needed even higher than the capital paid by the public energy company Energetics for overpaid workers of 78.7% of the share capital. The Bank of Slovenia knew that this public capital would therefore be lost immediately and that the Bank of Slovenia should also formally assess that the buyer, the public energy company, did not meet the conditions within the meaning of Article 20 of the law to the banking industry for the management of the qualifying share. The public company Energetics is shaping the prices of its products and services under control, which certainly does not allow it to generate additional profits or capital at the burden of its prices. The municipality of Ljubljana, as owner of the public enterprise Energeticika or Holdinga Ljubljana, did not decide on the purchase of a qualified share at all, as we have already heard today, what was also known to the Bank of Slovenia from public information, nor did other owners of the municipality. The municipalities as founders of the public energy company or Holding should decide on the purchase of the stake of the SIB in accordance with Article 73 of the Public Finance Act. The reference of Vice-Governor Nučič to the organisation of public companies in holding is that the public company Energetics is a subsidiary of Holding Ljubljana, i.e. there is neither a legal nor an economic justification to justify the eligibility of the authorisation. The public energy company itself - any public company can only provide additional resources through the price of production services or through debt to continue the rehabilitation of the SIB bank. In accordance with Article 88 of the Law on Public Finance, the public debt of public enterprises must also be approved by the municipal council. The Bank of Slovenia should therefore recognise that the public energy company cannot carry out the majority share of the SIB bank. In 2003, at the time of disclosure of the correct amount of the necessary reservations, the SIB became clear to the Bank for Intangible Loans, since the public company Energetics, Holding Ljubljana and the municipality of Ljubljana and other municipalities of the municipality do not have the resources for real recapitalisation, which will provide the Bank with the necessary capital. Therefore, the Bank of Slovenia has issued a decision to carry out a qualified share of the SIB bank to the public energy company, contrary to the first and second paragraphs of Article 20 of the Banking Act. Therefore, have this point repealed and the SIB return the bank to the original owners, those owners before 5.10. 2001 If Banka Slovenije, due to its participation in this sad story, participated in this fraud, had to cover the damage to the public energy company in the amount of lost capital - of course sad news - it would be a burden of public funds again, since Banka Slovenije is a public institution and its surpluses belong to the state budget. Finally, let me mention that, on the basis of our constitutional order, the Bank of Slovenia is independent but accountable to the National Assembly. I would like to talk about the government's responsibility in view of the inappropriate regulation of control over the exercise of public powers of the auditors or audit firms. In the SIB, the audited auditor for 2001 and 2000 submitted a positive or binding audit opinion on the accounts. The SIB was sold on the basis of these data from the audit report to the financial statements in 2000, which were issued by a positive or binding auditor’s opinion. The authorised auditor issued a positive opinion for the period for which the Bank of Slovenia has already requested action. The Regulation on the elimination of infringements and additional measures to implement the risk management rule issued by Banka Slovenije in early 2001 in March, at the time the audit opinion was issued by an authorised auditor, this year the actual situation in the SIB back-to-back bank, after the end of 2001, makes it reasonable to conclude that the authorised auditor has violated the rules on the independence of auditing or the rules of audit standards. The same authorised auditor also gave a positive opinion on the accounts for 2001, when they were also ineligible, as they did not generate sufficient risk reserve costs and in the contractual terms of the SIB’s irrevocable claim. In the case of SIB, the public raises the question: How will supervision of the SIB auditor be carried out for the years 2000 and 2001 at all? At the same time, the systemic question arises whether the new Audit Law has indeed provided for appropriate control solutions for audit firms and their authorised auditors? The Audit Act granted control over the exercise of public powers to the state control itself within the framework of the Slovenian Institute for Auditing, without respecting the solutions to which it pointed out guidelines for the development of the audit profession in the European Union. The opposition objected to the adoption of the new Audit Act in 2001, and immediately after its adoption proposed amendments and additions to the new Audit Act. Of course, failed. In his opinion on the proposed amendments sent to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of 15 June 2001, the Slovenian Institute for Audit wrote down, inter alia, and here I quote: "Any excessive reference to the guidelines of the European Union or to the legal order of the members of the European Union with regard to the regulation of matters of the audit profession is more or less barren, and to a good extent also to the misappropriation of the Slovenian public. Slovenian auditors will also respond to such experiments in the future with all ethical and moral sensitivity and engagement." End of quote. It's hard to understand. In the case of SIB, the bank is therefore suspected in public of the independence of our audit profession and this act of auditors is in line with the Enron affair. Not by material value, but by system order. It is the belief that this suspicion of the independence or connection of the authorised auditor with the SIB administration will not be disclosed or verified and sanctioned, since the authorised auditor, who issued a positive audit opinion for SIB, is at the same time the highest official of the Slovenian Audit Institute, the President of its Audit Board, who in the event of violations of the audit rules finds and also takes a work permit. In the case of SIB, the bank is also suspected of being independent of an authorised valuer who assessed the value of SIB’s capital at the end of 2001, which is the result of a purchase by the public energy company on 18 March 2002. In doing so, it assessed the bank’s capital even higher than that paid by the public energy company Upon reliable data disclosed by another audit house in 2003, the book value of this capital is in fact almost ten times lower than that of the authorised valueholder. The Slovenian Institute of Audit or its Council of Experts is also responsible for the granting and taking of licences to valuers. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for the appropriateness or inadequacy of the system regime for the supervision of the audit profession under the Audit Act for the exercise of the public powers of the Slovenian Institute for Audit. In practice, however, the Ministry of the Interior is in charge of the administrative procedure for the exercise of public powers, as laid down in the law. The auditing law empowers the audit profession to withdraw work permits from auditors in accordance with the specific administrative procedure laid down in that audit law. Finally, I would also like to mention the government's responsibility in terms of the systemic regulation of the securities market. On the sale of SIB, opposition councilors of the Ljubljana Municipality - as we have already heard today - sent a letter to the Agency for the Market in Securities in the first days of January 2002, among other things, informing the institution of the known information on the purchase of SIB by the public energy company, which is supposed to be based on the misuse of internal information. A month later, they received an answer. In this reply, the then management of the Securities Markets Agency took the view that trading in shares on the basis of internal information which is prohibited under the Takeover Act and under the Criminal Code is also a criminal offence, otherwise limited to an organised market. Since the shares of SIB were not quoted on the market or free market of the Ljubljana Stock Exchange, traffic with them took place on an unorganised or so-called grey market. Therefore, the buyer of the SIB was not obliged to respect the takeover law because it applies only to the acquisitions of companies listed on the regulated market and in certain cases to shareholders established in the property transformation of companies. The fourth section of the Company Act, entitled "Societal and Shareholder Legal Relations", incorporates the principle of the same position of shareholders in Article 219, which literally states [[Quote]] : "Ogans of the company must treat shareholders on equal terms." Article 219 of the Company Act, which guarantees equity in acquisition to shareholders, was thus not respected. Article 219 of the Company Act would only make sense if it were supervised under the takeover law. Since this is not the case, it does not have any real value, as it requires each shareholder to claim the right to equality and compensation on a judicial basis. In addition, the infringement of Article 219 of the Companies Act is not sanctioned. Thus, one of the basic provisions of the Company Act is not sanctioned, which is intended to protect small shareholders in particular. The question remains: Can it not be applied to the 244th Article of the Penal Code, which refers to the abuse of position or rights as a crime against the economy in carrying out economic activities without restricting them to an organised market of securities, as in the case of misuse of internal information? The issue is quite relevant because the report of the Securities Market Agency on its work in 2001 shows that the stock exchange and brokerage houses must also report to this agency on transactions carried out on the non-organised market. Since almost half of the shares were purchased by the public energy company on the basis of three different market-mediating contracts, it is clear on the basis of this report that the Securities Agency was aware of these transactions. Has the Securities Market Agency received these reports in accordance with the law? If she did not receive them, did she take action? If she received them, did she take action? If she was aware of the apparent violation of Article 219 of the Law on Economic Companies, is it not appropriate to expect that she would at least consider the possibility of enforcing this essential principle of our legislation? Otherwise, the government and the ruling coalition in the National Assembly do not pay any attention to the analysis of the implementation of the legislation governing the functioning of the capital market, although the business community and the media often point out the incomplete and uncoordinated legislation governing this area. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy does not consider such important reports as those on the work of the Securities Market Agency and on the market situation report. An analysis of the implementation of the Economic Companies Act has never been carried out by the Ministry of Economy. The Securities Markets Agency has submitted to the National Assembly an eight-year report on its work and a seventh annual report on the market situation of securities, without Members having ever considered them at their meeting. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its institutions, such as this agency, which would really like to regulate the Slovenian capital market, should take a look at the current problems of its supervision. However, the National Assembly should ensure that their reports are dealt with in a direct manner. On the contrary, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of the National Assembly does not even allow the consideration of the regular annual reports of the Securities Market Agency, as it did not allow the consideration of the annual reports nor for 2001. This is the year when there was more than enough information in the public on the non-operation of the Securities Market Agency. The justification for the inclusion of those reports on the agenda of the National Assembly shows only one of the several main tasks of the Securities Market Agency, namely the supervision of the takeover procedures. Let me add that in the first days of March 2003, the President of the National Assembly withdrew those reports from the Market in Securities, explaining that they were no longer current. Of course it's not true! The Securities Markets Agency wrote in its State of the Securities Market report: "These penalties against offenders available to the Agency are insufficient, and the same applies to other areas of its work. In addition to the insufficient sanctions, the Agency notes from its experience so far that certain technical corrections to the takeover law, which was in principle an internationally comparable regulation, would eliminate certain uncertainties in the definitions, uncoordinated operation and inconsistencies in the procedures conducted simultaneously by the different authorities, namely the Bank of Slovenia, the Office for the Protection of Competition. Most of the attention would be given to the consideration of the Securities Market Act governing the capital market in Slovenia, securities trading, the operation of the stock exchange, the operation or supervision of the Securities Market Agency. But only for those equity companies that are listed on an organised market. In the market market, which is subject to all the rules, today it censors cca. 30 equity companies. In its free market, there are an additional 100 shareholders. So it's about cca. 30 participating companies in Slovenia are likely to have a capital concentration under the control of the Securities Market Agency. For cca. However, this option is not even theoretical. This means that the vast majority of companies in Slovenia, which are not on the Ljubljana Stock Exchange, are not subject to almost any rules. If, for example, Article 219 of the Law on Economic Companies applies, shareholders in the courts must have the right to enforce them. Another specialty. There is no bank listed on the market in Slovenia. It's a big transition specialty. Thus, no one knows, among other things, how the exchange relations between the shares of the New Ljubljana Bank and the shareholders of private banks, the owners of the former daughters of the Ljubljanska Bank, which were connected to the NLB just before the sale of the NCBs, and neither, as far as these original owners of the connected banks earned. It is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, its financial ministers and, finally, part of the national council to purchase a SIB over the rules governing the transparent trading of shares in companies. The legislation governing the capital market in Slovenia is clearly and perhaps intentionally incomplete, uncoordinated and prevents control of the capital market and allows accelerated concentration of capital to the detriment of small shareholders or shareholders who do not have internal information. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The conclusions that we have proposed that this National Assembly should adopt and that have also been redesigned on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy allow us to carry out its duty, its duty as legislator and the supervisor of certain institutions which are required to report to this National Assembly in such a way that we, as elected representatives of the people, will act on this. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u29	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. Now he has the word of a colleague likenik. He will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. After him, mag. A visor. Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u30	Dear Mr. President! Colleagues and colleagues! Dear government officials! The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group is today speaking for the third time today on the issue of the sad story of the sale of SIB bank, as my colleague Dr. Bajuk presented before me. Today, in the opening speech of the first-signatory, we heard some new facts about this extraordinary meeting of our colleague, Janez Janša. I haven't heard them in person. I also personally believe that his performance was reasoned, substantive, corrected and in accordance with the agenda item. The question is whether the proposed decisions, supplemented in part by the Committee, are such that they will fully follow the information received today by the National Assembly as the supervisory authority of some institutions. Some of these conclusions may need to be supplemented after this event. I'll propose one myself. I will start in the same way that I started a week ago or ten days ago when we talked about the Prime Minister's response to Dr. Bayuk's question. All the time we have been discussing this controversial purchase of the Slovenian Investment Bank, it is important to stress that the National Assembly is ahead of the responsible task of maintaining the feeling that we are also discussing at this meeting a bank that is part of a very sensitive banking system. A good banking system works if savers trust banks and their supervisory institutions. This warning should also be taken into account in today's debate, as is the case with other banking issues. As has already been said here, the National Assembly is, on the basis of the Constitution, a formal supervisor of the Bank of Slovenia, which is an independent institution of the government. This fact also gives particular weight to today's debate. It is precisely on behalf of this responsibility which the National Assembly has under the Constitution and the law that it must ensure that the competent institutions disclose any irregularities that have taken place in relation to the operation and exchange of ownership of SIB and that the National Assembly is consistent in this regard in order to maintain the established confidence in the banking system and its supervisory institutions. As far as local, urban authorities, city and city council in Ljubljana are concerned, it is to clarify the purpose of buying SIB and the legality of decision-making in public companies owned by the Municipality of Ljubljana. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we join those who are concerned that the Slovenian capital is ruthlessly exploiting the monopoly of some economic public services and creating huge financial surpluses at ever higher prices. How is it possible that the interests of individual lobbyists, who try to exploit their privileged position, still hide themselves under the cover of price adjustment of monopolies to European prices? The prices of monopolies must be aligned with their real operating costs and depreciation. Financial surpluses or profits are unacceptable in this respect. However, let the Ljubljana City Municipality give its opinion and also initiate appropriate judicial procedures to recover any illegally lost funds. As already mentioned, it is important for the National Assembly to be very precise in defining up to the individual dimensions of the problems that have arisen with the affair of the Slovenian Investment Bank, because it is also a formal supervisory institution over the operation of the Bank of Slovenia. In terms of supervision, it appears that a number of supervisory institutions have been cancelled. Banka Slovenije has allowed almost 80% of the shares to be taken over by the economic public service, which, in our view, is contrary to the general interest that banks should gradually become private property. Banka Slovenije's supervision also overlooked that SIB had unusually many bad claims right in the last two years of business and that it was an obvious attempt to rehabilitate the bank with public funds. We expect the Bank of Slovenia to submit to the National Assembly an accurate written report on the decisions taken and on the course of the supervision of the SIB so far. The Securities Market Agency is an institution that, above all, warns that the purchase of SIBs for the abuse of internal information has recently taken place – this is a very resounding statement by Dr. Neven Borak - but that there is no legal basis for such abuses to be prosecuted on the way because SIB is not a public society. At the same time, at this meeting of the working body by Dr. Borak, it was proposed and called on the National Assembly to adopt an amendment to the penal code which would also allow such persecution. Today, it has already been said that certain other provisions of the same criminal code already allow such persecution. However, if this is to be supplemented, we are certainly also prepared as Members to propose a new Article 243 of the Penal Code. In our opinion, however, the law on the securities market needs to be complemented in order to effectively prosecute such a crime, which should specify all prohibited transactions. This will be the basis for the initiation of prevention and prosecution of manipulation and the exploitation of internal information in the securities market. An important supervisory role has been and is still by the Institute of Auditors, which has failed. ITEO Abeda d.o.o. has issued a positive audit opinion to the SIB. However, the bank had an abnormally high level of write-offs of bad claims, which should also show accounting standards. We call on the audit institute to exercise proper control over the authorised auditor and ensure that we may not experience Enron syndrome in Slovenia as well. In particular, it cancelled the most basic control mechanism designed by the owners of the bank in the supervisory council. It is important that the SIB supervisory board has not changed at all after the change of ownership. How is that possible? Undoubtedly, the new owner estimated that the members of the Supervisory Board were also representatives of Energetics. It is clear that, on the basis of the procedure, the Supervisory Board was composed of politicians and experts who came to this, on the basis of their own political activities or their status in the State or public administration. Slovenian legislation, however, knows a series of rules on the substantive and criminal liability of members of supervisory boards of shareholders. Is there a material responsibility for the situation in the SIB bank in writing them or for the institutions they proposed? I would also like to mention the role of the Anti-Corruption Office led by Boštjan Penko. In the last interview in one of Slovenia’s economic weeks, he said the following to the question of what his Office had done with regard to SIB. "With regard to the SIB, we have already stopped by more than a year ago, but we have been criticised for reducing the reputation of the bank and for doing business damage. We were even sued by the then Prime Minister. Since it took so long from our warnings to the case, it was possible to cover up all the evidence that pointed to the transfer of property into private hands. The evidence wasn't secured at the right time." This is said by Boštjan Penko, the director of the Anti-Corruption Office, and continues: "Until economic crime is dealt with in the same way as any other crime, and until the perpetrator is restricted to the right to seized property, which is found to be illegally acquired, all can be said and promised." So that's what Boštjan Penko, director of the Anti-Corruption Office says. Today, much has been said about the role of supervisory institutions. At this point, we would like to point out that one of the directives of the European Union requires countries to pool financial supervisors into a single institution. It is the supervision of banks, insurance companies, brokers and investment companies. We in particular have already been warned in the professional public and it is necessary to bring together all these supervisors, as the Slovenian market is small in order to create a larger number of good and independent supervisors. Therefore, there is no reason why a single supervisory institution should not be formed as soon as possible. We're informed that something was being listened to in this direction. But the key issue was who would run such a oversight facility. With the recent media coverage of the suspicion of abuse of internal information in the process of taking over some of our parade companies, we have also been able to learn that in Slovenia there are networks of friendly companies that protect each other from taking over or trading shares on the basis of friendly arrangements. The fact is that in Slovenian privatised companies there are still important owners of para-state funds, which are a different name for the country or that this transfer of political decision to businesses. The first task of such a new supervisory joint institution would be to disclose such links and then publish them. In particular, it would be interesting to disclose the friendly links between businesses and banks. Such a single supervisory institution is essential for the substantive restructuring of Slovenian companies prior to entry into the European Union and is a condition that the Slovenian economy can achieve a sufficiently high level of openness to foreign investments. We know well that in the 1990s we witnessed the creation of so-called banking pillars that were created on a similar basis as now friendly networks in protection against takeovers. For banks, there was a merger in the sale of shares and bonds that had to be issued to increase Banka Slovenije’s increasing demands for capital adequacy. It would be good to see the state of the banking pillars today and, if possible, not such illicit transactions. The current sale of the Slovenian Investment Bank, which is taking place very intensively, is of particular concern. Despite extreme media attention, which is supposed to deter potential customers of SIBs, these are quite orderly. In our view, it is illogical for this bank to come under the auspices of a bank where the largest owner of the state or any kind of friendly bank is a "friendly bank". The sale process must be managed in such a way that all supervisory institutions draw up their opinions and that the bank’s management and its owners establish normal business. We fear that the sale now, today, in these months would be completely unrealistic and that we would be willing to buy it only by a completely uninformed buyer or a bank that would order it from someone in the background. What would a SIB bank do with NLB or an A bank? One possible answer is that it is once again a friendly purchase for no economic reason and a new injury to taxpayers. For these reasons too, the parliamentary group will propose an amendment to the National Assembly to adopt an additional decision to read: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Bank of Slovenia not to issue in this final sale procedure a consent for the transfer of ownership of shares of the Slovenian Investment Bank d.d. until all supervisory procedures over its operations have been completed." Dear colleagues and colleagues! The current disclosure of the problems surrounding the purchase of the majority stake of SIB shows that something is seriously wrong in the part of Slovenian banking, in the part of Slovenian supervisory institutions and also in Slovenian politics. If it is true that there is such a strong link between the economy, politics and supervisory institutions, as has been shown so far by the disclosure of the facts that have led to the SIB affair, then it is an alarm, both for the national assembly and for the government and also for the Bank of Slovenia. Because it may not be a lonely case, but rather a rather common and typical pattern, which is now known to the entire Slovenian public. If Slovenia is governed by friendly networks, it is necessary to name such action with a single word called political corruption. This is one of the models and results of the Slovenian transition, which is called political corruption. In this interview, the already appointed director of the Anti-Corruption Office also said: "The results of our research among financial, commercial and principal directors show that half of the managers in our survey estimate that corruption is an inevitable part of Slovenian economic space. This finding was made one week ago. Some, for a country that is harmful to the contract, still apply. It is essential to link existing institutions and expertise in order to elicit signs of illegal behaviour. The result must also be the seizure of illegally-favoured property." The end of the quote of Bostian Penk. At this point, it must also be said that a good month ago, too, the Minister of the Interior, Dr Rado Bohinc, when faced with the issue of the scale of economic crime, simply found that the Ljubljana Department, which is in charge of combating economic crime, is neither human resources nor professionally qualified to simply lack people in this area. This information was very, very disturbing. In the Slovenian People's Party and the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are prepared to supplement some legislation, if necessary, as part of the procedures to be followed by the National Assembly, so that the supervisory institutions are truly independent and able to make a transparent financial system and separate between the public and private. We are not sure that the path through legislative change is necessary. In our view, the legislation already in force would allow much of this part of the supervisory institution to be done. Therefore, it takes the professional courage and political independence of those in such functions. Banks and other financial intermediaries are the brains of the economy. If it doesn't go the way it's supposed to, then it can get the whole economy sick. In front of us is the entry into the common European market and into the fixed exchange rate mechanism before full membership in the monetary union. The fact is that even Slovenian banks and even less other companies are not entirely in favour of this. With such a banking system and such supervision in the future, we will not be able to ensure the safe operation of banks, insurance companies and other intermediaries. Some studies show that there is a general phenomenon in the candidate countries and that, precisely because of the overly weak supervisory institutions and companies that have not yet been restructured, there is no indication that they are rushing into the European Monetary Union. The continuation of such a situation certainly leads to a serious financial crisis, and also to an economic stagnation that can prove to be reflected in lower economic growth, in a higher level of unemployment and also in the political crisis. Will we be able to cut ourselves with friendly networks, or will we have to do so in some international financial institution?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. You have announced the submission of the supplement to the conclusions. I would ask you if you could do so at the President's table, so that we will also inform colleagues of the text of your proposal. Now he'll get the word of a fellow magician. A visor. He will present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Please, Comrade Visjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Government, the Bank of Slovenia and dear colleagues! We are in the Social Democratic Party, both at the local level and at the state level so far, and we will also warn and try to prevent irregularities, illegality in our country and the local community in the future. In the past we have been able to witness various aspects of our country, from wild property, privatisation, slow denationalisation to many, many other anomalies. The case of the SIB, purchasing this bank, is also one in a series of these anomalies, these irregularities. But it's all in common. It is common that a handful of individuals, a handful of privileged individuals with political support and connections, take advantage and abuse of their position, benefit, of course, at the expense of the people, at the expense of taxpayers, that is, at the expense of our citizens and citizens. Unfortunately, this is, in fact, kind of expected, human that someone who is in a position can afford such a thing in the absence of certain values. However, for this it is a state, so it is legislation, so state supervisory institutions are to react in such cases to prevent this from happening both at the beginning and, of course, below. Unfortunately, legislation and state institutions have also failed in this case. They failed to prevent or sanction purchases when individuals with internal information harmed small shareholders and citizens of Ljubljana or our citizens and citizens. Slovenia is a small financial market. Slovenia is also, in fact, small as regards the surface area and the number of citizens. How, then, can we develop such a small financial market for the bank, but if in an unorganized market it can be both under the hands and in a "legal way with public money and internal information" and, of course, among brothers some deserve well? This is a problem for our society, a problem that is also evident from this case of SIB. We have heard here today that today's extraordinary session is not intended for any political accounting. No! No! See, the Social Democratic Party, through its representatives in the city council, pointed out recklessness, in fact the harmfulness of this purchase immediately at the beginning. Nothing happened. The whole time it was reported that everything was fine here, everything was in accordance with the law and that there was no need in fact and that the alarm was false. Only now, after almost a year and a half, when none of the state institutions did anything in this area, we are here in Parliament. Now some political elites are probably out of line. It's too much for them to talk here about the fact that what is practically estimated by all of us, including experts working in our country's control, is controversial, unacceptable on the substantive side, that this is "legal" for us. This happens and nobody gets hurt. Highlights apply, and: Why are we talking about abuse? Why are we talking about the exploitation of internal information and political connections, because actors and companies in this business are acting abnormally for such acts and it is actually evident that these links are being exploited? The SIB is a small bank and, in our opinion, it is not interesting if it does not serve individuals and privileged people for what is called financial services and money laundering. It is therefore one small, 1% market share, a bank that has written off a whole set of claims in recent years, according to data of 4.5 billion tolls of claims. More than the public energy company invested in this bank last year at the expense of the Ljubljanaians. Why? How can it be explained that a public energy company operating an economic public service, which manages and manages public funds, is using the purchase of banks. What kind of money is that? - With the profit she generated due to the over-charged costs of services to citizens and citizens. This is said to be a public energy company, instead of investing in the development of its own activities, in the improvement of the quality of services, in the distribution of gas and heat to users, the purchase of a bank is taking place. I think it's unusual for every layman, and actually dangerous for both the company and the bank. However, our Bank of Slovenia, which exercises control under the law, has granted permission to acquire this business and acquire this qualified share. Although it was clear to the bank that the bank was being purchased by an institution which was not intended to deal with the sale and purchase of banks. So, a public company that is dedicated to the distribution of energy. And this company does not meet the conditions for managing risks on the market. In fact, Banka Slovenije even knew about the heavy claim and poor health of SIB. What is suggested is that it was the rehabilitation of the financial service of the privileged by public means and that it was still well earned. Because individuals who used and abused internal information bought and sold shares by public means and, of course, made good and good money. I think it is very dangerous and very worrying - and I think that this is also the fundamental objective of today's extraordinary session, that when we know all this together and when all of this today is also quite unanimously condemned-in fact the role of the Bank of Slovenia does not actually feel any special responsibility in this, it does not actually feel its role and it says; "We have assessed that the legal conditions for issuing a qualified share decision have been met and that is why we have also issued it." Whatever. Banka Slovenije does not seem strange that there were several recapitalisations or repairs to the image and health of this bank shortly after purchase, and that the price of this bank’s share was now about 10% of the price at the time of purchase. I do not think that Banka Slovenije was interested in the fact that this purchase will harm the public energy company and thus the public interest of energy customers, products and services. Banka Slovenije knew that the money invested in the purchase of the shares of SIB bank, used to cover the reservations, would be for the bank’s outstanding loans from previous years. She knew that additional reservations were needed cca. - according to our assumptions and estimates - 8 billion Slovenian tolars and that these claims are even higher than the capital she paid. We estimate that Banka Slovenije knew that the public capital of Energetics would therefore be so lost. Once again, I would like to point out that the legislation, state and supervisory institutions have failed. The conclusions of today's extraordinary meeting are intended to ensure that both the state institutions responsible for the control of this operation and the purchase of the SIB. Finally, this case only produces a result, yields this result, that to such purchases, where small shareholders will be harmed, will no longer come in the future and that, finally, someone will pay for their work and also who will be responsible for their actions. I hope that the current government, the current political authority, will be able to break these internal ties, this family or financial or any other relationship between the various actors of this story - we have heard some names today - that we will finally take a step forward in this country in order to be equal. To be equal before banks, to be equal before laws and other state institutions. However, if the epilogue is similar to that of the SIB bank, unfortunately this is another attempt by the opposition to point out some anomalies, of course there was no spoil. As an optimist by nature, I believe that this will not be the case, not because of this fact, because we are joining and approaching European and other global integrations. This also requires a switch in our heads and actions, not just letters on paper. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u33	Thank you very much, colleague mag. A visor. I now invite my colleague Majdo Shirca to the floor. It will present the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Then there will be a debate between Members and Members. Comrade Shirtz, you have the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u34	Messengers and Members! The LDS certainly do not underestimate the purchase, operation and sale of the Slovenian Investment Bank. Far from avoiding discussion on this subject. Far from denying the search for answers that would clarify any false steps in this project and deny the possibility of verifying responsibility for them. If anyone is interested in clarifying things, it is the LDS, because we are moving more or less - and today at all - in assumptions and compromising assumptions. At the same time, however, we are aware that it does not matter what kind of framework the debate on the problem is suppressed and what the basis is given for it at all. Today's framework, that is, discussed at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, is controversial as much as it is at the extreme edge of the rules of business - or if I am more precise and if I take into account the comments of the legislative legal service - the material accompanying today's extraordinary meeting is not appropriate. Although we can get to know this material and ask the competent institutes to study it and report it to us after the study. As a legislative body, however, we can subsequently initiate procedures for possible legislative changes. But we certainly can't be a court, and we can't be a fast court. In this context, we support the complementary proposals of the conclusions of the parent working body that bypass this path. Today, however, we face material that is or prejudges unproven and unaudited claims. In it, the responsibility, despite the debate already held, is attributed to the Government to the reply of the Prime Minister to the question, in short. In explanation of the muzzle of expressions such as: "it arouses doubt", "it makes sense", "it was expected", "it is obvious", "it is expected" of the eceter; in addition, the material is already being accused without evidence to confirm the unlawful conduct. Are indictments and suspicions presented without adequate material sufficient to provide a basis for discussion? A debate about which, quite understandablely, the majority with me find it very difficult to find precisely because of the constant assumptions and synonymous and contradictory claims. The debate on the parental committee, the Committee on Finance, brings about one understanding of the competent institutions. According to some institutions, the relevant authorities are already preparing reports on the regularity of the purchase and operation of SIBs. If I mention the Court of Auditors and some other institutions. But this dawn, as we know it today, is not yet known. Another dawn, as the media presented to us in all their genres. The third was faced by saints and saints in the Municipality of Ljubljana. "The fourth dawn as it goes, saw nothing, knew nothing, heard nothing." The fifth is aimed at focusing on documents that have been green light for download, to obtain most of the energy in the SIB bank with reports with a very confident mark b.p. - without speciality. Sixth in the direction of intentional action with a view to the unlawful acquisition of property benefits. Seventh in the direction of political discredit, not to mention further. Undoubtedly, there are a number of intersections, sometimes parallel, but mostly avoidable claims, which will also greatly support the last act in the story of the SIB bank, i.e. when it was sold. A sale that takes place in a situation that devalues its value to an extreme degree. But what we want to stress is the fact that, at this point, constructive debate is difficult because we do not have reliable and thorough data. Such a discussion will not be possible until such decisions have been adopted. It is also worth mentioning that the competence of the National Assembly is not in the determination of criminal and compensation liability. Its essential, essential function is a legislative function. If we vote on the conclusions that the competent institutions are submitting their reports and proposals for the revision of legislation in this area, we may be able to address those shortcomings that are or will eventually be presented by the current legislation. However, only the court and the relevant authorities referred to in the conclusions may make observations on the possible inadvertentness, the unlawful operation of individuals or institutions. But I am concerned or worried about something else. The fact is, at the city level, we have proposed the establishment of an investigative commission to be led by the opposition and to have the majority of its Members and Members in it. It is intended to act by clarifying in detail all procedures relating to the purchase and operation of SIBs. This decision was reasonable and necessary, since the case is taking place or has occurred mainly in the field of assumptions, assumptions, conclusions and probably also on the basis of the information provided selectively. In short, 14 decisions have been voted at the city level, which are more concrete in relation to the place of declaration than those on the table today. The meeting material at the city level has also been better prepared and reinforced with credible documents, certificates and records. However, from 20 and 21 February, when the night meeting of the Municipality of Ljubljana was held and when the Commission of Inquiry was voted on, there is not yet a commission. Not because she'd be opposed to her position. On the contrary, the position suggested it, but because I will not say it closed the opposition. This makes it conditional on the appointment of its members to trade in other functions. More! We read in today's paper that such a commission alone cannot do anything unless proportionate, at least a third of the opposition's control in all supervisory authorities, is ensured, in order to prevent the story from repeating itself with the SIB or any similar. This is a dictatorship of the text of the SDS Council Club, which was sent to the MOL Commission on 7.3.2003. In short, we can conclude from this that the SDS Commission does not want to, because the Commission may already be on its own. So what does this claim tell us - that, in fact, the opposition does not want to face a body that explores with very resilient conclusions as well as defined tasks? It tells us that not every arena is suitable for clearing up the SIB's operating circumstances and that it is linked to broader - I can also say - political and not merely to the bank's reduced problems. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u35	Thank you very much! With this, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have concluded the part of this point when the parliamentary groups presented their views. We are now moving on to a debate between Members and Members in the order in which you are written. Comrade Kebrich will have his first word, followed by his colleague Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues and Mr. Minister! Personally, I believe that there has been a lot of talk and that it would not be prudent to repeat such and other conclusions, but also proposals and others. It's a very serious matter. This is not the first example of how, in certain ways, certain - I will say - elements - I think of a person - with such and different manipulations, with prior knowledge of internal and other information being used personally to a large extent. That is why I think it is right for us to hold a debate in this national assembly, as it is now on the agenda. I believe it is essential that, in the conclusions of all these comments, all these accusations may be found to be true guilt for "certain matters" on the other hand. However, for these faults, certain competent institutions have a finding that matters must be dealt with in view of this, not only that the campaign or subject has become so up-to-date for the public at large, but also because of our interest and because of our existence, because we are a legislative body. If a marriage is lacking, those who are wiser can take advantage of it in a purely legal way. My belief is that with money and material benefits, we don't even know morals or ethics. The one we respect is in a great minority. Therefore, I think it is right that, at the end of all these discussions, we will come to the appropriate conclusions which, in the form of conclusions, will have to be presented and held seriously by certain institutions; to take into account and carry out the tasks they are undertaking, to which they have all the powers and for which they also have sufficient opportunities and resources. That's my personal opinion. As long as there is time left, I will or my fellow Members will answer. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Comrade Kebrich. My friend Horvath is not in the hall. Let me immediately say that colleagues and colleagues who, when they should be in the Chamber, are not, before the general discussion is concluded, will not be given a word. Comrade Jelinčič, you have the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Sašo Peče said that SIB would be a bank, so-called, the last or one of the last stories of the Slovenian transition. I'm afraid not. Because it all points to something very strange that there was a lot going on in Slovenia during the reign of Mr Drnovška. If we look at it, then Constitutional Judge Krivic arranged for the Roman Catholic Church to receive the forests. At that time, the same gentleman, the Constitutional Judge, banned the referendum on restricting this property to 200 ha and then the Liberal Democracy made sure that the referendum was withdrawn. Some of the leaders of the parliamentary groups or parties demonstrate their involvement in Mr Drnovšek's unusual business in the Depali village. Mr Drnovšek, in his rule as President of the LDS, also as President of the LDS, in writing, prohibited further research into arms trafficking. It was happening to the SIB. There was a plane going on. There were protocol objects. There's been a nunciature. There has been a lack of respect for tax legislation or respect for some and a lack of respect for others, double criteria for regulating tax matters. There's a lot of trouble. Now I am not talking exactly and specifically about the SIB. And I'm not going to talk about names that are supposed to appear in here so I don't get punished. For the Slovenian Member has no immunity, and if he utters any name, they shall immediately sue him, and of course they shall gladly condemn him. However, those who misused the taxpayer’s money are not condemned, even in this case, in the case of SIB. In the conclusions we have before us, everything is written in the way we know it: no one has ever been guilty, no one has ever been guilty, and no one will ever be guilty. For already in the first decision he says that the relevant institutions should "examine possible irregularities". In the fourth decision, the same institutions or bodies should "appraise" or to what extent the existing legal order provides them with conditions and powers to act that prevent and sanction abuses and so on and so forth. Where are the sanctions? Nowhere! The sanctions are not due to the involvement of political parties, primarily the Liberal Democracy. I mentioned earlier some cases that are eclectic and that cry out into the sky - no one will be punished. The former President of the Liberal Democracy will continue to reign in the protocols in Brdo. The matter, as a colleague of the Liberal Democracy has said, is just in Banski dvory - and literally in Banski dvory - and no one will be harmed. But they're going to shut down farmers who didn't get enough crops and they stole a bag of potatoes from a neighbor's field. They'll lock up those who steal cans from stores because of hunger and stuff. I think the Slovenian country is in a serious crisis. In all areas, this crisis has been brought to the fore by the former President of the Liberal Democracy. Because the Slovenian proverb says "what kind of commander, such an army." None of these gentlemen have ever been called to the defense, nor at the party level, but elsewhere. I think the current President of Liberal Democracy, Mr. Rope, has a terrible burden on his back. I don't know how he's gonna wear it. But I'm afraid we're gonna have to deal with him, too, by all the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič. I don't see my grandson in the hall, so I'm inviting Dr. Bajuk, who is also absent this very moment. My friend Christmas doesn't want a word or he's gone. Comrade Tuck, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. In 1990, a group of selected people, along with some others, set up a bank and, of course, drew some ten million German marks from the budget, plus the money that the German state has devoted to returning our natives to their homeland and thus to some way of resolving their material situation. The Bank's management was taken over by a well-known gentleman, the then senior official of the Union of Communists of Slovenia. You know what that bank was for. A certain layer of selectors created a secure financial nest in which they hired their people and enabled them to acquire high credits that some individuals have never repaid. In 2001, a second grab of public funds followed, not from the state budget, but from the city budget. For the stocks at an artificially high price bought Ljubljana's Energy without giving consent to this purchase all the things it has to, this is the city's world. You know, we know the whole thing. That's when all the control mechanisms were canceled. Banka Slovenije was hiding the situation in the SIB bank because they were able to artificially raise the prices of shares. Banka Slovenije has also come to light before buying a majority share from Energy, which is not a banking institution that has no terms or rights to acquire a majority share of a bank. The Court of Auditors said that it was not competent for these cases, the Prosecutor General lost the complaint, the review was carried out by those who, in a way, also co-owners of the bank, the supervisory councils run those who are themselves or their family members deeply involved in all the events, the names we know, the names were published in the newspapers. The Director of the Securities Market Agency said or said so and explained his opinion on the Finance Committee a few days ago. I quote: "My opinion and the opinion of my colleagues is that this was the case, that is, in the case of the purchase of a SIB bank, in fact for arrangements that criminals should use to reconstruct to the extent that we can also find the relevant articles of the penal code by which these acts could also be prosecuted." Furthermore, I quote the Director of the Securities Market Agency. So he says, "In the six-month knowledge we have in the agency and after observing the events, I can safely say that what is happening in an irregular market is probably just the tip of an icy mountain compared to what is happening in an unorganized market." Gentlemen, in this case, we're only talking about some crumbs, some tip of an icy mountain. And what lies beneath the surface will we know when this country cracks like the Titanic. Indeed, the unorganised market is still the market in which a complete anarchy reigns. Anarchy for the workers. For the dismissed workers are left without departures and shares. For companies have not privatised in terms of the formation of shares companies where shares are listed in an organised market. Workers are therefore the ones who will be finally robbed of certain rights in order to reinvent a layer in one way or another into an unorganised market. I myself come from a congregation where we have such a business where dismissed workers have been waiting for many years for their petty rights, but the rights to which they are entitled. However, they cannot be reached because the company has not been quoted on an organised market or has not been owned within the meaning of our legislation. It is also the top of the icy mountain for the municipality, the Municipality of Ljubljana. You know, you know very well how it happened to buy Rog's land, where Vika Potočnik, the then mayor, bought the land for 9.2 million euros, although two years earlier the value of the same land was half less and was on sale or on the market. As you know, this case is also related to other things about the Horn. In fact, the land was then leased to the company Rog, which is owned by the majority of the company Skimar, whose director is Uroš Korže. We've met this before here when we discussed Elan. After renting 1,700 Euros per month, the city of Ljubljana will not return the rent after 300 years. Gentlemen, here too, someone has made a great use of or is still taking advantage of the Ljubljana budget, at the expense of the Ljubljanaians and their public business offices in Ljubljana. I mentioned the corset because of somehow showing or at least letting sense of this basic Slovenian problem. There are always the same names in every affair. The same names over and over again, their wives, their husbands, their connections, both in the agencies and in the boards of directors and so on. No art can gather these names and determine their political definition. It's not hard! It follows that - a very good thesis and desire - should the state withdraw from the economy.Our country has indeed been withdrawing from the economy for ten years, but withdraws from the area where it should exercise control in which it should protect a small shareholder, a worker, a small person in which it should implement social policy. This is where this country has completely retreated. But she did not withdraw from those layers where there is a decision where there is a place of social property where fraud occurs. She didn't back down here. How is the country involved in this area? Thus, gentlemen, since 1991, 501 crimes have been detected in the field of economic crime, and only a good tenth of them, i.e. 58 judgments, have become legal. Thus, of the 70 cases in which the Anti-Corruption Office has found a crime and left the matter to the police, not a single case has reached the epilogue so far. Gentlemen, this policy, this country is involved not only in the decision-making of the economy, but in the judiciary, in the police and wherever it is decided and where those who control and create a legal and social state should react. I will not talk about the biggest Slovenian sin that we all know well, this is about human resources cleaning. I'm not talking about health care, where the director of the Health Insurance Institute, the last clean-up, was the director of the Oncology Institute. It's the other ones' turn. You yourself know all the other human resources clearances in control councils and everywhere. What's going on with these cleaners? It happens that this government and this political option, which is just so much time in government, is setting people up by political affiliation. So, not by decency, not by ability, not by honesty, but by political affiliation! But that's not the worst of it! The worst part is that this criterion applies to the treatment of their actions. Indeed, individuals in this context who have come to their decisive jobs in this political corruption - that is to say, in this clientism, an individual is not treated by ruling parties in such a way as to assess his sins and to say, if you cheat, you will be replaced, but replaced only when it is no longer politically correctly defined. Therefore, other criteria, political criteria, apply to both adjustment and exclusion. Meaning: In cheating, of course, such people continue to be customers of their customers and experience the protection of their customers. This may mean a painful matter for a ruling party, but it is carried out by concealing or somehow devalued, minimizing or saying, "We don't have suitable grounds in the law to commit crimes, to pursue theft". They're certainly protected to the end because the client thinks it protects only himself. This is the greatest sin of our transition, which is not sick because of childhood sickness, but because of the terrible plague. Because of the plague - gentlemen - in which I do not see a solution. Although I'm an optimist by nature, I'm a pessimist in this case. The pessimist, because ruling parties are thus trapped in their clientism, are victims of their own mistakes and cannot swim and will not float out of it. I am pessimistic because we are Slovenians, as the real director of the Anti-Corruption Office - which has already been quoted - and he says this: "it is so much easier for us to carry out such political corruption because we Slovenians are satisfied with the small, we are willing to work for a fairly low salary and we are not politically engaged to go to the streets." That's the problem! Gentlemen, keep working like this. Your elections are also provided for in the next term. Sorry, that's right! I think in this transition the state found itself on a dead end. How to get out of it, I don't know. I don't know! With such a situation, with such media coverage, with such a passivization of our electorate. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u41	Thank you. I'd give Maja Shirtz a word, but she's not here. That's why I give the word to Miran Potch, the United List. [[He doesn't want to.]] Marco Diaci? [[She doesn't want to.]] Majda Zupan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In my contribution, I would like to raise in particular the question: Why was it that in 2001 none of the banks, nor Nova Ljubljanska banka, were there any banks, even though the Slovenian Investment Bank had already connected with it - to buy Slovenian Investment Banks and to deduct 2,150 tolars for shares? It was necessary to use old ties and create conditions for the bank to buy energy and pay for stocks of 3,200 or 3,800 tolars. Now that the bank is being reselled and its price reaches - in the opinion of some experts - only 320 tolars, however, the Bank as a buyer lays down the condition that the city's assets are placed in the bank for another five years. 360 billion is not a small resource. The Slovenian Investment Bank was established in the early 1990s on a political basis for the needs of craftsmen and entrepreneurs. It was authorised to distribute loans approved by Germany to finance the return of our natives. That the bank had not stood on the most sound financial bases, her management had known from the outset, since we have been tracking the idea that Banka Slovenije’s conclusions would sooner or later force it to achieve the required capital adequacy and therefore began to look for association with another bank. According to Director Klemenčič of that period, many attempts have been made to unite, but no suitable interlocutors have been found. Soon thereafter, they decided to recapitalize themselves by selling so - called hybrid instruments to well - known buyers. This meant a great burden for the bank, so they still thought it was a more appropriate form of merger. Thus, at the 1996 Assembly, shareholders took a principled decision on linking with one of the banks. In 1999 there was finally a connection with the New Ljubljana Bank in the business and capital area. The ownership share of the country at the time was more than 40%. Although the Slovenian Investment Bank has remained a separate legal entity, it is expected to act as a specialised small economy bank within the framework of the New Ljubljana Bank system. This became her second largest owner by purchasing shares. Finally, the Bank is expected to join forces until Slovenia enters the European Union. However, for the Slovenian Investment Bank, integration is expected to make it possible for the Slovenian Investment Bank to continue to exist in the face of increasing competition. Interestingly, the Treaty with the New Ljubljana Bank provided for cooperation in several areas in the application of the same criteria for ranking credit rating committees. Who followed whom? Coordination of information technology and liquidity management. At the beginning of 2001, they were preparing for recapitalisation, which was expected to be carried out by the first summer and to increase basic capital almost by half and also improve capital adequacy. Some of the capital required is to be obtained from the sale of shares to existing shareholders and larger owners, and some are to be purchased by better standing companies. At this time, the country is still their largest shareholder, more than 61%. However, the strategic partnership with the New Ljubljana Bank was strengthened in particular in the area of liquidity cooperation. The bank's board of directors and its liaisons were looking for the best solutions for them. That's the solution they found in Energy. There were two reasons, namely the possibility of developing the bank independently and the prospects for employees, and on the other hand the fact that Ljubljana, with its wider surroundings, would have a majority bank to promote the development of small economy, housing, environmental investments and the like. The bank was therefore purchased by Energy and overpaid, with the money being contributed by citizens through high amounts at gas and heating stations. The Slovenian Investment Bank has cost Ljubljana as much as 3.47 billion tolars. Neither a careful financial and legal review of the operation nor the valuation of the bank prior to the purchase of Energy. The financial review and evaluation were carried out only after the acquisition of the majority share. In all of this, the Bank had the greatest benefit as it purchased shares from its owners for Energy, creating a very large profit from the price difference. After buying shares of 2,100 or 2,300 tolars, she then sold them to Energetics at a much higher price of 3,5,000 tolars on the basis of a previous commission contract. Thus, Mr Vlado Klemenčič, Director of the Bank, kept the imported bank alive for a while. Therefore, the Bank purchased its own shares for Energy which it paid before the Slovenian Investment Bank acquired them from shareholders. Energy also purchased through the publicum stock exchange house, where they had their shares of the insurance company Triglav, insurance company Tilia, Nova Ljubljanska banka, SKB. The price for the Triglav insurance stock package is said to have been formed in the narrow group of Mrs Nade Klemenčič and the mayors with the closest associates. How much that price was, it's not known. However, it is known that Publicum sold energy shares at the price of 3,800 tolars. The developments around the Slovenian Investment Bank thus show in a way that has been practiced by the main players since the last infamous period. The fact is that the bank's management with Vlad Klemenčič at the head of the financial statements classified the borrowers as higher rating classes, although they did not meet the conditions. By doing so, it covered up the necessary level of reserves, which, by the way, increase revenue and reduce the business outcome. In particular, it was covering up irrevocable claims, although Banka Slovenije’s supervisors had been alerting the bank since 1998 to poor claims, incorrect ranking of borrowers and demanding recapitalisation. However, it remained only for warnings and demands, but what more has the Bank of Slovenia not done. However, auditors and evaluators are also very involved in what is happening. In spite of the above irregularities, the authorised auditor issued a positive opinion and confirmed that the accounts for the years 2000 and 2001 were fair and genuinely financial and business outcomes. However, the question arises whether an authorised auditor has thus made it possible to conceal the loss and the true value of the shares or to conceal the real financial position of the bank and whether the audit profession, given the involvement of its auditors, is even capable of acting alone against the irregularities of its members. As stated, the business review in the Slovenian Investment Bank was ordered only after the acquisition of the majority share, while the owners were informed that the bank had not fully formulated the reservations and had not consistently recovered the outstanding claims. The bank was far from in such a position that the owners could be satisfied. The responsibility certainly falls also to the former mayor of Viko Potočnik and to her cabinet, since the city municipality is more than 83% of the company Holdinga, which is the founder of the public energy company Energetics. In all of this, it is interesting that the Holding Supervisory Board has had a very special hearing and has only taken a decision on capital investment without defining the conditions and values that it justified by allowing unauthorized behaviour - and probably thinking of more information that it should obtain - so that the unauthorised handling of these data could lead to a modified value of the share. In the Slovenian transition, some were able to find their options. They made a lot of money. Others were able to observe and wonder for when. Similarly, shareholders who were not in equal standing at the time of the sale of the bank as the shares were not purchased at a uniform price. This is also contrary to Article 219 of the Company Act. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are wondering when we will allow this to happen and when we will act as legislators and supervisors. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u43	Thank you very much, colleague Maja Zupan. My colleague, Janez Spožnik, now has the floor. After him, colleague Petan. First of all, Comrade Podobnik. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u44	President, thank you so much for your word. I'd just drop by for a second. I would like to inform you that we have tabled, on behalf of the Group of Members, on the conclusions I spoke about on behalf of the Group of Members. In today's debate, I have two issues that I think should be given a clear answer. The first is that we have heard today that the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana received a complaint last January about the irregularities in the purchase of the SIB bank, that the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office has also received this complaint and has even lost it. Today we have heard information that, even if I have correctly understood the High Prosecutor's Office, it has asked the applicants to resubmit this complaint to it. It's such a slip that someone should be held responsible for if that's true. This is such a slap in the ass in the face of the state's attorney's office that it can't be bigger. If the D.A. calls someone to send her the document again after a year. Well, this information has given me a very negative surprise. I hope this information isn't accurate. The second is related to this has been said many times today - the procedure when Banka Slovenije gives consent to transactions, i.e. to purchase shares when she sees who bought them, who is the new owner, in this case the majority owner. In fact, Energetics is a subsidiary of Holding Ljubljana. It is clear that Holding Ljubljana is not registered for banking activities with all dimensions of this word. How could the Bank of Slovenia give its consent? If it is considered that the owners of the bank must be able financial firms and must have all the ratings and expertise in order to be able to manage the banks. On the basis of which the Bank of Slovenia has found that Holding, especially Energy, has such experience, so prudent and so on. Here I think there is a greater controversy on the part of the Bank of Slovenia, that it has simply given its consent to this purchase. But it seems that in the debate itself, we cannot get an answer to this question - I hope that, on the basis of the conclusions proposed, the Bank of Slovenia will understand them in such a way that it will give us an answer to these questions. Of course, these conclusions say "eventual irregularities". If the one we ask thinks there's no irregularity, he won't answer us. I think we need to make an amendment and say, "irregularity," because there were regrets, irregularities, at least some. But if we write down any irregularities, some of the addressees will find out, unfortunately, there was no irregularities, and I have nothing to answer you. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. Comrade Petan. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! My colleagues have already said a lot about this problem. I would say, however, that this case around the Bank's SIB clearly proves - that it would not simply use the term "scream" - that Slovenia, unfortunately, is still not a democratic state and a rule of law. Such cases prove this. The fact is, the information was hidden from the public. It seemed to be in tight circles. In any case, close to the government or with the support of the government or at least silent support. These circles also dosed information that could be made public. Last but not least, this proves the requirement - I think - of the SDS Members' Group and of New Slovenia in the Ljubljana City Council to obtain additional information or, as the City Council has been told, familiarize itself with the circumstances of this purchase before purchasing three and a half billion tolars. This was, of course, elegantly by the ruling majority, which was made up of LDS and the United List, rejected. That's what it says to get information about an investment that weighs three and a half billion tolars. That proves something was hiding. Because why else would we be afraid of the information we could get? By the way, for other agenda items, we're getting information right on the table. There's no way to do that here at the extra request. It's a sky-screeching case. All of this suggests that he can probably have his own imagination, he can do his own thing. But obviously, it's just not that simple and hair-attracted. I would also like to say that we are not yet a rule of law, because obviously all economic operators are not subject to the same conditions under the same laws. These irregularities - I will use the word irregularity, because I could probably find something worse, but let it stay with the irregularity - are obviously those heavy three-and-a-half billion tolars funded by those to whom the energy, Ljubljana's energy, charges services each month that are sent to them by an account that is certainly foreshadowed. The services are certainly too expensive, for otherwise we could not play with three and a half billion just like that. It's with things that aren't actually the subject of this company's business. If that were not the case, if these accounts were not too large - of course for a certain period of time - then we would not be able to go into such things, but obviously they went. Money was more than enough. Somebody paid for it. That's what they say, just the ones who get a ticket every month. With these surpluses - which are covered by some, I don't know, 100, 200, 300 thousand people - have taken advantage of some individuals, a few chosen individuals who, of course, were able to sell shares even after 3,700 tolars, which is far above the nominal, actual value of this Energy. But apparently someone bought them and paid for them. But we know who paid for it. Those who pay the bills were paid. These people traded internal information, which, of course, they also made themselves. They knew what they were going to do. That's why they reacted. But some other shareholders were not fortunate enough to receive this internal information. But this isn't the end of this story. The caravan's moving on. The contract signed at the end of February between Energetics and A Bank proves that in fact this story was not entirely accidental and that it was not a mistake just because someone was not careful enough, but that someone obviously had a well-designed plan that would lead to the end. This contract proves that banks that might want to buy a SIB bank are not in an equal position. But the bank is obviously more privileged, it is in a privileged position, because it already has all the information and knows exactly that with this money converted by Energy, it will be able to operate for five years - at least that's what the contract says - and it can also offer a higher price, which is inappropriate and has adverse consequences on other banks. This is said: How, then, are we a rule of law if someone has some additional benefits for the same matter? I would also say that we have had a similar case for this SIB bank - in Slovenia already in the past, namely Triglav Bank. But there was no concern there that the state of the committee would somehow pay. Those who invested there to get their money back. In that case, Prime Minister Rob also did not state that, if it were to be shown that it was a crime, the government would still take the position that the treaty should be repealed. This was stated by the Prime Minister in the case of SIB bank a good month ago. Even in the case of Triglav, the government would find motive, resources and tools to rescue the commissioners, and it would do the dark to them. He's at the SIB bank. Apparently, there is a circle of some privileged people, who are also being helped by the government in such or other forms. This also proves that we have different approaches for different cases, for different committees, for different people. It's probably a long way from the rule of law. There are always some who are more valuable. Always the same. On the other hand, there are always some who are less valuable. That's what the government seems to be thinking. For one thing, do more for the other. Everything that has happened in this case of these actors - I will say - the SIB bank indicates that everything is in the hands of the same people. That's essentially in the hands of a ruling coalition. Even those opposed to obtaining additional information in the event of the purchase of this bank were, of course, against. The fact is that the ruling coalition, here mostly LDS and the United List, had scissors and canvas. Both parties had their own people, both deputy director of administration and supervisors. These overseers evidently supervised so well that they did not allow the information to slip away at least at the appropriate time when there was something else that could be saved so that they could not escape. Therefore, we should not be surprised that they were opposed to getting the city’s world to know additional information. For such SIBs, conditions and conditions must be laid down for such cases to occur. If there's no such condition, it can't happen. This is only possible in cases - sometimes we very much like to use this term, which is slightly south of Kolpa, which says 'kadia judges and kadia sues'. That says you're the supervisor, the prosecutor, the manager. All in the same person. Only in this case is it possible. If, in the supervisory boards, companies owned by the majority state - for example, in the case of SIB, the opposition of at least one, at least one representative, would probably somehow come to this information on a day. Because someone would probably say, "Yes, boys, we can't break it like that." With the taxpayer's money for three and a half billion, we really shouldn't do that. There are more cases like this. Just by the way. Probably billions of prizes in Elan, and strange conditions for selling electricity. This would probably not have happened if the responsibility for control had been distributed normally, as was the division of Slovenian political space. It is not about interfering with policies in the economy, it is about controlling those institutions of which the state owns. The SIB of the bank would probably not be, or would be very difficult if it had somehow balanced media space in Slovenia. The fact is that this group wanted to hide information and that it was doing great in a balanced media space such as Slovenia. The SIB bank points to an obvious example of clan labour within the ruling coalition, which is held forever, which also claims that it is likely to continue forever or for at least a long time. Such billions of consequences are being paid by those citizens who obviously are not forever. This is also the case in the case of the SIB case. To conclude, if ever, then just in the case of the SIB, no one can tell the opposition that we are smart now, after the battle, when the matter is closed. We've warned about this a long time ago -- it's said -- before it even started. So, even before this bank was even sold, 3.5 billion of the money of the Ljubljana Energy Commissions, who pay their bills too much every month, has been messed up. We've been alerted in time. We therefore rightly expect the matter to be resolved and resolved within the meaning of the rule of law. If that happens, I will probably cancel what I said at the outset, saying that Slovenia is not yet a democratic and legal country. I'd love to. Of course, I expect that we will also adopt the relevant conclusions. Well, not just us. That even the authorities that should have done something would have done what was necessary not to find out, in the absence of the information that would come on the day, how this information would have been leaked on the day rather than looking for the reasons why it had happened, and that they would have found those who were the main players in such dirty transactions. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Comrade Petan. Comrade Jakič, you have the floor behind you, Comrade Štemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u48	Mr President, respectable colleagues and distinguished colleagues! In fact, it is very difficult to deal with this problem. Well, let me start with that. Today we have a agenda item on the responsibility of state institutions and public function holders in the supervision and sale of the Slovenian Investment Bank. In view of the fact that I support the complementary draft decisions drawn up by the Finance Committee, I believe that this item on the agenda or the title of the agenda item has nothing to do with the proposal for conclusions itself. The responsibility of state institutions and public function holders in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will be discussed as soon as the State Prosecutor's Office, the Court of Auditors, the Bank of Slovenia, the Securities Market Agency and the Slovenian Audit Institute send their reports. Today we are guessing - but I agree, of course, that there are certain facts on the table, but in fact we do not have a basis for - I will say this - in some way the pogroms that are happening over people who have not yet gone through the procedure so that evidence can be gathered that they can be put before law enforcement authorities. Once again, I say that all those who have committed any kind of error against the law in the case of the SIB must answer in some way. Today, the proponents - I must say, personally myself, I think that Mr Janša's opening performance has been corrected, corrected in the sense that he followed the documentation. However, it seems to me that blurring the facts with some historical view of the establishment of the SIB does not matter with the debate that we now have. Just as it would be wrong to challenge in some way the fact that Ljubljanans and Ljubljanans were harmed by saying that the story around surpluses and in some way the fraud of citizens and citizens of Ljubljana began with regard to the overpayment of energy in the truth in 1993, when - I apologize, but in spite of everything - the city authority led Demos and then very "set" the heating prices it had set and also confirmed by the Government of Demos on the proposal of Energy, which was confirmed by the City Council. Of course, that's ten years. My colleague Janša began - no - more than ten years ago - I am talking about history. Of course, the question is why we haven't changed that. Do you imagine that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would go into reception or an amendment to a law that does not allow the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to intervene in raising or lowering prices? This would, of course, be an interference with local self-government and the opposition would be highly justified against such an intervention. Another fact that bothers me and is never said here is that this authority, which you are criticising, is the LDS and the United List at the city level, an insight into the business of the holding company, which by the way was the main financial institution, also to finance the opposition, that it was not until 2000. And you're telling us what happened in 1993. In 2000, LDS and the United List at the city level received an overview of what is happening and what is happening in all its companies. Look, when the bank -- and now, if I'm going to the period -- when the bank was being set up, it was a special time. A particular time when most banks were sold or transferred to foreign property and were inadvertently needed, or the desire for one of these banks to remain in urban ownership and, of course, the city and city to benefit from it. The previous legal review, the Bank's audit reports for 2000 and the provision of the Bank's management at the time of the success have reinforced the decision to purchase it. I still think the idea of buying a SIB bank was a good one. The idea of the city of Ljubljana getting a financial institution operating financial transactions for the city of Ljubljana was good. On the basis of all these reports - by the way, we discussed various audit reports earlier - KPMG’s audit house, following a review of the bank, found that everything was BP, as they say. Then, of course, it turned out that this same audit house, after ordering a holding audit, found that the purchase of a SIB bank was reckless or uneconomic. Now I ask you: How would any of you feel if you received information from all of you, let's say, from all the audit, financial oversight institutions and individuals, how would you feel if they told you later that you had made a mistake? I want to say that the problem is in this - and here I agreed with Dr. Bayuk at the last meeting - on the issue of trust in institutions. Did the institutions operate to this extent that the policy could, on the basis of some opinions, decide whether or not to do so? I submit that the decision was based on a positive assessment of all the involved I am talking about audit houses, on this legal review. Look, of course, then the question is whether the right time policy has reacted to Ljubljana. I think when the problem was discovered, he was detected and reacted in a manner. I think, if anyone, it is in the interest of the LDS to clear up the matter or to clarify the circumstances of the purchase and operation of the SIB of the bank, but at the same time to enable a cost-effective resolution of the situation in which the SIB is located. Today, though, we work or do the opposite these days. This is the last time Mr Podobnik has pointed out this and today again. With all these discussions, we are lowering the price of the bank. This bank is supposed to be sold at the beginning of May. Until then, we have quite a few discussions and it will be clear - and I suppose - that the price of this bank will be lower. The water will go to the mill to you, who will say, of course, because it was a fool. Mr. Rupar, if you don't believe me, I'll be very happy. Because if the bank is sold better, then your theory will fall. Your theory may fall. I apologize, Mr. President, if you could. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u49	I'm asking for peace in the hall! You have one word. This applies to all speakers. Please, buddy Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u50	See if the purchase of a SIB bank was justified or not, would we really know or will we really know 8 or 9 May when the SIB bank will be sold. It therefore seems incorrect to me that we have a discussion in the National Assembly, which is in some way already an investigative commission based on some data, but which is not recorded in the reports of the competent authorities, which we are only now calling for these documents to be submitted. On the basis of this data, data on sales and data to be provided by the State Prosecutor's Office, the Court of Auditors, the Bank of Slovenia, the Agency for the Market in Securities, the Slovenian Institute for Audit, we will be able to discuss the responsibility of state institutions and public function holders in the supervision and sale of the Slovenian Investment Bank. Before that, however, this discussion may be desirable in some way, but of course politically incorrect in terms of not having a basis for this kind of discussion. Secondly, we are damaging the sale of one of the Slovenian banks, in this case the Slovenian Investment Bank. The President, of course, I will be very pleased to support the proposal for conclusions, which are also presented by the Finance Committee. Last but not least, because I was also a member of the LDS Ljubljana City Committee among those, together - you probably won't like this - with former Mayor Viktorija Potočnik, who we wanted and recorded all the conclusions adopted by the Ljubljana City Council 20.2. These conclusions are 14. They're really talking about exactly what we're talking about today. That the City Council of the Municipality of Ljubljana should propose to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia to carry out an extraordinary audit of the operation of the Slovenian Investment Bank, the public energy company and Holdinga. That the municipality of Ljubljana requires a supervisory report from Banka Slovenije on the operation of the Slovenian Investment Bank. The City Council has gone so far as to require the Securities Market Agency and other competent institutions to carry out all necessary procedures to cancel the purchase of bank shares in the event of an irregularity. Finally, let me warn you again - dear colleagues and colleagues - we wanted the range of the city municipality. In this respect, a special investigative commission should be set up to be led by the opposition and the opposition should also have a majority in this investigative commission. Unfortunately, I must find out that the opposition is 7.3. But of course we have taken the decision as I said - 20 or 21.2. - sent a letter to the statutory or human resources commission we have in the city council [[Quote]] . The SDS Council Club says: "The commission led by the opposition cannot be effective in any way if, on the other hand, the opposition continues to be deprived of all supervisory functions in the supervisory authorities of Holding Ljubljana and its subsidiaries. Since the ruling majority coalition has so far refused to do so, we will not participate in such a committee until such time as the opposition is provided with the exercise of that control." [[The end of the quote.]] I think that's incorrect. At the last meeting, I said politically unsanitaryly that he was blackmailing a commission to investigate. It is in everyone's interest to explore what was happening with the purchase of the SIB bank, to connect, that we will not participate in this committee unless you appoint our members to the Supervisory Board of Holding. I find that inappropriate to connect. The legitimate right of the opposition is to demand places in the supervisory councils. But in this context, it seems unhygienic to me to connect it. I therefore regret in some way that the policy on the resolution of this SIB bank is being pursued in this way. As I have said before, I will be happy to support the conclusions proposed by the proposer or supplemented by the Finance Committee. I want to see the reports as soon as possible, and on the basis of these reports, then hand them over to the law enforcement authorities and to the authorities that need to carry out their functions, to investigate the matter and to stop speculating politically about the matter. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u51	In his discussion, Mr Jakič also referred to a discussion by his colleague Janša and colleague Podobnik. They both wanted a replica in accordance with Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure. My friend Janša, first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u52	Very quick friend Jakic, because he obviously didn't listen before we spoke. First time! There was never any money left Holding to finance the opposition except perhaps when the LDS was the opposition, which was not long. But where did the money go now that you're in power is clear. I don't think we need to do it again. Second, investigative committee. My friend Jakič here is making a fuss about someone because he didn't want to step on the banana shell you set up. This investigative commission you proposed was an investigative committee by name only. It has no jurisdiction of investigative commissions such as that of such a commission at national level. In the same composition in the Supervisory Council, this Commission would not have received any information because you still have supervisory councils that have decided that they do not want to be aware of the circumstances of the purchase. How would such supervisory councils then provide information if they voted that they did not want to know them? That's funny what you're saying. Why don't you suggest or don't you do what you can? For example, replace the state's attorney, the Attorney General, who lost two charges and did nothing for a year. Why don't you propose to the commission of inquiry and do what the institutions have to do to make it work? As far as price cuts are concerned. Mr Jakič's bids for the purchase of SIB bank go up to 400 tolars per share. These offers were made before we had this meeting. They're offering nine times the stock price, and your colleagues, when they voted for it, paid it. The price is reduced so that it cannot be lower. Now you're telling us we're lowering that price. That's ridiculous. Mr Sénica - when he suggested buying - wrote at the end of his proposal: "It is not good to talk about this because it would cost less." The Energy Supervisory Board, which did not want to become aware of the terms of the purchase, wrote in the conclusion: "It is not good to get to know this because it would lower the price." Now you're repeating the same phrase. It is not possible to lower the price of something because the price is virtually gone. So that's really funny, what you're saying. That was the idea of buying a SIB bank good, that's funny squared! Because the SIB bought itself without a careful legal review and without a careful financial review. How can you say it was a good idea if this idea wasn't even checked? You have already heard that someone in the world would buy a bank without careful legal review and without careful financial review or without [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] That's not the case. [[...]] This is where it happened because it was an agreed political economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u53	Thank you very much! Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u54	Thank you, President. In accordance with the business provision on the replica, I would like to replicate the respectable colleague Jakić. In fact, his statement would have been corrected. When he mentioned to me that I had already mentioned, in my debate, that, as a rule, when banks are discussed in the National Assembly, if even a bank is being sold to lower its price, and this was suggested by my colleague Jakič as an argument against the debate in the National Assembly by me, of course, it was a total misunderstanding of my performance. The fact that the Slovenian Investment Bank’s affair came to the National Assembly is the responsibility of those who cooked it, not me who sit here. That was my point! Secondly, it is very unusual because we know that in these days, hooks are changing at the SIB, except for the supervisory institution. A modern owner in such a situation never sells a bank. That's another time! The third time a bank wants to enter the bank with state ownership, it's a strange decision. That is why we have also proposed a proposal for a conclusion that, in line with the first decision, when we impose on supervisory institutions to look at all these procedures, then - colleague Jakič says that on 9-8 May already it will be clear who will buy this bank again. I sincerely hope that it will not be clear that no one will buy it and wait. This is also a proposal for our decision. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u55	Dr. Bayuk, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, Jakič, is already in the previous session, and today he has reiterated that he agrees with me that this is the credibility of our institutions. Of course, it is the credibility of the institutions and also the credibility of the government. When the Slovenian government presents Slovenia, not only to the professional public, but also to the general public, its strategy for the development of the economy of Slovenia and there clearly states that it will advocate a framework in which every decision should be in line with this strategy, and includes in this framework the real restructuring of the financial system and the privatisation of Slovenian banks - that then your concept, which you have repeated today: "and I am happy to say, the idea was good." Dear colleague Jakič, the idea was very bad, and not only in my opinion, in the opinion of your own government, which drew a completely different framework than you did. Therefore, today it is again noted that there is a big gap between what the ruling waiter is saying and what he is actually doing. You also said that the discussion was incorrect. The only thing that's incorrect is that there's a deal like the one that was traded with this bank that broke the Public Finance Act. Dear Member, this Treaty has violated the Public Finance Act because the Council of the Municipality of Ljubljana has not given its consent as it should under the Public Finance Act. You are saying that it is unhygienic to link cooperation in a research commission with the view that the opposition should also have the right to propose experts outside the same very closed circle in Slovenia who have access to these responsibilities. That's exactly what a lack of hygiene is! The most unhygienic is what we have heard here today, that one and the same person has five functions in this particular area and that there are always the same names. That's unhygienic! So, the gap between words and actions. According to your firm conviction, which you have expressed here again today, that this was a good idea, honourable Member - this is a very bad idea! Even worse, it was carried out! It's correct for us to stand up for these things. It is unhygienic, however, that we still insist that control in this country is in the hands of only rounded companies, namely members of your great coalition. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u57	I would like to offer my sincere apologies to the National Assembly. I gave you my word for the replica, despite the fact that the time of the delegation you announced has already passed. The Business Commission has made it clear that this is not considered to be impossible to explain this by passing time. Otherwise, I didn't interrupt. Please, however, that my conduct is not understood as a precedent. So, I apologize to the National Assembly for that. My friend Stemberger's not here. My colleague Sok can't get a word on this, because the time of the Group of Members is up. So please take the word of a colleague Kangler - who isn't. Comrade Kelemin, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! Since much has already been said about today's issue of SIB, it might be possible to shorten its debate a little and highlight some of the things we have seen here today. I would like to try to make my contribution so that some things can also be improved and improved. First of all, I would like to welcome the great optimism of my fellow Members who say that this meeting is necessary today because the institutions empowered in this country to carry out their duties have not done so, as is necessary. That is why this meeting is necessary. Of course, because of their belief in the Constitution, they believe in legislation, in a just legal order, they believe in democracy. Despite all the problems and hardships they face, they even believe that someday this will happen. My assessment, however, is that this is - as I have said many times - in this case, the SIB bank is actually a purely designed political structure. Actually, that's all it's about. All the indications, all the information we have already received at the meetings of the committees, committees and so on, including those from the institutions responsible should have taken the right positions, the right measures, have confirmed these assumptions. For example, only if I remember two years ago, when the Bajuk government replaced certain control councils, what "romp pom pom" you ran with the media and with all that certain control councils were changing. But not everyone, just some. No, when the new government comes, I think it would be necessary to replace the state administration and anyone else, not just the supervisory council. Because it is insufferable that one option, which is so long in power, dominates completely everything and intimidates itself. Not only does he take advantage of you, he even intimidates things. I remember well when these supervisory councils were changing. Whether he was a comment in the paper or a statement by a major political representative. Regarding capital flows, it was said: "In fact, nothing will happen with regard to financial capital flows, maybe they will only slow down a little bit, but otherwise they will go their separate ways." It is said that you were firmly convinced that in the short term, when the Bajuk government was in power, it is not possible to establish a system and order that would actually be appropriate for our democracy and the rule of law or for European rule of law and European democracy. That is why, what Mr Booth said recently on a statement about the management of certain areas. I totally believe him! He himself acknowledged that they controlled the agricultural field and also said that liberal democracy controlled finance, the economy and so on. That's actually true. All indications and statements by individual institutions are then displayed today. Had there not been an exchange of power in Ljubljana, there would obviously not have been the width of the SIB bank's affair as it has now certainly been. Look, not just that! Even the High Representative of the Bank of Slovenia, for example, when I, as a Member, assessed and certainly in six years or even more in my parliamentary mandate, had the opportunity to learn at least to some extent, and to taste this power, I assessed it politically, that it was a political connection to the whole system - he strongly denied it. I wonder who put these people on all these institutions. Who? All this translation that you are doing today - in fact also Mr Jakič, regarding the fact that they believed some of the institutions that have given such and other information is purely misleading the national assembly, the public and so on. For you know well who put these institutions, who put these people there. You know exactly how these institutions work, what statements they make, what information they give. Are you not going to make negative statements to yourself, or are you going to expect such institutions to make statements that will have any negative impact on your performance? And you put it all on your own. It's all in your hands! All this conjecture - I don't think it serves anything and it doesn't lead to these things being resolved, because now you're trying to bring all things back completely into other waters, only to this very essence, so to say an effective solution to this issue. This does not mean that we will now, or that you will invent warm water, relax our responsibilities, delay our procedures, deceive the public in various ways, ask for some reports from this institution, we know which, and hunt for the tail itself, maybe change legislation for one or two years. Things will go on as they have been. In short, we can finally figure out maybe - I hope it's not that - but that the mountain was shaking and the mouse was born. In short, I think it would be necessary to take immediate effective action. As has already been said, thefts by banks and businesses are rewarded with high rewards. Let's just look at Elan and back. If we look there and so on. Billions of sums, millions of sums were paid to individuals. Of course, you're putting the chicken thieves behind bars. The judiciary itself notes I have already shown this article where representatives of criminal services and various institutions find that economic crime in this country cannot be plagued - this is what I said - and that it is harder to get to the underground of economic crime than to the drug dealers' association. That's the truth! These are all facts, truth, supported by arguments. Stay away from all of this. In short, I am simply surprised at Mr Andre Bajuk, who, on the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, a hundred and thousands of times, if necessary, says the same thing until he sits down and until someone moves and moves from a dead point. I would have given up on my own a hundred times in six years because I have so much negative experience that I can no longer trust anyone. And he insists on it. His thanks are also for making these matters as clear as they were. In short, I don't think it's a witch hunt anymore, but it's an arrest of real famous villains who, under the auspices of the rulers of the year and years, stole from themselves and their political supporters. I think that the way back - at least in this case the SIB bank - is gone. The matter needs to be resolved, investigated, and all those guilty of what happened must be properly punished. If we do this, then we will set the greatest example for all those who are still waiting for it or deserve it. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u59	Thank you very much. My friend Anderlich, the replica. Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Since I was directly mentioned, let me repeat once again to Mr Kelemini what I said when I spoke about the checks previously carried out. See, a preliminary legal review, an audit report for the year 2000 and the assurance of the bank's management at the time spoke in favour of this idea. Once again, the idea in the context - put it back - the most "casine" around it, around national interests and selling foreign banks was the climate, which indicated that it would be good to have one bank that would be in the hands of the city of Ljubljana, which would serve faster and under more favourable conditions than large banks with credits to join the remote heating system etc., etc. A careful review carried out after purchase also showed that a relatively favourable price was reached when purchasing the bank. Even after the last valuation report of March 2002, the market value of the bank is expected to be well above the book value and purchase value. The SIB was also under the control of the Bank of Slovenia, which apparently revealed nothing particularly dramatic until last December. This is what I'm talking about. In these circumstances, there has been a decision to do this. All the stories that you are talking about today, which are legitimate, legal and specific, should be investigated by the competent authorities. That is why I am saying that today's agenda item is wrong. Because we are talking about responsibility, but we have not yet received the basis for revealing this responsibility. That is why I protest in this way that we are, in fact, going after what you, Mr Kelemina, have said, the witch hunt. Because we chandelier people just like that without having a basis for it. Of course, I can speculate and say someone took advantage. I can even operate on names, but it's not a legal state. You're talking about the state of law. It is the rule of law that data be collected to trigger enforcement mechanisms and mechanisms that say that - I didn't name anyone, except Mr. Kelemina, when I see that I caused [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u61	You're the only one with a word to finish the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u62	That's why I wanted to say that this agenda item is wrong because we're not talking about responsibility. Because we don't know who's responsible yet. This responsibility, however, I hope, will be presented by the Prosecutor's Office, Banka Slovenije, Securities Market Agency etc., etc. in accordance with the decision I will support.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u63	I see that my hand was raised by my colleague Pukšič - I cannot give you the replica Roko also raised by his colleague Kelemin, who was mentioned in the discussion by his colleague Jakič. Article 70 states that a replica is not allowed unless the President considers that the references in the replica are incorrect. I don't know which information or indication you think is incorrect. Please explain this immediately in the replica to the replica - immediately, colleague Kelemina please! What statement by his colleague Jakič was not correct? Only in this case can I give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u64	I'll explain, of course, don't worry! If you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u65	Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u66	Look! In the Slovenian transition, whatever was already lost to hundreds of billions of dollars, maybe thousands of billions of money, and almost no one has been punished for it or I don't know if it was anyone. Almost nobody. The fact that no one has been punished in such a, in the hundreds of billions of places, is it the rule of law?Oh, my God! Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u67	What statement was not correct, Comrade Kelemin?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u68	Mr. Jakič claims that we are defending the rule of law and that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u69	This is a controversy, it did not explain that any of the indications were incorrect. Please, Comrade Kelemina!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u70	The fact is, in fact, if the rule of law is that no one is punished, then I don't know the rule of law system.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u71	Before I give the floor to my colleague Anderlich, my colleague Janša, as his proposer, asked that, in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 66, he reach out to the debate. Please! By taking your time away from the time you finally have at your disposal. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u72	Well, on behalf of the proponents, I would like to explain that, although the Bank of Slovenia had previously known these things, immediately after the purchase of these shares and the acquisition of the majority share by Ljubljana Energy has issued a decision on recapitalisation and has taken some other measures to point out the unhealthy situation in this bank, that the bank is in danger of bankruptcy. [[by Home]] So if things were as good as you say they would be, then they wouldn't be, Mr. Jakič. In addition, you bought a bank that had already lost 500 million in 1997. You say here it was a good idea. What you read was said by the former Ljubljana Mayor Mrs Potočnik in an interview with Jana. We had to protect the national interest, so we decided to buy the bank. Okay, let's just say it's holding up to that point. But why is that necessary? In order to protect the national interest - to spend 3.5 billion money that has been raised by Ljubljana heating payers for new investments in order to overpay a share in a bank that is almost bankrupt would buy a good bank, not the one that was on the verge of bankruptcy - if that was a good idea. We'd do a careful analysis first, not then. It's like going to the store, buying rotten pineapples, paying anyway. When we went home, we'd call the store and ask how much they were actually stopping.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u73	Thank you very much! My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u74	It is certainly possible to claim that this meeting or this agenda item is not ready and that the reasons for the inclusion of this item on the agenda are lacking. It's obvious that every now and then we need a point where everything that someone thinks needs to be said publicly comes to light. If we are talking about the situation at the SIB bank, then we should have a serious basis for this. The material and the proposal for conclusions are far from making it possible for all Members and those accompanying the meeting of the National Assembly to become thoroughly aware of all the circumstances in which the sale took place, to purchase and to now to sell. The Liberal Democracy Group is first interested in clarifying all the circumstances relating to this bank. Therefore, for the last time, we supported the debate on the answer to the question raised by Dr Bayuk. But we wonder what such a debate can bring? Today it was more than obvious that, apart from the desire to complain in general, it was not possible to identify the culprits without finding the appropriate justification for this, but another could not be seen from what we had heard. I reject all the claims made here that this meeting was necessary and necessary because state institutions are not functioning. There is now a group of Members to warn that this will prove to be the case and resolve the problems that arise in this regard. No one can, instead of institutions called by law to supervise traffic control banks on the market that ensure that all operations are in accordance with the law. The National Assembly can't replace them. I believe that today it is only necessary to talk about some of the business periods of this bank. Nothing is said about the fact that this bank was active when it was in the power of Demos, that it was operating at the time of the 2000s, the government of the Bajuk government. No one is talking about that when it was probably lost in 1997 - as mentioned in this discussion - that the Governor of Banka Slovenije was someone who was running on a party's list with the support of a party for the president of the country. He was ten years old. That he had all the instruments in his hand. That he even participated in the deluge of a bank, which today appears to have paid off all the claims that were - even something remained of the bankruptcy mass. That's not what we're talking about. I understand this way and it's the right way. That's why we're interested in clearing things up. We expect that all the authorities will report and, above all, that the discussion will return to where it belongs, so to the city - where these things have happened - to the city world. However, I will strongly oppose the involvement of the National Assembly in the capital market in order to instruct Banka Slovenije about what it can and should not do. Because the National Assembly is not called upon to do so, nor is it obliged to impose something on others that it should not. I also wonder - knowing some legislation - whether it is possible for some of the tasks to be carried out in the thirties that have been ordered here. Of course, we ask, say, the Public Prosecutor's Office. But those who know how they are going must do the preparatory work and all the rest of the work. It's okay if you give Mr. Bayuk three and a half minutes, I'll be done. I didn't mean to break the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u75	Comrade Anderlich, I apologized to the National Assembly for giving him my word. No, no, let me explain again if that's necessary. I also apologized for not referring to such conduct. That's exactly what I said. As you can see, on the screen, the time that parliamentary groups have is spinning. When my colleague Bajuk asked for a word, I did not see the time of the New Slovenia Group. Then I didn't want to take his word. That's right. My friend Bernik cannot get the word because the time of the New Slovenia Group has passed. Franci Rokavec has a word now. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The SIB's affair is a fine example of what happens if the opposition is not released into the supervisory function of the institutions. A nice reminder of what happens if the ruling majority does not allow control in all segments, in all areas. Indeed, all the chronology of events - as we have already heard today - points in this direction, and this is not just the case of the SIB bank. But if we look at any institutions and cases that have happened before and that are still going to happen, it's probably the same conclusion. It is necessary to allow for transparent division of power and control over those public functions, whether at local level or at national level. Today it has been found several times. A serious question is raised that certain institutions, state institutions, in this case have not done their work or have even performed their functions on a partial basis or failed to perform their functions. I think that's a very serious question as well. In fact, today it has been repeatedly said how it is possible that, for example, the Bank of Slovenia has agreed to take over Ljubljana's Energy at the purchase of 80% of the SIB bank in a way that clearly violated legislation, the law on local self-government, probably also the rules of the city of Ljubljana regarding the city statute. In fact, legislation and the highest city authority were consciously covered. In this case, I also wonder - but I will not go to this level, because this is a separate level, a local self-government. It is also probably the profession of councillors to refuse to obtain information about the purchase of Energy as their own ownership company, in which it has an explicit ownership of the city of Ljubljana, to obtain information on how this purchase took place. I am therefore convinced that it is still fitting for the Minister of Finance to intervene in today's debate. Why? It has also sought to try to regulate the country and, above all, to control it in increasing the prices of public enterprise services, both at national and local level, to have clear and transparent transparency by the State as well. In fact, it is obvious that in this case - it is known that for about a quarter, the heating price increased at the end of 2001 in Ljubljana and that this was probably also one of those main instruments as to how this purchase occurred. Because he was in the interest of a certain group of people who had power and decision in this business. I think that today this debate on how to properly regulate the price of public services and the role of the State is still quite appropriate. Here, in fact, I would also call on the Minister of Finance to comment on this business that has taken place, on how the State will in such cases protect clear play and, on the other hand, taxation, in this case by taxpayers, or in similar cases, in a way that obtains certain money for other purposes, for the purposes of a particular group which has the power that it can control. The next question already raised today. On 8 or 9 May, the purchase of a SIB bank was to take place. I wonder why it's such a speed. Why the rush? In this case, it is also important that things first be examined transparently, in order to identify the causes and also the culprits for this truly obvious affair, the aim of which was to benefit a particular group of individuals. If in this case we will also be as a national assembly - and in this case as a national assembly - just say this is a matter of the city, it is not a matter of state, then we will obviously try to help the present elite also in the city, in Ljubljana, to sweep the matter under the carpet. Even in view of the very dimension of this affair, I expect that this will not be the case if this proposal, which we have proposed in the parliamentary group, is rejected today. In fact, in the case that the Bank of Slovenia in the course of the sale of the Slovenian Investment Bank does not issue an agreement on the transfer of ownership of shares of the Slovenian Investment Bank until the completion of all supervisory transactions over its operations. Today, several times in the debate, it has been said that supervisory institutions, state supervisory institutions, have not done their job. It is therefore in the meantime that before this legal deal takes place, they also do their work, report to the national assembly, and make a transparent sale. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u77	Thank you very much! Comrade Tank, please have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u78	Thank you very much! Well, after these hours of discussion and after Mr Anderlich's debate, I think it is time for some things to happen again. The SIB Bank was a government project, as it was set up by the Shinigog government to carry out precisely certain tasks. The Republic of Slovenia had a significant share in it all the time and was directly involved in all developments in its business through the management and management bodies of the Bank. Nothing, no important decision could or should have happened past the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should, if it is not and should be active as the responsible and largest individual owner, decide on all the actions of the administration and the supervisory board of the bank. At least in the last five years, it has been clear to all government teams and their teams that the bank is neither successful nor in accordance with financial regulations. We are then warned or quoted by Banka Slovenije documents requiring appropriate corrective measures from the Slovenian Investment Bank. The SIB did not react, nor did it rule as the most important owner. The government even allowed the bank to continue its practice of extremely risky and dangerous business. The Bank of Slovenia, however, was not consistent in the implementation of the measures required. Drnovskov and Rop's team and their financial ministers bear full responsibility for the collapse of this project, as they have not shown any total commitment and will to establish the legal and safe operation of the bank or to secure public property in it. In view of the fact that the bank was dealing with risky investments that it had poorly secured, there were also logical consequences. Many write-offs of large sums of money are very likely for selected individuals. As we can see from the documentation, the warnings and requests of the Bank of Slovenia for safer business are not overdue. The Bank of Slovenia did not act. In spite of the pace, SIB’s business was risky and overlayed private publishing amounts. There were no returns. In a few years, the bank has written off about 4 and a half billion tolars of funds. The passiveness of the government and Banka Slovenije either leads us to believe that it was a systematic and probably agreed attack on public finances and the flow of public money into private accounts. All key political actors, who should, by their official duty, ensure the proper and legal functioning of the bank and its institutions, which should ensure the safety of citizens and their common assets, have not done their job. The project was also completely cancelled. Because of such illegality and non-compliance with the rules, it is quite humiliating to point a finger at Shinigo's government, which has set up this bank. I agree that this move wasn't the happiest for those days. However, this government is not responsible for illegal and harmful practices that occurred many years later. All of Drnovskov's governments have done nothing to correct Shinigog's government's mistake. The robbery, however, is working hard to minimize illegal practices and to clean up the effects under the carpet as soon as possible rather than acting responsibly. There's something else that's obvious. All those who failed to perform their duties well and who allowed such transition stories were well rewarded. Dr. Drnovšek became the president of the country at the will of the people, Mag. Rob's prime minister, mag. The Gaspari governor and we could still list it. However, operators or contractors of the contested tasks are constantly engaged in various management services and in supervisory boards. The events in October 2001, when Energy purchased the majority package of the Slovenian Investment Bank, show that it was the complete absence of supervisory institutions at the national and local level. This was a clear violation of the laws governing the functioning of local authorities and public enterprises. It was a violation of key financial laws, all of which in silent silence or with the government's silent consent. The government is also responsible for overseeing the financial and other operations of local authorities which have powers of action but have not acted. Not as a supervisor of the local authorities, nor as a co-owner of the bank. It appears that laws are only adopted for the Velika Polana and other small municipalities, and the Ljubljana Municipality is an untouchable system. Even today, when the government's involvement in developments is clear, it certainly does not want to be competent. At the same time, Banka Slovenije went into hiding. The Court of Auditors is not from anywhere, nor is it a criminal service, nor is it a law enforcement agency. Neither the judicial branch of authority nor the type of other institutions and offices that usually have much to say. It all shows that the latter are more focused on various round Masses and commenting and amortisation of echoes in the public than on the exercise of serious control. All of us who have met with public funds management in our work so far know very well what legal functioning and governance in the public sector looks like. The decision-making process is quite clear: the role of the authorities is clearly defined. In the case of SIB, everything has happened beyond the prescribed procedures when the law is not complied with. This is only possible if such procedures are actively supported by a political majority at local and national level. In this case, it is the same political majority in both cases - it is said - for the United List and the Liberal Democracy. All decisions were taken in the case of SIB in very closed and politically and familyally connected circles. It is clear that this lack of transparency is the greatest threat to public finances. A special pattern of conduct has also been established, since those who have been given a mandate to manage public funds, to act economically and to take decisions take the decision that they do not even want to know about illegal conduct. This pattern of behaviour is similar to that which is exactly characteristic of a population of one neighbouring country - I think it is called Omerta - to be around, but nothing to see and hear. At least three grave money-related violations took place. First, lending money without quality insurance, which resulted in up to 4.5 billion dollars of write-offs. It was followed by an illegal purchase of energy with public funds of 3.5 billion citizens. Each citizen of Ljubljana contributed several tens of thousands of tolars, with which Energetics bought out a busy package of shares. They all deserved, except for the government - it will sell its shares for a tenth of the price that Klemenčič was worth. The sale of SIBs will now be followed by a loss of approximately 3.5 billion tolars. This is therefore a series of bad and harmful actions by responsible persons, which will eventually re-analyse about 10 to 12 billion tolls of public money into private accounts. In short, it's a very large asset. This is about a quarter of the funds that should be saved this year through the state budget's rebalancing. The conclusion of the story is clear and often visible and heard. First two, three board changes, control boards. Following the formation of one or two commissions, an extremely fast sales procedure, usually for foreigners. This usually excludes all grounds for determining the responsibility of the persons involved. In short, everyone stays innocent. Only their bank accounts are much more difficult, allowing them to come to the front of social chronicles and enjoy a good vacation. Despite the warnings of the caravan, it travels smoothly. Nothing happens. However, I hope that this case will only lead to a reversal in the conduct of the current authorities and that actors will be properly dealt with and properly sanctioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u79	Thank you very much! Comrade Sushinik. He's giving up the debate. My friend Rupar, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Let me start by expressing my doubts that the SIB affair will be brought to an epilogue that would call to account everyone who is mentioned today and who has anything to do with the really big theft that has occurred. My introduction will be reading the work of Mrs. Romane Šlibar Pačnik in one of the newspapers, which says: "The District Attorney's Office has, according to Attorney General Zdenka Cerar in February 2003 to the Office of the Criminal Police of the Ljubljana Police, directed the police administration to continue the proceedings against individuals for suspected abuse of the position in the SIB affair." I'm mentioning a few names. Igor Pogačar, former director of Energy, who bought the bank, could be the first on the SIB's sad bench, which is unlikely. The purchase authority was given by the then Director of Holding Peter Cerar, who did so by direct order of the Cabinet of Mayors Vike Potočnik. Cerar even deposited the details of the intermediate order with the notary. In his defense he also speaks of the fact that the mandate was initialled by the head of the mayor's cabinet, otherwise a close friend of Pogačar and a fellow boatmate named Kranjska sausage, Sam Lozej. In particular, I mention these names because I will then use them in my further implementation of the speech. However, since the parish on the other hand only proves that the Law was made aware of the matter, the lack of evidence is likely to put an end to the matter. The members of the Supervisory Board, including President Andrej Toš and Metka Tekavčič, from the conclusion that they support the purchase of a bank, will not be able to prove that they supported the purchase of SIB. The former President of the SIB administration, Mr Klemenčič, is also untouchable. After all, its allegedly modified data was confirmed in one way or another by respected supervisors, who, of course, wrote the conclusions on the basis of available data, which later proved to be allegedly inaccurate. His wife, Nada Klemenčič, is also an organizer in the SIB sales package for Energetics, and all the other sellers have nothing to worry about, because, of course, they did not violate any law. Slovenia, typical. And an epilogue. One appeal by Mrs Cerarov has already been rejected due to lack of evidence. But the fate of another is not yet known. She wasn't known at the time, and now she is. The shortest story was drawn by Vika Potočnik, who is no longer mayor and Mr Miro Senica, who lost a good client, is the Municipality of Ljubljana. And now I'm going back to the names that I somehow eluded from this contribution. Who is Igor Yuri Pogacar, former energy procurator? Supposedly, or as the only private capital provider was able to read, that is, his money in his pocket, which he wanted to buy the third block of the thermal power plant or heating plant in Ljubljana. The only one with enough money to buy a third of Ljubljana's greenhouse. How did the gentleman get that kind of money? You know him, Mr. Potts, because you're from the same party. [[A voice from behind.]] But, city log 15. Sort of. Because she's laughing at me. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u81	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u82	How can you get that kind of money? Like, you could read that with a move like that. See, Jurij Pogačnik is 100% owner of the company M Rom, which sold the house on the city square of the Ljubljana Municipality for 3 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u83	Your time is up. The time has run out for the emissary group, and I must take your word. Thank you very much, colleague Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u84	I'll continue to explain my voice. But let Slovenia be careful because I have a great story. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u85	I can't give my word to my colleague Pukšič and my colleague the Ambassador. I'm asking the proposer, do you want to intervene now? Please! Then the government will get the word, in order.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u86	I hope there will be some time left for my colleague, Janez Janš. I would like to mention the fact that, after this long debate, I am somewhat disappointed that we have recently heard the leader of the LDS delegation telling us that state institutions are working and that what they are doing cannot be replaced by a national assembly. Of course, I fully agree with this and no one has proposed that the National Assembly replace what the State institutions have to do in this case. However, no one can replace the responsibility of the National Assembly, which, for example, exercises its control over Banka Slovenije. The Bank of Slovenia is responsible to the National Assembly. That's what our constitution says, and that's what we're trying to do. I cannot agree with the concept that state institutions operate. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Where have you been? Is it true that the state institutions, when it was clearly and loudly presented here and also explained that the opposition, the SDS Council Club of the Municipality of Ljubljana, sent a letter in January 2002 to the state prosecutor and that the state prosecutor lost this letter during that period? And she asked if they sent her another copy, once again, recently. So, I ask you, is it true that Slovenian institutions are operating, or are we dealing with things that are slightly different from the statements of the LDS Group's leader? How can we say that state institutions work if, according to a report from the Securities Markets Agency - as I have already explained here - we are well aware that the law requires stock exchanges to report monthly to the Securities Market Agency also on transactions they do on an unorganized market. So the Securities Market Agency received this report. Who's it from? Yes, it should be obtained from three stock exchanges which have concluded contracts for at least, almost half of this purchase of the public energy company and the SIB bank. So when they knew that, did the institution work? What did the Securities Market Agency say in February? Yeah, you know, we have nothing to do with this, because this is supposed to be the use and abuse of internal information. This is limited to an organised market. Yes, very nice! It is true that the criminal law so provides in its Article 243. Article 244, the following article - because only the same page opens and this is read - speaks of abuse of position and rights. At that time, there is no restriction on an organised market. So, there was and is still in our legal order a legal basis for the Securities Market Agency to do something about it. But it's not. So I ask myself and you: Are the institutions of our country really working? Whether the institutions of our country are functioning when, on the basis of the data now available to the Slovenian public - we well know that the Bank of Slovenia knew things and did not take them into account in its decision on 28 November, when it gave permission for the public company Energetics to receive such a large qualified share in the SIB. Is it not clear now on the basis of this information that we have that the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia towards the SIB was not effective - this is the least we can say that it was not effective. Things kept going on and on and on and on again in 2002. The institutions of the Slovenian State have not worked in this area. That's why this meeting is important. Just to carry out our responsibility as a national assembly, namely, to control all of this, including the Bank of Slovenia. I hope that we will actually achieve something in the coming weeks - that these institutions will begin to act as the rule of law expects and requires. Rather, they will act responsibly and send to the National Assembly the information that we are going to require today. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u87	Thank you very much! My friend Janš as a proponent, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u88	So, briefly, a few more arguments or points in today's debate. Perhaps some conclusions are based on conclusions as such, including assumptions and suspicions. However, there is also an indisputable fact that we have not discovered today, but it has been said about it for a year. This is not only in the newspapers but also in the documentation of the competent institutions, which are subsequently called careful financial and legal checks after purchase. What is undeniable is that someone has spent 3.5 billion of the money that they have spent on investments in this sector in order to buy banks and that this money is spent recklessly. Today, these shares that have been purchased are worth nine times less. So the price has been completely eliminated. This is a fact that is reflected in practice. The fact is that a large part of these 3.5 billion ended up in the pockets of individuals with privileged information, as well as in private company accounts. That's all a fact. That's indisputable. That's not true. That's just proven because it's all been revealed. Well, the fact is that none of these companies or individuals by any key belong to the political opposition. It belongs to those in power who belong to those who are in power. Whatever we look at. It is also true that as soon as the affair became too big to completely sweep under the carpet, a crisis headquarters was established, which began to operate mainly in three directions. First, a commission for the sale of banks was set up. Why the commission? You bought the bank without any commission, without a careful inspection, and even without the fact that the supervisory board of the company that bought the bank would have been aware of the circumstances. As a ruling coalition in the city council, some of you voted not to be familiar with the situation. Now there's a commission to sell this bank. Of course, a commission is set up when a matter is tried to divorce. This is also where some new, seemingly unburdened names came in, but they are still materially involved, which is supposed to show up as if they were doing things differently now, even though they are not working. Then it was hired or hired by a PR agency that was supposed to somehow cover it in public. And this agency is very effective. Only yesterday, when we presented this so-called secret agreement between A Bank and Ljubljana Holding and Energy, at a press conference. Then a person sees reports and, say, on a commercial TV POP TV we see a contribution that does not show the facts that we have presented, but shows a comment about what we have presented, and the last word in this contribution is Mrs Žnidaršič Kranjc. It concludes the contribution by just how it's all okay and normal. What this PR agency is doing is doing very well if it is lobbying between journalists so well that instead of reporting that the public has carried out such a contract, it reports on how it is, it is all right. Doesn't even say anyone said anything was wrong. That's how this agency works. Apparently it's very expensive and they pay taxpayers, of course. The third direction that has been set - in such matters, the culprit must always be shown, and two have appeared. First, it turned out to be imperfect legislation, which is probably responsible for what happened. As always! Well, it's nobody's fault. At best, it's imperfect legislation. And of course, we blame those who talk about it, even before, some have said that we are lowering the price of this bank by what we are discussing here. Please. Please! In short, in the end, bad laws will be blamed, and of course it will not tell who proposed them and accept them, and we will blame those who have been warned that something is wrong with the classic formula that has also been used here. Even after today's session, we expect dilution of arguments, performances in public, where they will say: no one is guilty until proven guilty, but perhaps it was legal, the laws really need to be corrected and so on and so forth. It is likely that the Prime Minister will be in a diary today or echoes and in a few days in a special show where he will have an hour of time; questions that he will probably prepare for himself and then ask him questions and then rush things. He'll probably get into the studio at 5:00 or somebody else. As the biggest opposition party, we did not have a study at 5 p.m., where we would explain our programme or alternatives for years. And so on. All of this will happen, which has always happened so far, and the situation is no different. Here we have heard a representative of two official parliamentary groups, namely people who have power in this country; one said that today's meeting should not be at all that the title is wrong; everything is wrong. The most important thing is that we're even discussing this. The second is Mr Potrč - before I went to read the magnetogram again - from this pay phone he made almost direct threats: the Czechs, those who were appointed, will already take care of their defence. You can't just say what you want to say. Now, Mr Potts, we weren't afraid of you when you locked us up and we're not afraid of you now that you can achieve something different in public. You can get $400 worth of shares; you can achieve that no one is punished, you can cover a prosecutor who doesn't do anything for a year, you lose a criminal application and you can't change it, you can't write anything about it, just about the Director General of Police, but nothing about that kind of stuff. No one demands responsibility to offer some investigative committee for bluffing; but where action is really needed, no action is taken. You can do all of this. But to be afraid of you, you won't be able to do that. I really don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u89	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Please, buddy Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Janša, I never gave anything to any of your correctness. The fact that you're inventing the truth is well known. But I just want to explain what I think. Anyone who has been personally assaulted has the right to defend himself. That's what I said, that's not a threat, whether someone does it or not, that's his business. However, in any case, I wanted to say that this payphone does not give the right that someone may be slandered, that someone may be insulting, that someone may be accused if there is no evidence to prove it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u91	Dr. Marble, Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The Government supports the proposed decisions of the National Assembly and will also fulfil its powers within the time limit and mandate. As the Prime Minister has already said, all competent institutions are already investigating suspected crimes. In addition, amendments to criminal legislation will be short-circuited to the National Assembly and in this context the amendment of Article 243 of the Internal Information Trading Act will be followed by the new European Securities Market Abuse Directive. In addition, the Banking Act, which is already in the process of the National Assembly, is being amended; it is said that it follows these European directives in such a way that it has strengthened the conditions that the owners and the management of financial institutions must fulfil and in this regard the government also supports the pooling of supervisory institutions, which in our opinion would contribute to more effective supervision. Then I was called in on the prices of utilities. You have probably noticed that this year the government is drawing up a plan to increase these prices. For the first time, it has made one framework in line with the anti-inflation objective, so that these prices are under control for the time being. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u93	Unfortunately, only you have the floor, so it was reported from the government. This concludes with a general debate and brings me to a debate and a decision on the complementary proposal for conclusions. I would like to ask that you take into your hands the review of the amendments to the supplementary draft conclusions on the agenda item. We have quite a few decisions ahead of us. The time available to the parliamentary groups should be taken into account. Of course, everyone has the right to explain his or her vote at a certain time before deciding. First of all, we have two amendments to the first proposal, two additional amendments, one submitted to the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party, and the other to the Slovenian People's Party Group. Anybody want a word on that? Please, Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I'd explain the amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u95	If you have time, I won't make another mistake. Let me see. No, you're out of time. Time's up. In this way, you can explain your position in the context of the explanations of vote. Time's up. Thank you very much. Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I understood that the debate on the amendments tabled would go beyond the context of the applications. This will obviously be the case here now, but the Slovenian People's Party's Group was cautious and took a little more time. So I would like to say that we have proposed an amendment to delete in the first decision proposed by the Committee the word "possible". If you are careful, it says here that the National Assembly proposes to the State Prosecutor's Office, the Court of Auditors, the Bank of Slovenia, the Securities Market Agency and the Slovenian Audit Institute to examine possible irregularities in the sale or purchase of SIBs to the National Assembly in those days. You're getting suspicious. And we would worry that one of these institutions will be able to find out that there was no irregularity, because it says "possible", and that's all it's gonna write down to the National Assembly in 30 days. And we suggest that the word "probably" be deleted. But we do not argue this on the basis of debates between Members and Members, but on the basis of public performances by the two directors of the very important supervisory institutions, they have both been mentioned. One is the director of the paper market agency, Dr Borak, and the other is the head of the office - Boštjan Penko - to prevent corruption, and both of them have made it clear that they estimate that certain irregularities occurred in the context of the sale and purchase of SIBs. So we suggest that the word "possible" be deleted. In our view, however, the amendment proposed by Members of New Slovenia and Social Democrats is better than the basic proposal of the home labour body. And of course, if such a proposal is adopted, we will support it, and then our amendment is irrelevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u97	Does any of the other colleagues in that parliamentary group who still has time for discussion want a word? Otherwise, I will conclude the discussion on both the supplements and the proposal for a decision and we will move on to a decision so that there is an opportunity to explain the vote. Can I close the debate? Okay. Explanation of voice. First my colleague, Rupar, then my colleague, Skolcz. We will vote on the first amendment and I assume you have an explanation of vote for the first amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u98	I'll just say I'll support this amendment. Also because I see in it the goal of finally being able to reveal the story that I started earlier, the story about Mr Pogačar. But I apologize for earlier talking about the third block of the thermoelectric power plant. In fact, it's a tower in Revolution Square 3. So it is this insanely large tower where the Ljubljana Bank is and which Mr Pogačar wanted to buy. And because I know that the hope is that we would come to the disclosure of these manipulations, that we might even get to the source of the property or from where, say, this gentleman so much money that he hopes to buy such a column. I would like to see that these conclusions would lead to some, or perhaps a commission to discover, whether this same gentleman actually sold the house on the City Square 15 as owner of the company M ROM municipality Ljubljana for 3 million German Marks through the intermediate house of the Ljubljana BankLeasing, whose director was, you will not believe anyone other than Hrvoje Draskovic, the current v.d. Director of Energy Ljubljana. Look how it goes. So, Mr. Pogačnik bought this house from Elektrotechne Set for the fighters 800 thousand marks, and before he paid it, Ljubljana sold it to the municipality for 3 million marks and then settled the debt there. Well, it's really thorough, so I'll just say it's an abuse of position. And before that, if I can get to the names mentioned above. So today Mrs Klemenčič appears constantly, I do not think the name of Mr Fedor Gregorič has yet appeared - but you know this, but no, Mr Potrč. Well, Mr. Mikuža. So why am I mentioning these three? In fact, the same words appear again, the same actors. Mr Mikuž was the director, if I am not wrong about Unimarket, or Unimercat, so in Munich, whose majority owner was once again Ljubljanska banka - part of this, I do not know whether Hippo or Ljubljanska banka Leasing - which went bankrupt and in which Ljubljanska banka lost huge money and whose director again Hrvoje Draskovic. So it's all in the same bench. And, finally, Mr Mikuž wouldn't even be such a very important person if it weren't for Igor Pogačar's father-in-law. This Igor Pogačar bought a SIB bank as soon as we could hear. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Oh, and part three of the next round. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u99	Comrade Rupar, look, you know what the explanation of vote is - a justification for a vote. And, please, hold on to that. I also ask that - I see, we all take into account the fact that replicas are not possible in the explanations of vote and that colleagues who would have mentioned them cannot respond to your debate. A colleague of the school has a word behind him, a colleague of Kangler's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In a way, I regret not being able to react in a way like my colleague, Rupar. I wanted to discuss this amendment, given that it was a few more minutes. In doing so, I will use this form to say that it is difficult to define myself clearly until the amendment of the SLS colleagues, which delete the word "maybe" on the basis of the statements made by the two presidents of the agencies. I do not want the National Assembly to fall into this populist witch hunt by referring to statements rather than decisions. Both agencies should, in the event of an indisputable finding, give decisions on these infringements. I am not sure whether they gave them or not, I did not participate in these discussions alone. From this point of view, it seems to me that the justification for deleting those words is mildly problematic and can only serve to raise political points. Of course, this type of vote cannot prejudge those decisions of the investigating authorities, but I hope that, at the end of the day, the courts and these agencies, which will, I hope, clearly show what was wrong and also who is responsible for this. But I don't really want to touch on this shortcut offered by my colleagues from the People's Party, and I would like to say that when we talk about this money, let's find out where he went, say, the money from the guns.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u101	Please, Comrade Kangler, after him mag. Organisation [[These are all explanations of voice.]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. I wanted to discuss the conclusions myself, but I will now explain my voice and try to summarize the content in this way. I will personally support all the conclusions we've reached at the table today. However, I am very disappointed and surprised at some of the debates that took place today or in the past in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, why? Whenever there is an affair, either the SIB or any other affair for which the National Assembly has established an investigative commission or any other committee of the National Assembly, and has actively engaged in research into the abuse of public functions and certain other actors, not one such affair has received its judicial epilogue, not one! Tell me about one case where the debate in the National Assembly was triggered that the affair that we discussed in this house was the epilogue of justice! In this matter, which has lasted for several months or a whole year, government authorities have not done their work. That after three or four months of active action against this affair, the State authorities have not carried out those activities because they fear their own shadow when any political party is involved in such or other affair. And if these conclusions are to help and defend them, I will be very happy that they will be able to do their job. However, once again, when any political officials are actively involved, these gentlemen are afraid of their own shadows and do not come to the bottom of the matter because they are afraid of rematching and could still be listed. That's why I'm going to support all the conclusions if they help them.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizjak, behind him is a colleague of Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Of course, now we probably have an explanation of the vote to the amendment to the first decision. I will support this amendment to the proposal for a first decision, because we have extended the list of institutions already established by the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee through the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, through the Ministry of the Interior and the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and other Authorities, in accordance with their competences, to examine these irregularities in the sale or purchase of SIBs and, where appropriate, also to take action. In addition, we added the Insurance Supervisory Agency, as it can be found from public information that insurance company Triglav and its plasma have also played an important role in the business, and this certainly affects the functioning of insurance company Triglav. Therefore, we are still convinced that the cooperation of this Insurance Supervisory Agency is important. A more detailed initiative is also defined to the Slovenian Institute for Auditing to supervise the audit of the accounts of the Slovenian Investment Bank for the years 2000 and 2001. In short, the amendment extends the list slightly and defines them more clearly in accordance with the objectives of the proposal for an extraordinary meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u105	Comrade Tsukati, behind you, Comrade Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Allow a brief procedural comment first. In fact, given that it is a one-phase process and it is difficult to put amendments to the amendment or impossible, I do not see any obstacle not to consider the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party as an amendment to our amendment. By the way, you're not shutting down. Here you have written in your note, if the amendment, the first amendment, which we are now talking about, is the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group under number 2 irrelevant. I don't think that's true and we could consider it an amendment to the amendment. Now, allow me to explain my vote to the amendment to the first motion of decision under number 1, and I will support it, in particular because of paragraph 2. In fact, I agree with everyone who says it's hard to talk about some big mistakes without arguments in their hands. However, our system, the control system does not give us these arguments, does not provide them. If necessary, there is great obedience and honesty and supervision of the control systems of audit houses themselves. I believe that the audit reports are the basis for judicial proceedings and also for our discussions. And if there is any suspicion that this audit report has not been properly prepared, it is really necessary to encourage the relevant institution to exercise control over the audit house. That's a suspicion. Experts are proving to us, including with documents that we cannot show here, so I would suggest that, in order to clear up matters and arguments on which others should take action, we ask the audit institute to actually exercise control over the audit society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Comrade Pukšič, here comes Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Of course, I will do the same as the predecessors: I will support the decision that is proposed. One of the reasons why I will support this decision is that this act, which has taken place around the EIB, has led to a breach of the international treaty. The International Treaty, signed on 4 February 1993 by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the German Government, discusses an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial assistance for the creation of the existence and professional inclusion of qualified workers in the Republic of Slovenia. Indeed, Article 2 of this Agreement clearly states that 10 million German Marks will be contributed by the German Government, just as much by the Slovenian Government. It further states that the interest rate will be 2%, and in the fourth indent of Article 2, that the final borrowers will be exempt from the risk of exchange rate changes. So I hope you all understand what this means. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has entrusted the Slovenian Investment Bank with the implementation of this Agreement. Article 7 of this International Agreement states that the Contracting Parties agree that all the above institutions will agree on each other's details. So, of course, the Slovenian Investment Bank entered into contracts which are contrary to the agreement concerning the duration, the use of the loan, in relation to interest, instead of 2%-6%, then in relation to the revaluation of the interest obligation and so on. Well, and that the devil had even more [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u109	Your time has run out, Comrade Pukšič, to explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u111	Not now. Comrade Sok has his word, Dr. Bajuk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. I myself will support the proposal for a first decision to be amended. Although I must say that it seems very strange to me that the National Assembly is proposing to state institutions such as the State Prosecutor's Office, then to the Court of Auditors, the Bank of Slovenia, the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Securities Market Agency, in particular the Government as executive authorities, to examine possible irregularities. So I personally believe that these institutions should actually do this in a democratic and legal state on their own, but not that the legislative branch of power has to invite them to do so and suggest that they do so. However, if these institutions, of course, consider that our legislation is inconclusive, that there are no adequate grounds for their action in the legislation, then I would expect these institutions to report this to the National Assembly, to address their demands and comments to the National Assembly. And if not already a ruling coalition, then I am convinced that the opposition would certainly like to take these suggestions into account and quickly propose amendments to the existing laws in order to make these institutions more effective in their work. Well, I'll support that. However, once again, it is very strange that in a democratic and legal country, the legislative authority must adopt such decisions in order for the relevant institutions to perform their functions, for which citizens pay them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u113	Dr. Bayuk, follow you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course I'll support this amendment. I would also like to explain, in particular, to colleagues who were present at the last meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy when we adopted these conclusions. I am sure you will recall that I have proposed that the Slovenian Institute for Audit should also be included in the original list of institutions to which the proposal referred. Of course, we did not notice in time that this second paragraph was needed because the Slovenian Institute for Audit does not have any role in the sale or purchase of the SIB of the bank itself; otherwise, it has some responsibility on the basis of the supervision of the audit reports which were the basis for this decision. So, I would just like to point out that the inclusion of the Slovenian Institute for Audits has been adopted, but it has been accepted in such a text which is uninhabited, so this second paragraph is still necessary in order to clearly decide and require from the Slovenian Institute what it can do, not what it cannot do. It has no connection, direct to report the sale and purchase of the bank itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick, explanation of vote. Behind you, Comrade Kremjar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u116	Colleagues and colleagues! My vote will go to the conclusions presented. I would like them to be even more serious and binding, but I hope this is at least the beginning. In fact, I personally do not have much hope for these reports, which agencies bound by law to oversee the work done, will come up with a particular conclusion. The only conclusion they'll probably be defending and I'll be very surprised if this doesn't happen is that they've always done the right thing and done the right thing and why I'm even asking them. Okay, so what's the big deal today? We've heard a lot of facts about pros and cons and so on. However, I have a personal opinion here that this is a debate about a company called Slovenia, a company of shares. This share company is owned almost independently by some, and some of these are two parties that dominate the government. It's a long-standing observation I've had. I have come to believe that this company is actually run like a capital company: shares go only to some, but other citizens, who are also shareholders of this company after the birth, do not get anything - except taxes, of course. This is about the exploitation of power, and this company, this company, through its daughter, at least for a long time of her life, had, of course, in the hands of a business that hasn't been visible since the beginning - sorry, I'm already a little over. But I'm going to say this, that just like this company or this daughter was established, she was doing business, and where she ended up, it shows that there was a lot of manipulation and there is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u117	Thank you very much. A fellow Kremjar, followed by a fellow Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I will not support the amendments to the first decision for a simple reason, because it seems to me that in the decision itself it was sufficiently binding and clearly stated what must be done. At this point, of course, more than telling the National Assembly who should have done something in the opinion of the National Assembly would have been superfluous. In particular, I could not vote - because I do not think that the first amendment adds anything to a different combination of the first, second and third conclusions, so it is irrelevant in my opinion. The second proposed by Comrade Podobnik is even more questionable than the first one and I would not support him or support him because he really prejudges some things that the National Assembly should not afford. It prejudges some decisions and some almost convictions, which, of course, is not possible. Maybe what's written down is, in my opinion, in these conclusions. It is possible to suggest, demand, expect all those who have to do something will also do so. But to say in advance that mistakes are almost such and such is, of course, superfluous. Therefore, I think that the conclusions, as presented, are good and that they need to be supported, I will support them myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u119	I have two more on my list, first my colleague Rokavac and finally my colleague Pječet. Then we'll go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. I will support the amendments or this amendment. In doing so, I wonder and regret that it is indeed sad that the National Assembly must at all take decisions in which the competent state authorities, who are called by law and by the Constitution to carry out their work, require that they do their work. When adopting these decisions, we really need to ask ourselves what constitutional situation this country is in, that the institutions which should report to the National Assembly on the irregularities found at this point in the Constitution should, in the matter of possible irregularities, be explicitly distanced from the irregularities themselves, because all of them, including those who have committed them, are now claiming that irregularities have been committed, most of them. That's why there's all this speculation about whether we're going to let go of the word "possible" or whether the word "possible" is left out or not. The fact is, there have been irregularities, and if the National Assembly wants to maintain at least some moral integrity on this issue, then it makes sense to accept both amendments. And I will vote for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u121	My colleague Peca, please explain your voice [[two minutes]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u122	In the National Party, we will support all those conclusions and amendments that will exacerbate the issue of responsibility. We are confident that with some kind of political avoidance of responsibility, which we are witnessing from the Liberal Democracy, we will not give Slovenia the light that will show that negative elements must not end. We are convinced that this is one of these stories at the right time, so today we are going to have to tell everyone together, at least to the politicians: "No, we will not allow these stories to happen again." I am sorry that we have been subject to a new business provision in the Slovenian National Party and the time for our debate has passed three hours ago. However, I would like to point out what the speakers have already said before me that the elements or institutions defined in the first amendment should have done things on the basis of our assessment of official duty. It is sad that the National Assembly, after all the behaviour we have of these institutions, must only call for action. This proves the degree of power, I stress, proves the degree of power of Liberal Democracy in our country. Well, I think it's extremely sad. At the same time, we would like to point out that the possible acceptance of this amendment, which, although in some normal democratic development, would be in conflict with the Constitution, but unfortunately we are not in normal democracy in Slovenia and therefore it is not disputed, will, in our opinion, lay some groundwork, because we are not at the end of the transition, namely, the basis for how society and institutions should act in future matters that will await us. I am afraid, and I can confirm with certainty this fear that this is not the last matter that this national assembly will face. Unfortunately, on the one hand, politics has been so incompetent and, on the other hand, the promotion of the Liberal Democracy has created such negative phenomena of transition. To the national side, which we will of course support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u123	Thank you. That's how we rounded up the explanation for the voice. We have two amendments, two complementary to the first proposal for a decision. Here a colleague of Cukjat asked earlier whether the proposer, this is the People's Party's Group, changed the status of its complement to tie it to the first decision or insist on doing so. Comrade Squirrel, do you insist on how it was put in? Well, then this comment remains relevant, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SLS Group is irrelevant. We will therefore vote first on the first amendment or amendment to the first draft of the decision, being tabled by two members of the Group, the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party. We're voting. There are 66, 30 for and 33 for. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 33.]] This amendment has not been adopted so that we can now decide on the amendment under order number 2 to the first proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 71, 32 for and 39 for. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted. Now we're going to make a decision. First of all, we will now decide on two complementary proposals for a second decision, which will be discussed in advance, first of all on the proposal tabled by the members of the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party, and then on the proposal led by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. I'm opening a debate. I ask whether one of the Members whose Group of Members still has time to discuss, or whether it will be possible to explain its position by explanation of vote. Then we'll move on to the decision. You have time, Comrade Petty Officer. Please, colleague Podobnik wants to explain. The debate, of course, first the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u124	Thank you, President. We expected to now vote on the first proposed decision to vote on all decisions in a row. That would seem more logical to us. But now we're at the second conclusion. I would like to say that the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, or colleague Anderlič, proposes that the word "disputed" be deleted, which is, in a sense, in the opposite sense, as our amendment was. What if I could read it? This is an amendment that discusses what the government should prepare within 30 days of the report, and point C states what the impact of this disputed purchase on the state budget has or may have. You're proposing to us colleagues in LDS that we delete the word "disputed". This amendment seems wrong or I won't support it. The fact that this purchase was controversial is the result - that is, what is the word "disputed". All of us who performed, perhaps with the exception of Comrade Jakič, and then he finally stepped in, all of us argued that this purchase was in some way controversial. This is also a political assessment, of course, because if it were not, today would not be this agenda item. I believe that here the working body - colleague Puck, when preparing this amendment - was correctly written when using the term 'debatable purchase'. So I will not support the amendment under point 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u125	Anyone else want a word? You will have this opportunity to explain your vote. [[No, no, ……]] Can I close the debate then? [[Yeah.]] Then we move on to an explanation of the voice. My friend Jelinčič asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will support the first amendment, which actually explains what the mother's working body wanted, this is the so-called Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, somehow disguised and wrapped in a cellophane from which nothing could be seen. Members of the New Slovenia Group and SDS have explained exactly what needs to be learned, and we also join this momentum. After all, I don't know what the previous government has done under Mr Drnovsk's command to come on the day of all these pigs, which, of course, the current government must try to cover in any way. After all, I think we will be discussing things here, such as, say, where 8 million German brands have disappeared, which Mr Bergauer pointed out at the Ljubljana Airport and this money is circulating on strange routes and does not return to the Slovenian budget. But this is one of the thoughts we're going to talk about again. In short, the first amendment will be supported. The second amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy, however, I think that another step is closer to learning even less. For, gentlemen of the Liberal Democracy are so far away that they are willing to even delete the word 'disputed' as if these matters were not to be disputed. It seems that the Slovenian state is coming into a strange situation from which Serbia has already gotten out or is already being dragged out. However, we are in a position where some will do whatever they are or will not be allowed to do, and will then later, by means of political acts. In short, the first amendment is "for", the second amendment is "against". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u127	My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u128	I will support the basic proposal of the Second Decision and, of course, the amendment of the Liberal Democracy because the National Assembly is not the body that can prejudge and assess what is at stake, what is contrary to the law, who is responsible for what until all the reports are received, until all the authorities have done theirs and act accordingly. I will also not support the amendment of the parliamentary groups because I do not know, from any of the reports so far, that I do not know from any evidence when the Republic of Slovenia has renounced the reduction of voting entitlements arising from ordinary shares. There was no evidence of this in today's discussion, in the material, anywhere. And, of course, this claim in the decision again prejudges some things. Therefore, I believe that the basic decision, where it is identified or proposed to the government, is to provide information on the level of ownership in the SIB, how it acted as a good host and what consequences it may have for the state budget. So this purchase can have positive, it can have negative consequences, but we just have to figure that out. And I suppose that, given what we will receive in the National Assembly on the basis of the first decision voted, there will be a sufficient basis for us to be able to create the right picture of the matter, and those, of course, who are empowered under the law, will act from the institutions mentioned at the outset to the last one appointed here. It would be very wrong for the National Assembly to turn into a public tribunal and play a different role here than it does after the constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u129	Thank you very much. My friend Pukšič, here comes my friend Rupar. Procedural? [[No, no, ……]] Please, first my friend Pukšič, behind him is my colleague Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I will also support this amendment to the second conclusion. Under point (c), it says, "on the consequences which or may still be borne by the ownership of the SIB to the State budget and its capital companies". I said earlier that today there was not much to say about the breach of this international treaty, which is the result of the infringements committed in the first place by those who have drawn up the loan contract, namely the Slovenian Investment Bank. However, even after a proposal for the incorporation of a flag right was made, the court did the same under the proposal of this treaty, which violated the agreement, and, of course, the District Court should nevertheless comply with the International Treaty and reject such a proposal for the incorporation of a flag right because it is not in accordance with the International Treaty. Which means it will definitely have implications for the state budget. Thirdly, why I will support this proposal - also because it has been agreed between all these players, both governments and so on, that it is possible to use the guarantee fund set up by the SIB as a guarantee, up to 60%, but this has not been used. The following is also due to the fact that from the Federal Republic of Germany, between 1993 and 1997, two German stamps were issued for each individual from 1993 to 1997 for the so-called launch, and from here twice after 9,000 marks. That is how we received today's report from the German bank, a letter confirming this. So there is also a breach of the international treaty, which will have tremendous negative consequences for our budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u131	Thank you very much. My friend, Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I will support the first decision, because it clearly states that we can only come to conclusions in this third implementation on the basis of this adoption. Of course, I could get some of them out of the media, because that was easy to read, as I've been saying all along. In view of why the Ljubljanaers, or owners of apartments and energy consumers, will now pay the following five to seven years again as much as they have so far. In fact, the city municipality of Ljubljana, of course, had to be a buyer of shares in the SIB bank, because I had said earlier that in its bodies, all of these people, who were also employed in the municipality, or some of the officials, were involved in the bank. Why did this or this connection start in the heat of the moment, why do we find it in the heat? Look, thesis, I picked her up from the media, I admit. Mr Hrvoje Draškovic, who is now in the Director of Energy, I have already said, is very closely connected with Mr Fedor Gregoric, who is now, you will not believe, an employee of the Impacta company, which is the main supplier of Indonesian coal for heating. But something happens, they drive in this heat in two blocks of coal with the train, and in the third block with the trucks, with the trucks. Interestingly, this third carrier is a question of why not everything with the train. I think it's weird. But why now with the trucks of the company Viator Vector? Simply because all connections [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Can I just finish this? [[...]] [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u133	My friend Rupar, my friend Rupar, please! Can we be right on top of each other?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u134	We are. But I'd like to warn the public. See how you prevent these procedures from executing and working the opposition [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u135	Comrade Rupar, may I interrupt you, like everyone else, after the end of the time available to you? Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u136	Thank you for your kindness, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u137	It's not about being nice. I can't be nice to one another, and I can't be rude to the other. We must do the same in all cases. My friend Candy has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. I will support the second proposal of the first amendment, but not the second. Why? Because the committee has already over-relented only the dictates of the requirement, which the National Assembly refers to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that it must do these and these things. Of course, the proposal of the Liberal Democracy also softens and in some ways blurs and takes the edge. I believe that, in any case, there is a need for a clear attitude here, which, however, requires that we know that this is an extremely important matter, not only that a person has to do his job, his job as it is necessary, but that the country must also carry out its task.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u139	Thank you very much. A colleague of mine, then a colleague of Dr. Bayuk's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u140	Your Honor! I would like to touch on point 2 of the proposal for a decision, namely, if the National Assembly adopts the proposal of the Liberal Democracy that we no longer consider the developments around the Bank to be controversial, it will, of course, destroy the whole activity of this National Assembly or of those institutions that have tried to resolve some things about the situation. However, I must say that, within the framework of the National Party, we estimate that activity - or purchase and decision on the majority stake of SIB, according to our assessment, has been illegal, that illegal things have been going on in the financial market, we have been witnessing for the last three months. And if someone in this room says it's illegal, even if it's not a dispute, it's a real confusion of political responsibility. At the time of the adoption of this amendment and the authorship of this amendment, it would mean that the country gives its consent to such transitional purchases. We therefore once again appeal to the National Party to the National Assembly not to support the proposal of the Liberal Democracy and to keep the label controversial in the basic direction of the proposal. In the Slovenian National Party, we will oppose the proposal of the Liberal Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, after him, mag. A visor. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Of course, I will support the amendment tabled by our Group of Members, together with the Social Democratic Party. I think it's much clearer, the purpose of everything we're going to do here. But I will not vote for the second if the first one is not adopted. In fact, you know, if George Orwell was still alive and I should be writing this book again, this debate, whether it's controversial or indisputable, or even this desire of the Liberal Democracy that if the word "disputed" is deleted, then it will be different, and I find it interesting. What were we doing today from 10 a.m. until now, if we were not talking about dispute over certain things? But if that's what you're worried about, God help you, I don't know how this can be solved, but you won't achieve anything if the word "disputed" is deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u143	Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I will support the amendment to the second decision of the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia in particular because the proposed amendment sets out more precisely the content of the decision so far. For if we see in the second decision under point A, how much co-ownership does the State have in the SIB, with an amendment of State interest and companies in its majority or shareholdings, such as the compensation company. In short, it is a more precise and precise definition of these requirements. In particular, I would like to point out something to Mr Anderlić in explaining his voice, because if that was not the reason why he would not listen to me, if that was the reason why he would not support the amendment, I would have made it clear to him that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, under the heading 019 - 01/2001 - 181 in its reply, had negotiated a reduction in its share in 1998 that it had concluded an agreement with the bank, confirmed at the Assembly on 29.6.1999, after which the government had also waived voting rights in almost - it is said - of 36.9% had taken 20% of the vote. That's it! This is an explanation of why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has renounced the reduction in voting entitlements resulting from those shares under point B. In short, I think that the amendment is worthy of support and that Mr Anderlič will also support it because he probably did not read it in Lotus Notes of our Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u145	Look, Master Vizjak, I must remind you once again that there is no controversy in the explanation of the voice, because there is no replica to explain the voice. A fellow Kremjar has a word, followed by a fellow Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u146	Thank you very much. We're talking about the LDS proposal. I will support this amendment for, of course, the absolutely principled reasons that I spoke about in the first decision. This National Assembly must preserve what it is and what it must be, and must not go into a speedy judgment, too quick to judge. But if we have a very clear record in the first decision that all these bodies will be, I suppose, the National Assembly will, as they are called upon, be invited to examine "the possible irregularities regarding" and so on. When they examine this, we will come to a dispute or indisputable. That's what this is about. Not now. Now, many of us may think that this is controversial, and I may think that it is controversial, but it is inappropriate for the National Assembly to write this down in advance without having to do what is written in the first decision; because it is very clear that you and you and you should find out that they are studying any irregularities. Once they've examined them when we get them, at that point, the purchase will become controversial. Until that time, however, the diction under C is very beautiful: what consequences this purchase has or may have for the state budget. It's very clear, it can't be any clearer. In connection with the first decision, when that happens, it will also be clear whether it is disputed or not, and then, of course, the National Assembly will also find out, and so will I, if you want, as an integral part of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u147	And my colleague, Rokavec, and then I'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. I will support the proposal of the first amendment. If this is not adopted, of course, then I will not support the amendment under the number of two LDS members. In fact, I note that if the majority of the National Assembly will adopt such an amendment, this will reflect the total exclusion of the National Assembly from the reality of the disputed purchase of the Slovenian Investment Bank. And that this is where the National Assembly is going to literally smile in front of the Slovenian public that it even notes and accepts that this purchase was not disputed. People of God, where are we? I will therefore certainly oppose such an amendment, because I think that the adoption of such an amendment means a complete break from any self-criticism of those who have also led to this controversial purchase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u149	My friend Janš. Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u150	Of course, I will not support this amendment of the Liberal Democracy. Hands on your heart, I think you're really overreacting with this amendment, and in some ways, you're making a mockery of this national assembly. Because if nothing seems to be at issue here, why are we even asking for these reports? Or perhaps to present this as an example of how it is done, or what? Just because we think it's controversial or we think there's been some sort of dispute here, it's normal for us to ask for these reports. And if we hadn't tabled this amendment, it wouldn't have stabbed anyone. It's stuck now because you've filed the patchamanda. That these conclusions, such as those proposed by amendments that may be more acute, also prove things that are being opened. Yesterday, for example, we learned that during the first and second rounds of the mayoral elections last year, the public company Parkiska rented EUR 75 million of loans to a foreign bank without registering this loan with the Ministry of Finance, without the city council deciding on it. In order to obtain the loan, they have pledged the property of the holding company, even Ljubljana practically, 75 million euros, 200 million German Marks have been leased by a public company that is not even nearly as valuable. He doesn't have any income to pay it off. He's not drawing credit yet, but we're already paying for it. Yesterday it was published in one of the newspapers. No one thought it worth reacting in any way. We may still be able to prevent this if we can't get through to the SIB bank. As a result of this little sharper conclusions, this amendment of the Liberal Democracy is completely superfluous.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I understand we can go to the vote. I'd ask everyone to be careful about that. We will first decide on the amendment, the addition to the second draft decision tabled by the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the LDS Club is irrelevant. We're voting. Please turn your phones off. 70 in attendance, 30 in and 37 in. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Thus, we can also decide on the proposal for a supplement tabled by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia on the second proposal. We're voting. Present 69, 36 for and 27 for. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it this amendment has been adopted. On the third proposal of the decision, a supplement was submitted to the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. I ask Members and Members of those parliamentary groups who still have the opportunity to discuss whether they want to debate, or I will also give this time an opportunity to explain before the decision. An explanation of the voice? No, no, no. It's a debate. Please, my grandson.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. Because we still have time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u153	Let me see if you still have time. Yes, you do. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u154	Yes, we do. Well, here I find this third decision very important, as regards the issue raised by Mr Pukšič, which at the first two points had no connection, and this is the law on the ratification of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial assistance for the creation of the existence and professional integration of qualified workers of the Republic of Slovenia. As far as the business of SIB is concerned, the first two points are concerned, I think, more than any other matter, it is said, that there is a dispute or indisputability of purchase or other consequences, which do not concern the operation of the bank itself; here they are seen in this third decision. I believe that the question or the need to explore how this agreement was implemented, in view of the fact that the other country was involved with its own resources, is said to be serious towards another partner country, our supporters also at the time of Slovenia's entry into European and other integrations, in particular as to whether someone changed the interest rate to our natives when they decided on this form of aid, whether it was under this agreement or whether this interest rate was altered on the basis of some other decisions which do not have a legal basis or could result in a breach of the agreement and also a dispute with a co-signee of this, which is with the Federal Republic of Germany. And the second question is, how did the question of grants go with those natives who had been promised? Was it really just a promise or was it actually an option, and to what extent was it exploited? It is said that they had all the grounds to benefit from this possibility of grants. In this respect, we support this third decision in the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party and we want clarification here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u155	Anyone else want a word in the debate? You don't have the chance, Comrade Jelinčič. Then I conclude the debate on this proposal as a complement. There is now an opportunity to explain the voice. I've seen my colleague, Jelinčič, and I've seen it one way or the other. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will all support the amendment to the proposal for a third decision, supported and also supported by the colleagues of the National Party. In fact, the basic proposal for conclusions is very gentle when it asks the Bank of Slovenia to give certain papers to the National Assembly. It is necessary to be aware that Article 152 of the Constitution, the first paragraph and the second sentence in it, states: "In its operation, the Bank is independent and directly accountable to the National Assembly." That's what we're asking here. We ask for something that is stipulated by the Constitution. The ruling Liberal Democracy, led until recently by Mr Drnovšek, who has also led all the way to this unacceptable and horrifying position, would now like to simply hide things until this point and point out that the Bank of Slovenia would not finally agree to the request and would remain without this information. I think the amendment, as proposed, is appropriate. At least specify which documents Banka Slovenije must submit and present to the National Assembly in accordance with Article 152 of the Constitution. What we are watching and listening to today in this national assembly is actually protecting the culprits in the banking field, in my opinion, crime, which is something unspeakable, something that has not yet been heard in democratic countries, and I think, perhaps not now, but in a year's time, when something will change in this country of Kranj, that the culprits will also be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič. Comrade Pukšič, there's a colleague of Rupar behind you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Of course, it was the way I explained a particular issue. The fact is that I will support this proposal for a third decision, my colleague and my colleague, even because the failure to comply with this international agreement violated 369 borrowers' rights, which were agreed between countries. By doing so, some or some families have also been killed. But those of you who said today that you need to get the evidence first, and that's all that's left of your old, obnoxious memory. When the evidence was given when the judgments were handed down, nothing happened. In the end, all those who have been convicted for five years have not even spent one minute. Then, of course, do not expect anything to happen now, even if the institutions give some evidence. Stealing and damage to social property by amending legislation by enacting specific laws to actually make [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] severe transitions, but today this is concluded by political majority and family ties. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u159	Thank you very much. My friend, Rupar. My friend Rupar is the only one who has a word in this room. I'm asking everyone else not to disturb him.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr. President. I will support this proposal. But I will, of course, continue where I had to end first. I was talking about an Impacta company that drives coal into the third block in which Mr Fedor Gregorič is employed. And I'll tell you why they're driving it by truck, not by train. He's being driven by Viator Vector. They drive it because of the agreement they have, and also because, in this company and through Energy, the United List mainly keeps jobs, because, you will not believe, there is now a former Deputy Mayor of the United List, the Ljubljana Councillor, Mr Kolarič Anton, and a co-signatory of the contract for the purchase of SIB, Mr Samo Lozej. They both got jobs there now. Now we get the perfect connection why Energetics, why SIB is a bank and city hall and why the Ljubljanaers will be sorry, but for the next five to seven years they pay 100% more expensive heating than they would otherwise. Let me conclude this "Spanish sequel" as someone has said here. But otherwise it is impossible for me to complete this implementation under this Rules of Procedure in any way. It can even happen, as colleague Jakič mentioned, that the bank will now be sold even more expensive than the city men and the lady. I'd like to see it, too. But in this case, I say it's already signed by the Rekar or there'll be a contract with the bank to make all the funds, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] and others transferred from all Ljubljana companies to this bank, but in this case the Ljubljana people feel twice as sorry for it, because they will have to pay 12 years more for it than they would otherwise. Mainly, Mr President, I have heard [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u161	I have to interrupt, Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u162	Anyway, I'd love to see it, and I'm really glad it's today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u163	My friend Rupar, I need to interrupt.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u164	Just a thought if I don't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u165	You can't. My friend, Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u166	Then I predict another fourth tour.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u167	Now he's got the word "magic." Vizjak, behind him is a colleague of Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment of the Social Democratic Party and of New Slovenia, which I will support, is in fact indeed editorial in nature, so it would be funny if we did not support it. The proposed amendment sets out concepts that are fully consistent with banking legislation. This is about supervision and not about the revision of the Bank of Slovenia to the SIB. I think it would only be worth supporting if there weren't other things.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u169	Thanks, mag. A visor. My friend Tsukati, you're followed by a colleague of Peca's. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u170	Thank you. Like my predecessor said, it's a editorial matter. In addition to changing the audit to control, which is in accordance with the legislation, the date 15.4. is also changed to 30.4., which we find more acceptable. However, the word "request" is also omitted in our amendment, because the Bank of Slovenia is obliged to report after the constitution and does not have to ask the bank, but the bank is obliged, and we can say "the most familiar national assembly". If this amendment is not supported by the Liberal Democracy and the United List, then what I said in the morning as my well-founded fear, namely that whenever we speak in this National Assembly about major corruption, not about the thief, but about really major corruption in Slovenia, this half is immediately placed in defence of this corruption, every sentence, every request to mitigate, is immediately felt hurt whenever the major sins of individual actors are discussed. That's your grip, gentlemen, as far as your men are concerned! That's your grip! And because of this capture, this National Assembly cannot perform its supervisory and legislative function as it should. Vote on your news!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u171	And finally, my colleague Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u172	In the framework of the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that a reasonable third proposal for a decision or a supplement to the third proposal for a decision would be adopted mainly because it contains in its content all three elements, such a time commitment, 30 April, both a substantive or subject commitment to what it contains and in the final stage also the addressee. However, since the content was usually too little for quality decision-making because a certain part of the Members had generally opted for or against, but not on the basis of content, I think it makes sense to define a second argument, that is historically speaking. Look, so far, the National Court of Auditors, the Bank of Slovenia, the Bureau for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Agency for the Market in Securities, the KAD and the SOD, of course, did not call on all the players involved in this game because he did not have the opportunity. That is why there is no result on their part. Therefore, in the country at this time, Members of the Liberal Democracy are afraid to accuse or deplore the act and, on the other hand, some Members hope to say that it is a matter of damage to social property or damage that will ultimately have consequences in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. From all three substantive elements, I think it would make sense if the national assembly adopted at least this proposal or the addition to the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u173	Attention, please. The National Assembly will move on to a decision. We have a supplement tabled by the Members of the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party. You still want to explain your voice? Please, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of this amendment, which we have presented together with the Social Democrats, because I see nothing at all in it. You know, I'm willing to learn something myself, and the word dispute, if there was any issue, I came and I asked them to look at me in a dictionary that I don't have with me, because it's too big, the property or the characteristics of the disputed or questionable, it's no big deal. I hope that this proposal will not be disputed because they cannot actually raise any doubts, it refers to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and mentions what is actually the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia under the Bank of Slovenia Act. This is control over the administration and also control over the functioning of the Supervisory Board. That is why I hope that my colleagues here will not find anything controversial in this, because there is nothing questionable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u175	Now I'm going to go to the vote. I don't see a time limit for explanations of vote anymore. We have an update. Once again, there will be no misunderstandings, we are on page 2 and 3 of the material you have before you. This is a complement to the third proposal of the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party. We're voting. 68 in attendance, 52 in and 7 in. [[The vote was 52.]] [[7 against.]] The supplement has been accepted. We can now proceed to the debate and to the decision on the Supplement tabled by the Slovenian People's Party or its Group of Members to the 4th proposal for a decision. Comrade Podobnik asks for a word in the context of the debate. Please. Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u176	Thank you, President. The fourth conclusion is that, as legislators, I should be asked by the authorities in these three decisions to assess whether and to what extent the existing legal order provides them with conditions and powers to act that prevent and sanction abuses in obtaining property benefits for individuals and propose appropriate legislative changes. In the amendment, we propose to be explicit: in particular Article 243 of the Criminal Code, which refers to the misuse of internal information, and we propose to supplement the Securities Market Act, which should define in detail prohibited transactions in the securities market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u177	Does he wish to speak to any of the Members or Members of those groups of Members who still have time available? Please, buddy Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I would just like to point out, Comrade Podobnik, that I was at a meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, where this proposal warned that this could also mean an alibi for the impunity of those who have acted in any way so far, and that they could be punished under another article. In this regard, the common conclusion was that it was better not to adopt such a concrete supplement. There have been explanations that there are different articles and that it may not be necessary to punish someone after 243 but perhaps as an abuse of the official position. Dr. Bayuk warned of that. Then, together, we found that it was better not to accept this supplement because there was no doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u179	Colleague Parallel, will you change the text?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I was not aware of this information that you discussed this on the working body, and my colleague Potrč's argument was justified, so on behalf of the group, I withdraw the amendment if it is still possible to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u181	It is possible to withdraw it because there is still a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u182	We're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u183	It's still possible because there's a debate about him. Then we concluded this discussion. We have another proposal from you, Comrade Podobnik, or your parliamentary group, which is a proposal for a new fifth proposal for a decision. You want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u184	I have already spoken about this proposal for a decision on behalf of the Group of Members and, briefly, in my debate. In our view, it is good that, in the context of these decisions, the National Assembly also adopts a decision in which, of course, it is not in any way prejudice to the competence of the Bank of Slovenia, which is under the Constitution and the law, but in the fact that today we will vote on the proposal for decisions under point 1, where it is clear that some supervisory authorities will report on the operation of the SIB, so that until now, in our opinion, this is 30 days, the Bank of Slovenia would not give consent to transfer ownership of the shares of the Slovenian Investment Bank until the end of these supervisory procedures. I am convinced that this decision is also in line with the first decision, which will obviously be proposed in the same way as it was adopted on the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u185	A debate? I don't know if you have time for her. Explanation. Then I will close the debate and give my word for an explanation. Comrade Anderlich, colleague of Jelinčič, behind him. Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u186	I am opposed to such a proposal for a decision because it smells like interventionism because it smells like old times when the Assembly was charging all authorities in the country, and before the Assembly, the CK did what an institution should do. Thank God, we have a constitution, we have laws, and every institution is obliged to act in accordance with the Constitution and laws. I believe she'll do the same in this case. Even more so, because the SIB bank is not heavily owned by the state, the ownership structure is different. I am afraid of the times when the National Assembly could, on the basis of a general assessment, on the basis of a desire for a public opinion created, also make conclusions on this basis and lay down judgments, as one of the debaters has said today, I hope that we can finally come to conclusions when we make the final judgment. I hope that the National Assembly will never impose judgments, but that it will act in accordance with the Constitution and will continue to be the legislator as prescribed in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u187	My friend Jelinczych. Procedurally. Excuse me, Comrade Jelinčič. Comrade Companion, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u188	Mr President, how can I explain to my colleague Anderlich, who, in his explanation of vote, has disputed with me? That's not allowed. I can't answer him.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u189	I've already explained that. He was just talking about the decision. He didn't argue with you, with a proposal for a decision. He said why he wouldn't take it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u190	My friend Anderlič has disputed the content of this decision and I can't explain it to him. I think the rules of procedure have been misused.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u191	No, no, no. Look, I mentioned earlier, what are the functions of the different words that someone has. In explaining the decision, it is possible to state and justify why you will support the decision or not. I don't think there's been a violation of the rules of procedure. Now I give my word to my colleague Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will support this fifth proposal for a decision and I think that my colleagues in the Slovenian National Party will also support it. It is true that we have a constitution and laws, but our constitutions and laws are respected selectively - some must respect them, some do not have to respect them. I don't think it's going to hurt if we suggest that Banka Slovenije don't issue an agreement on the transfer of ownership of shares, because with the transfer of ownership, the matter will become even more blurry, and it may happen that some who today could be responsible for their actions will transfer capital to someone else and thus remain empty pockets, and then, by playing the law, laugh at all Slovenes and Slovenes. I hope that the proposer will not withdraw this proposal, as he withdrew the previous proposal when he fell for one of his colleagues who said that he was restricting things with this dictatorship, but he forgot to say that there is a word here that says 'exceptional', which means that the text is not exclusive, but it points out a certain article of a particular law or code. I think this proposal makes sense. If nothing else, he will give some thought to a number of things and may make a different decision. After all, the National Assembly, despite the fact that it works very well here and very much in terms of the ruling coalition, but we are some kind of state authority, perhaps even the highest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u193	Dr. Bayuk, did you want a word? Please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. I will support this proposal. I'll back him up, not because he'd be afraid of a proposal. If this text were "showing" to the Bank of Slovenia, then I would understand some of the fears that have been expressed here, but we propose. It is in the British tradition of "shadow of the Senate of the Congress", that is to say, what is the wish of this national assembly, because it is a proposal and as a proposal it could also stand. In fact, I'm afraid of a different situation. I'm afraid it's this situation that seems to have settled down with us right now - that we have laws, we have constitutions, we have organs, we have regulations, but things are only going in the wrong direction, but not in accordance with the law, not the constitution, not the common sense. That's what I'm really afraid of. Just because it is clear today that Banka Slovenije has already done wrong in this particular case, I think it is right to get a message from the National Assembly to suggest that it should now be prevented from doing so until the control is complete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u195	Comrade Companion, explanation of voice? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u196	Thank you, President. Of course, Comrade Jelinčič, this time we will not withdraw this amendment. The reason why I'm going to support the amendment. The first is that we have already proposed, by the decision under point 1, that, among other things, the Bank of Slovenia should examine possible irregularities in the sale or purchase of SIB and report it to the National Assembly within 30 days. At the same time, we know that it is in the process that the bank now surrenders to the new owner, the procedure is in play and today some information has been given here when this is supposed to happen. Indeed, it would be a paradox for the supervisory authorities to find some major irregularities and the ownership process would continue. I believe that such a decision is corrected, we only propose to Banka Slovenije, we are formally its formal supervisor under the Constitution and the law. It is true that this relationship is slightly worse legally defined, but if we decide today to suggest that Banka Slovenije just waits for its decision until it receives these opinions of supervisory procedures, and one is alone, and within thirty days, we will not intervene in any way in its competence. I appeal that this proposal be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Comrade Rokavec, explanation of voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. I will support this proposal for an additional decision, because I believe that a national assembly can propose to any state institution. We are not demanding, we are not legislating here, but we are proposing to Banka Slovenije, this is, very nice to say, at least what the National Assembly can do at this point in time to actually do what has been said several times already, with the speed that is at this moment in relation to the new sale of the SIB bank in view, the things that have been in this disputed sale of the SIB bank do not fall under the carpet. The Bank of Slovenia should probably have checked any disputed irregularities that have been committed in this process before the issue of its consent. For this reason, I believe that this proposal is still in place and has a direct nature to the Bank of Slovenia. If we can't do that, then I don't know why we're sitting here at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u199	My friend Rupar, then he bakes. You have the floor, two minutes to explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u200	Thank you very much. That's the conclusion. I will also support this proposal, but of course I agree that the National Assembly cannot be a court of law, to condemn someone, I agree. However, I fear that in this country there are so many connections between state prosecutors, between courts, between current policies, between the police, that no one will ever be accused, as it has never been in all matters so far. In fact, someone will be accused, not the one who allegedly turned three thousand million tolars out of Ljubljana via the SIB bank, will certainly not be charged. On Monday, it is likely that someone who misused the situation and used the state or municipal budget for 0.5 million tolars will be charged. What will be the punishment, we know that it will be and that it will be pursued by an identified member of the United List, a Ukrainian state prosecutor, is also clear, and it is also clear, Boštjančič, yes, and it is also clear that this condemned Paul Rupar will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u201	Colleague Skolcz, pardon, first colleague of Peca and then colleague of Skolč. Please, the only one who has a word is my colleague Peca. [[...]] Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u202	Dear colleagues, I ask you for a few minutes of attention, the point is approaching the place and I think we are at the most important part; this is when making decisions. Regrettably, the practice has shown that we have rejected all important decisions and, of course, the so-called SIB affaires, or if we use the slang of Liberal Democracy, the event of SIB, we will not come to the end. I would like to start by expressing my regret that the Slovenian People's Party has withdrawn the supplement to the fourth draft of the decision, as I estimate that, at the time of the adoption of that dictatorship, the SIB affair may also have received an epilogue in the criminal code. Otherwise, personally, now I doubt she'll get this epilogue. On the other hand, as far as the last one is concerned [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u203	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u204	I would like to say, however, that, according to my assessment, the most important last part of the sentence is 'to complete all control procedures over its business', so that for so long things are stopped, which I think is most meaningful for two reasons. [[...]] First time. Because this will confirm some legal state in our society that there will be no undisclosed shadow of the bank's negative and illegal operation. Another time. Because I'm sure it's also in terms of some kind of capital. Because I estimate that future owners will, of course, have a clear idea of what was going on, rather than meeting with SIB again in a few months when the data will be known. We will support the final supplement on the third page of the proposals in the National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u205	Thank you. My friend Skull has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to say, as far as this decision is concerned, that if you acted normally, you would not be able to vote at all, and for a simple reason, because it is only necessary to see whether the conclusions are in the context of what the national assembly can do, or whether, if we go in this situation, they are in the context of the relationship between the Bank of Slovenia and the legislator. But it's not so much a matter of concern for future buyers. I agree with the intention of this concern that my colleagues have mentioned, and I assume that all future buyers are very interested in these careful reviews and close supervision. The problem is the formulation of the joint. If the national assembly begins to conclude in such a voluntary manner, it shall not accept those restrictions which the national assembly has. We have a law on the Bank of Slovenia and Bank of Slovenia must be practically autonomous in all situations in its decisions. I myself fear that this well-intention, the volunteerism we have here, is a strong political volunteerism, a strong contradiction to the spirit of the Bank of Slovenia Act, which was created at a time when our positions were replaced and when we agreed at least that its role must be as independent and neutral. From this point of view, it would be interesting to hear the opinion of the legislative service whether it is possible to vote on these types of decisions, unless, of course, you allow it in a way that anyone can vote on the table as an explanation of vote is used to discuss sausages and cranberry sausages.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u207	Mr Školč, President or Chairman shall have the opportunity to determine, for procedural reasons, that a proposal for a decision cannot be put to the vote and so order. As far as content is concerned, it is not up to him to determine the issue personally or to anyone who is in charge of the meeting. I spoke briefly to my colleague, Mr Sponik, who proposed this decision. Comrade Podobnik said that he insisted on this content and such a text and that the State Assembly should vote on it. Now he has the word of his colleague Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I myself will support such a proposal for a decision. One of the reasons is that these 365 borrowers, or 69, may be able to make the number even significantly higher, but from the SIB they do not give it, they may also exercise their legal rights under an international contract. Given that we decided to join the European Union and NATO 14 days ago, of course they have no choice but to turn to institutions where the legal system works, that is, in our common larger country, that is in the European Union. Unfortunately, our legal systems are not working, which has been proven several times, and the production of this has been a political criminal if you want more than 100,000 unemployed people that we have today through these, so to speak, mirrored, people from jobs. And what the National Assembly is proposing is that the National Assembly expresses its opinion by one of the institutions that should function substantially differently in the country. Of course, if this institution were to function as it should, this has already been mentioned several times today, then such a sale would not have occurred and, of course, these options would not have occurred. Members of the National Assembly, who are elected from the people, have the right to speak only our views and opinions on this institution. And she will act in one way or another in accordance with the law that imposes upon her her her activity.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u209	Comrade Janš, did you sign in? Please, you have the floor. Procedurally. Please, Comrade Lavrinc, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Because I am angry with a similar doubt as my colleague, otherwise, according to the content, I think that this is also a complete non-trust, not only to the Governor, but to the Council of the Bank, I would ask that before the decision is taken on this proposal, the legislative and legal service should be given an opinion as to whether this is even possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u211	I ask the legislature to prepare this position. As long as this is not presented orally, I will suspend the session for at least a few minutes. My friend Janš now has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u212	I don't know if it makes sense to explain the voice to a decision that someone wants to withdraw for procedural reasons or to remove. He can be withdrawn by the proposer, which probably won't, because I don't think he's controversial either. He'd be arguing if it said inside that the National Assembly is ordering Banka Slovenije to do anything. However, if it says that the National Assembly proposes something, this is entirely in accordance with the Constitution and the Bank of Slovenia law, because the Constitution states: "The Bank of Slovenia is independent and accountable to the National Assembly." Thus, this autonomy, which is also provided for in the Constitution, is limited by the supervisory role of the legislator, the national assembly. The Bank of Slovenia shall send reports to this National Assembly. As for the non-trust of the Bank of Slovenia, I think it would also be good to say it for some of the procedures that we have discussed today. This bank has tolerated the business of SIB, which was poor, at least since 1997. In this latter case, the Bank of Slovenia has agreed to take over the majority stake you have in the material on a very controversial basis, in my opinion. This agreement could be rejected on the basis of the law cited in the same decision because that bank did not demonstrate the conditions for normal survival. The Bank of Slovenia later confirmed this when it requested recapitalisation. However, before that, she did issue a decision allowing her to take over. With this, the person who signed the decision participated in the fraud, in the fraud of those who overpaid the shares - these are taxpayers in Ljubljana. This thing is perfectly clear. The National Assembly at least what it is, is that it can propose to wait until things are cleared up, because this is the most normal thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u213	Please, buddy Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I first went to my colleague Sponik and asked him if he had checked the meaning of this decision for two reasons. Firstly, I do not think this decision is clear because it contains colleague Podobnik - so explained to me - wants the decision not to be taken until the task referred to in point 1 has been fulfilled, it is said, within 30 days. That's not what this decision says. It says "until all control procedures are completed". I don't know when all the surveillance procedures are over. In short, this deadline is unclear. Second [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] What, buddy, do you take that as a problem?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u215	No, no, that's an explanation for the voice, there can be nothing else!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u216	No, I'll explain my voice if I may.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u217	It's the only thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u218	Besides, I don't think I know if he has a bank or not - that's what I've asked - the deadline for him to decide on. If he doesn't have one, then, of course, stopping is possible. If we had a deadline, we probably shouldn't impose something that would be contrary to that deadline. For this reason, I think the proposal is unclear and I will not support it. There's something else I'd like to say. Colleagues and colleagues often cite Article 152 of the Constitution. Since I have some experience and some knowledge also from law, I would like to say that the State Bank is truly independent and accountable to the National Assembly, but this autonomy and responsibility are governed by law. Until the law is declared unconstitutional, so long is the law and we cannot directly invoke the Constitution when we have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u219	My friend Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u220	Thank you very much. I attach to the opinion we have heard that we are waiting for a legal opinion and an explanation of vote. But with all this listening, look, we've heard the word "mislead" - because this proposal doesn't impose anything on anyone. I think that the National Assembly has at least a legitimate right to propose in a case where there is obviously something illegal, or should something be illegal that the National Assembly has the right to propose any proposal. There are no legal questions here for me, unless, of course, someone is looking for them to hide a lot more at this time of traffic. I will therefore support an absolute new fifth proposal for a decision, which I hope will not be withdrawn by the applicant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u221	Procedurally. Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u222	Thank you, Mr. President. In a way, you've reopened the debate. Will you allow us to reopen the debate and to complement this proposal for a decision so that it is clearly clear that it comes from point 1 of this Decision? Yeah, it's point one. So it's 30 days. I've already said that in my performance. So you were essentially discussing the decision. The President, if you reopen the debate, I am prepared, on behalf of the proposaler, to supplement it, so that it will be perfectly clear here what the proposal for a decision is.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u223	I would now order a 10-minute recess, so we wait for the legal-legislative position. And at this time, please consider this possibility you've been talking about. We'll continue the session at 5:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u224	The time allowed for a recess to prepare the legal and regulatory service for the response that we have asked for has expired. I'm asking everyone to return to the hall. I know it's the seventh hour of uninterrupted debate now, and everyone would have to take a longer break, but we have to keep working. Please return to the large debate room of the National Assembly. Time for a short recess to prepare the opinion of the legislative and legal service on the proposals of the Slovenian Parliamentary Group of the People's Party has expired. As you know, the Slovenian People's Party's Group proposes a new fifth proposal for a decision. I must inform the proposer, Comrade Podobnik, that it is no longer possible under the Rules of Procedure to amend the text of the proposal. We are in the decision-making phase. This was possible even at the time of the discussion and this was concluded, so in this case they would now be in breach of the rules of procedure. When you are all gathered in the Chamber, I will wait another half minute, I will ask the legislature to give its opinion and position, and then we will decide on the proposal. Colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats. I'll give my word first to my colleague Sponik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u225	Mr President, I would like to help you not to violate the rules of procedure in any way. When you opened the debate on this decision, I was the only one who discussed it. Some colleagues, after you explained your point, said that such a decision could be unclear. But unfortunately you did it when you explained your voice. No one's ever told me this in a formal session before. The President, if we could agree and if this is not in conflict with the Rules of Procedure, on the fact that I was the only one to discuss and had the opportunity to have someone say in the debate what this decision is unclear, I would have completed it immediately. In the Group of Members, we are convinced that our decision is completely correct. He is talking about proposing to the Bank of Slovenia that, depending on its procedures, he simply waits for a decision on the agreement to transfer ownership of shares of the Slovenian Investment Bank until the completion of those procedures which we will adopt today in Article 1. That's 30 days. She's one of the ones who's gonna report it to us, too. Then there's the securities market agency, and I think there's an accounting court. This would complement, therefore, the completion of the control procedures for its operations, resulting from point 1 of the conclusions. That would make this decision clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u226	Comrade Podobnik, if no one objects to my way of leading the discussion of transactions, let me first say that we are conducting it in accordance with Article 131, paragraph 7. It is therefore a reasonable application of the legislative procedure, which states that I quote the seventh paragraph: "The amendment may be amended, supplemented or withdrawn by the amendment until the end of the discussion on the amendments to the article proposed by the amendment." I ask my colleagues or colleagues, would anyone object to my colleague Sponik modifying or complementing it if it changes things? Please, my fellow schoolboy. I think you're just gonna say you're arguing and then I'm gonna take that into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u227	It's not a question of whether or not he denies it. If we get a new conclusion, then we need to reopen the debate. Otherwise, it was perfectly clear that the debate was closed. I've told my dilemmas within the explanations of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u228	Okay, then we'll go to the vote. First of all, we will ask Mrs Bitenčeva, Head of the Legislative and Legal Service, to inform us of her position on this text. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u229	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. A well-respected choir. In the context of the question raised by the legislative and legal service, we believe that it is most appropriate, I will quote literally Article 2 of the Bank of Slovenia Act, which states as follows: "The Bank of Slovenia and the members of its decision-making bodies shall be independent in the performance of their duties under this Act and shall not be bound by the conclusions of the position and instructions of the State or of any authority and shall not address them in accordance with instructions and guidance." It's a legal dictatorship. We believe that the decision as proposed would not, in fact, correspond to the position of the bank after its content. as defined in the Banka Slovenije Act and that the National Assembly should not, in fact, adopt such a decision in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u230	The National Assembly will now decide on the proposal tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please, procedurally, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u231	I would like this document, which the lady also read. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u232	That's the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u233	I want her opinion in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u234	Look, Dr. Bajuk's colleague. The National Assembly must decide in such a way that all the consonants of its decisions are clear to all of us. If you think that, in the event that we have heard the opinion orally, this is not the case, I will order 10 minutes and you will also receive in writing what Mrs Bitencheva has proposed. However, I think there is no need for that, if I may say so, Dr Bayuk, because Mrs Bitencheva merely referred to the relevant article of the law. Dr. Bayuk, do you insist on this, given that she referred only to the article of the law? Otherwise, I would ask Mrs Bitenchev to repeat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u235	Mr President, as a response, I have proposed that I read the article of the Bank of Slovenia Act, which I would not read again, because I will read it in the same text. I said that given that it explicitly states that members and banks are not bound by decisions and positions, instructions from state authorities or any other authorities and must not be addressed in accordance with instructions or guidance. Such a decision could not be issued by the national assembly. That's what I said. Of course, I can also attach the Bank of Slovenia Act, which contains such a provision, but I do not think that this is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u236	In accordance with Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure, we have assessed that a specific legal issue must be resolved at the meeting itself. We have called on the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service to sit down, quote the Rules of Procedure, "to give an oral opinion". That's what she did. That's why I believe, Dr. Bayuk, that the conditions for decision are met. You want to explain your voice, Comrade Sok? You haven't done that in this matter yet, so you have your word. Please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u237	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u238	No, Comrade Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u239	Ah, Juice! Well, then I will, too, later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u240	My friend Sok. Dr. Bajuk, you've already explained your vote on this issue. No, you can't say a word about that. However, Comrade Sok may give an explanation to the proposal for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u241	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I do not think that the opinion of the legislative and legal service is in line with what is stated in this proposal. In fact, this proposal for a decision for which I will vote states that the National Assembly proposes to the Bank of Slovenia that, in the sale process of the Slovenian Investment Bank, d.d., no consent be given to the transfer of ownership of shares of the Slovenian Investment Bank, d.d., until all supervisory procedures over its operations have been completed. So it's the political will of this national council. We are proposing, but of course this does not mean that the bank cannot do so in accordance with its legislation. That is how I read the proposal for this decision and in no way prejudges the legal possibilities for the bank to decide otherwise in accordance with the legislation which gives it that right, as some here explain. I don't see why such a debate on such a decision is proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u242	Good. The National Assembly will now decide. We have heard an oral opinion in accordance with the business provision of the Legal and Legislative Service. We are not voting on her opinion, we are voting on the content of the proposal. May I have your attention in the hall? Comrade Kangler, have you yet to explain your vote on this matter? [[No, no, ……]] Please, Comrade Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u243	I myself will support this proposal from the Group of Members. Given that we have voted the first decision where the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the State Prosecutor's Office, the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia and the Bank of Slovenia - we have adopted such a decision! And also in this decision, proposed by the parliamentary group, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Bank of Slovenia - Banka Slovenije does not impose, but Banka Slovenije only proposes. I do not think that this dictatorship is at issue with certain provisions of the National Bank Act, as we have previously heard. And once again, I have voted for all the conclusions so far, and I will also support this, solely because we are once trying to get an epilogue that is supposed to get its edge and in some way its right in court or elsewhere. All the debates that have been in this house have been empty until now. Yesterday, April 7th, was ten years from the hit affair. Yesterday was ten years, April 7th, since the hit affair! And all the other affairs that have been triggered in this house since then, none have experienced a judicial epilogue or any other feature of political, which is characteristic of our Slovenian democracy. It does not seem disputed to me if we propose to the Bank of Slovenia, but not to impose on it, we simply propose to it. If he has competence under the law, he should try to do his job quickly, conscientiously, effectively and legally.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u244	Dr. Bernick, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote in favour of this proposal, which is not even necessary, but it is good that we know it and that we have it. It seems to me that the lady from the legislature, if I understand correctly, has said that this dictatorship we have here does not legally object to the fact that it does not cause a constitutional dispute. That's how I understood it. That's why I'd like to have the actual text of this lecture, to read it and look at it, because I'm a slower variety. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u246	All I'm asking is, what's the word, buddy?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u247	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u248	The words of what?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u249	Explanations from the lady in our legislative service. This is a habit everywhere and we will not vote on something we have only heard once. Secondly, I would say, of course, the Bank of Slovenia is independent, but we can say that. But if the bank doesn't think it's appropriate for her or not according to her authority or anything like that, she'll come back and say so. As far as I understand the situation, if we can use common sense here, we haven't violated anything, not the constitution, not the constitutional conflict, and so on. But it's good that it's in there, so people know that we're interested in solving this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u250	My colleague, Dr. Bernik, look, I quoted that part and the provision of the Rules of Procedure, which makes it clear that the National Assembly hears the oral opinion. We will not decide on the opinion, nor does the opinion propose that the National Assembly does not vote on this proposal, but merely submits its position. The National Assembly will decide that. That is why I believe that Mrs Bitenčevato has said and referred twice to the law or to a certain article, so that there is no need for written opinion before us to decide. Comrade Auschwitz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u251	Thank you very much. If we have understood Mrs Bitenchev correctly and there is no reason for her to read the law adopted by this National Assembly, then we can understand that this amendment has actually sent Banka Slovenije to do so. It is, therefore, a guidance, but it has nothing to do with the amendment to Article 1, when we have proposed to the bank to examine possible irregularities and report thereon. At the time of this amendment, it seems to me that even in the case of some strange court proceedings, the National Assembly may also adopt a decision to propose to a court how to decide a disputed case. That's a guide, and we can't do that. Of course, this is why we cannot support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u252	Please, my friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u253	Thank you very much. I will support this decision because we are becoming more of a mushroom society than a national assembly. If we supported in point 1 of the decision, or have taken a decision to propose to Banka Slovenije to examine irregularities, everything was fine. There, as a political institution, the body that passed the Banka Slovenije Act suggested that it do something. Here in this decision, which is just sort of a post-festum of this 1st point, this time deciding is something unacceptable. Let's treat the same matter in two terms. Because I supported the first one, I'll support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u254	Comrade Lavrinz, explanation of voice. He's been followed by a fellow Kremjar. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u256	May I please, Comrade Lavrinc, next to you, if you please, Comrade Lavrinc has the floor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Look, why don't I back this up, and I've triggered maybe a little bit of this mess. Because here in this decision we would just suggest to the bank what to do in particular, in its field of work, while in what has been adopted, we suggest that they study and report to us. This is also in accordance with the Bank of Slovenia Act. The next reason is to take on the responsibility of people who are experts in the world of Banka Slovenije. In a way, it's an expression of complete mistrust. Not only is he in conflict with the law but he is also an expression of complete mistrust. It may happen that we will be in some discussion So, first of all, I would suggest that you all remember a little while together when the law on Banka Slovenije was written, how bad the blood was if anyone wanted any interference over Banka Slovenije. [[...]] This one should be on its own. But of course there was another governor back then. Now that's a good moment for us, but we'd do something different. I think that some things in this country, however, are well done and one such is that the Bank of Slovenia is independent, so it must also be left alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u258	Voice explanation, Comrade Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u259	Thank you very much. I will not support this additional decision. The reason, of course, is once again principled nature. The first conclusion, which we have already discussed so many times, is very clear and contains all these matters. Also, the Bank of Slovenia, including all other institutions, is asking them to study possible irregularities. This is, of course, a story that's fine and let them do it. I am sure that the National Assembly must have so many words that all these institutions will take very seriously and must take the proposals of the National Assembly. However, in this Decision, which is now proposed, it is, of course, already directly interfering with the implementation of any conclusions. That's not a good thing to do. The first decision states that all these institutions must do so, I say'must' because I am sure that they will, because this national assembly should, of course, have such a weight that these institutions do not look through the proposals of the national assembly. However, the fifth additional decision directly interferes with what he says and says to someone, otherwise he kindly suggests, but speaks of what he should do. He must find out on his own on the basis of the first conclusion. I am sure that if they find any irregularities, as we believe, they may take one of the measures, just as it says here. But the procedure is essential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u260	Comrade Kebrich, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u261	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If we're thinking a little logically, it's true that we're proposing. But how will we feel if we realize that the bank is sovereign is not under any influence, neither can any of it demand or influence it? And what will happen - the sovereignty of the proposal will not be accepted. How will we feel about proposing something that is not acceptable for a sovereign institution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u262	The National Assembly will now move on to the decision-making process. May I have your attention, please? We are in the process of deciding on a proposal from the Slovenian People's Party's Group for a new 5th proposal for a decision. We're voting. Present 73, 30 for and 42 for. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. We have thus concluded the debate and decision-making on the amendments to the supplementary draft conclusions at point 1. We will now move on to a decision on the completed proposal for decisions in full. Voice explanation, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Despite the fact that we did not accept this last amendment, which would in fact have prevented similar things from happening, just before the SIB affair came out, when some companies, if not mistaken, had raised 100 million deposits from Kranj, Merkur from Kranj raised 100 million deposits from Kranj - so this would not be happening now, but we will not stop it. Nevertheless, I think it is better for the National Assembly to at least show a desire to correct or discuss a matter. I will support these conclusions myself, even though this is more or less sand in the eyes of taxpayers and taxpayers, and this in fact somehow excused all those involved in the SIB affair. I think those who are involved will go to dinner right after this vote, and I think they'll invite a lot of people to this dinner and have a glass, and the cops won't catch them, because they also have police control in their domain. I do not think we have shown today that I do not know what great desire for the rule of law in this national assembly. At least the majority who voted against the smart, sober and cleansing amendments, that majority will drive this Slovenian boat forward - from the affair to the affair which, of course, was ruled by the previous Prime Minister, Mr Drnovšek, under the rule of whom all these affairs were taking place and which are now on the agenda. To show my well-being for something, I will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u264	Good. The National Assembly will vote. Before that, colleagues Peca and colleagues Janš want to explain their votes. Please, Comrade Peca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u265	The fact is that at this point we have nothing left but to adopt these proposals. Although it is true that the debate took place shortly before also in the direction of sharpening the conclusions. But it is the policy of the Liberal Democracy and, in the final stage, of the United Nations that the conclusions are not sharpened. Despite the fact that we have quite a few conclusions ahead of us, we see that there has also been a duplication of things with the assistance of the Legal Affairs Secretariat, Mrs Bitencheva and her arguments on individual matters. When it comes to a less important decision, this is no longer in conflict with the legislation, but when it comes to a more important decision, the Secretariat for Legal Affairs, with the assistance of the President of the National Assembly, Mr Pahor, allows for misinterpretation, while you do not allow the members of the National Assembly to speak. As far as the conclusions are concerned, it is true that at the moment this is all the national assembly can do, and that is why we will also support them in the National Party. But we must be aware today that, of course, only through these proposals of conclusions, which were also formulated before the meeting of the National Assembly, will we achieve nothing in concrete terms. The National Assembly missed much when it allowed the Bank of Slovenia, on the one hand, to propose, request, propose and introduce a criminal code into the conclusions. Personally, I regret that the National Assembly has made a decision in the goal and in the spirit of soft politics. I am convinced that the National Assembly should today adopt positions that would clearly signal to the public that all of us in this national assembly with indignation and, with the highest possible level of criticism, monitor the events that are to be related to the State administration or to politics and should all take sides, not as the National Assembly has cut off today when it has essentially given a green light for this action and similar actions in the public financial market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u266	Comrade Janša, behind you, Comrade Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u267	I regret that the conclusions that have been put forward subsequently, because the debate has shown that they are not needed, have not received sufficient support. In what is now, in these final conclusions we demand reports and this very goods. We require reports from institutions that should have already taken action, but they are not. If these institutions were to act, this meeting would not be today. With these conclusions, we give a mild reminder, say, to these very mild reminders, to these institutions, practically on their knees we ask them to do something. Let us hope that this will continue in these thirties and that it will happen. However, only with these reports clearly will we achieve nothing. It is true that it is clear here that we expect institutions to do everything in accordance with their powers to investigate all the circumstances of this purchase, to bring those responsible before the courts and to pass appropriate judgments, that these institutions will be at least as effective as they are in the case of the Cypriot mayor of Popovic, or the former Kranj mayor of Gross, where they are obviously, as we see from the media, quite effective. We also expect that colleagues in power will no longer vote in the future not to be familiar with the circumstances of the contested purchases. I don't think our expectations are exaggerated. We also expect that there will be swaps in the supervisory boards of the Holding and public enterprises in the capital to avoid buying a 400-dollar share of 3,600 tolar and borrowing loans of 75 million euros as it did. If there is no such exchange, then our godly conclusions and requests are free of charge.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u268	Thank you very much. A colleague of Shirtz, a colleague of Diaci's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u269	Thank you very much. At 10 a.m., the first-signed candidate for an extraordinary meeting said that we would not reach the end of this explicit political problem and would remain unresolved. It is as if, at the outset, there were doubts as to the non-necessity of this work, which we have recently taken into account by voting on the conclusions. This doubt was, in fact, supported by words such as "mild conclusions", "not promising a lot of reports", "we will not reach the end of the event", "unusually, that the National Assembly adopts such decisions imposing on state institutions to study procedures", in short, that they are sand in the eyes and have concluded purely sedition. The purpose of our work, the whole, and only in this I see the objective and credibility of the National Assembly, is to reach conclusions that are a legitimate basis for the continuation of its work, but not that the objective of this kind of debate, which I see in the undertone at the beginning of the said words, is to question this credibility of the National Assembly with such condemnations and such difficult words as have been made during the day. Let me just say a few things. Today, it was about crime, about theft, about persecution, about corruption, about fraud, about the plague, about clientism, about the mess, about the dirty business of pigs, about the billions of sums paid to individuals, about the hens of thieves and so on. Very difficult words for credibility of such discussions, which should be directed in a more constructive direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u270	As you vote, you've forgotten to say. Please say this because it is intended to explain the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u271	Of course, I will support, including the fourth additional decision that was not in the basic law that the Committee has drawn.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u272	He's a friend of Diaci's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u273	Thank you for your word. In the Young Slovenia Party, we will support the proposed conclusions. Today's debate has been going on for seven hours and forty minutes, which is a big one, but little if today's session develops in terms of 'trembling is a mountain, a mouse is born'. The realisation of these conclusions is important, and then we will see what we have done today. As I have already said, we will support these conclusions, even though certain better ones have been rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Comrade Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u275	Thank you. Already in the introduction to today's debate, I said that our Group of Members would support the proposed conclusions of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, where we also participated in the meeting. If we look at the Rapporteur, number 24, where the initiators of this meeting today have submitted their proposals for conclusions, three conclusions, we have added on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy itself another fourth, which is a sign of benevolence to further investigate and enable a full view of the actual situation that has taken place in this regard. I therefore think that we have supported more or less coalition Members the wishes that today's speakers and the initiators wanted, so we will now support such conclusions as they did in the final text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u276	Thank you very much. My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u277	Thank you for your word. In the first decision we have taken or we will adopt, I hope, I will also support the receipt of appropriate reports within 30 days. I hope that we will get these reports and that they will provide a substantive explanation of some things and will not just be, as has been said,'sand in the eyes'. The second thing that happened today was that it was said quite a few hard words. Madam colleague, the Member of Parliament, have been difficult words, I admit, because acts are difficult. Let me explain why I will still confirm these conclusions. Because it is extremely important, based on the research carried out by the Anti-Corruption Office, it is said that half of Slovenian managers are found to be commercial, principal directors, financiers, etc., that corruption is an inevitable part of Slovenian economic space. So, corruption, and this is political corruption, because it's political actors, actors associated with specific policies, are already part of the normal environment. We're used to it, some of us are just getting used to it. This is shocking to me, this is difficult, so the words are hard, and I hope that this country will find the courage to do so in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Now he has the word of his colleague Partljič, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u279	I'd like to say I'll support these conclusions. We are in a situation that is not so rare in the National Assembly. When so many harsh words are uttered and so much poison is spilled, we end up voting in a very similar way. That's how we look very united. I'm going to vote on the whole thing with a bitter feeling, because it's always been on the average of one group of people, and it's like we're already guilty of sitting here, with other things not being proven. You can firmly believe that I would very much like those members of the Liberal Democracy, who will be proven to have acted unlawfully in the process, punished because this is the only possibility that we are ever elected as a Mariborian, but I am particularly glad that this cannot happen there at all, because nowhere in any public company is worth as much as 2% of this money as it works here. But I think we're going to have to deal with this and then we're going to use less propaganda and we're going to get to the bottom of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u280	Comrade Sok, behind him, colleague Barovich. Comrade Sok first, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u281	Thank you for your word. I think today's debate has been very calm. After all, our rules of procedure do not allow us to debate. This is not even the time for a whole number of Members to express their views today. I am very pleased that RTV Slovenia has been transferring this session today and that, if I say so, those who have been affected by the affair will understand that their money, and that much money, over 3.5 billion Slovenian tolars, will be spent in a non-transparent and opaque way and that, I hope, a lot of this money has ended up in the pockets of individuals. I hope that all these reports, the investigation, followed by this debate today and the decisions we will take will also show. People will understand that the same circle of people revolves around these control councils, as our electorates are finally warning us. That's what the media says. How would I know about all this as an MP if I didn't write all this? I don't know where then some of you can see that this debate has been poisoned today and I don't know what else. All that has been said here today, however, we can read in daily print. I hope that the government will also understand these conclusions and will immediately prepare amendments to the laws that will enable our institutions to work. It must not happen that Energetics could buy a bank or that another public company Parking together with Holding could rent huge loans abroad through the Ljubljana municipality. However, these people guarantee that if they do not guarantee the property of this city and that property must be held accountable by the city authorities, not by some appointed directors of these public companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u282	My friend Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u283	Thank you very much. I will use the voice-explanation institute, Mr President-respected, and say the following. The decision of today's National Assembly, despite the long and useful discussion of honey in certain parts, was very slow. Dear colleague Partljič said that after such a long debate we will vote in a similar manner. Of course, because we have no choice but to make the proposed conclusions, which at least begin with something. If everyone voted on the motions of decisions that were not voted on, as in the Slovenian National Party, and supported them, then they would be more specific, more precise, sharper and related to the words of respectable colleague Majda Shirca, they could be washed and excused or accused. Which is, if you'll excuse me at the end, before I say my explanation, hard words touch. On page 3 of the report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, it states: "The findings of the Securities Market Agency, as its representative has pointed out, have been a fraud." That's a hard word, too, but it's written in an official document. I will, unfortunately, vote in favour of what remains, even though I have always and will vote in favour of sharper conclusions if the opportunity arises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u284	My friend Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote in favour of the conclusions adopted, although, unfortunately, the amendments we have proposed would make certain things a little clearer. I'd like to say two things. For the first time, as my colleague Partljič said before, it seems that we will vote quite uniformly. Looks like it. This seems, of course, because it is a way of misleading the Slovenian public. In fact, the Slovenian public said, "Yes, but they all stood up for the problem to be resolved." But of course it's not. Slovenian public, thank God, has a better memory than some colleagues in this National Assembly. In fact, the Slovenian public remembers that there have been many irregularities in this transition, in this plague of transition, where there are hundreds of thousands of people without jobs. The Slovenian public will recall that two months or three months ago, in this National Assembly of the Economic Sub-Commission, it was said that, for example, with regard to Elan, we would refer to this so-called secret contract of Korža and bring it to an end. Nothing has been done about this since then. This needs to be said to the Slovenian public, however, that in the end, when it comes to the so-called joint performance, when we all support some of the efforts, it is mostly just big, big distractions. In fact, there is more truth in what Minister Booth said at the Target, how the feuds in this country are divided. As long as the opposition does not really have, no matter who is already in the opposition, it is that the opposition has this option of a unitary approach, a single number of people who will be able to really control it, then, of course, the conclusions that we will unitedly support in the National Assembly will have some weight, because all information will come essentially sooner and things will be resolved. Now it will be seen, heard, and all things swept under the carpet.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u286	Thank you very much. When you see some that time has run out, then instead of a dot you start working in order and it's hard to break in the middle of your mind. My friend Anderlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u287	I will vote in favour of the updated proposal for conclusions, because the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is most interested in clarifying all doubts, all the circumstances associated with the so-called SIB Bank.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u288	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u289	This is because no decision has been taken by the Liberal Democracy and we do not accept collective guilt and accusations on average, as is the case in this assembly. We had a bad basis for today's session, we had some kind of unprepared material, we had unprepared proposals for conclusions, which requires rules of procedure and which require the rules of the National Assembly's work, but obviously it is necessary to discuss certain circumstances, some events, some events in this country every so long. It is hoped that the institutions mentioned here in the conclusions will do their work as soon as possible and that the National Assembly will be informed of the findings and that it will be able to accept its conclusions on this basis and not generally, to accuse, point fingers, falsely or unjustly, those who have nothing to do with the matter and have accidentally or otherwise found themselves in certain relationships. The National Assembly will carry out its mission only when it addresses certain points on the basis of data, based on proposals based on real facts, but not only on a desire to discuss. I'll support the conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u290	My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u291	Thank you very much. I will support the complementary draft conclusions, as will my colleagues and colleagues from the United List of Social Democrats. We agreed that the issue of SIB's business and possible irregularities in relation to it should be placed on the agenda of the meeting of the national assembly. We supported the proposals of the conclusions on the home working body, and we expected today to focus the debate on the proposed conclusions. In our work, as far as this debate is concerned, we believe that it has helped to clarify the issues at issue. We regret that, in many ways, the general assessment of the situation in Slovenia was also intended, in our opinion, also because of the fact that the situation is far from objective. That is why we would like and have an interest as a coalition party to investigate matters as quickly as possible and as thoroughly as possible. However, we expect all colleagues who today could only say bad things about anyone and about each institution to admit that something good happened in Slovenia with their and our mutual assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u292	My friend Butolen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u293	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support the updated proposal for conclusions for two reasons. For the first time, the amended proposal for conclusions is still better, more precise and more binding on national authorities than the draft conclusions put forward by the drafters of the extraordinary meeting in writing. Secondly, this complementary draft of decisions was unanimously adopted by the Committee on Finance, where opposition Members voted for it. That is why I think the proposal is good and I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u294	Dr. Bayuk's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. I'll support the motions. It is true that they are not what they would like to be, and that is why we have also proposed certain amendments. The amendments came exactly in the process of unfolding this story when they actually come on a day and we face new facts because, respected colleagues and colleagues, the matter is deliberately covered and hidden. Therefore, it is not easy to know three weeks earlier those things that we know today. But you didn't take these things for granted, and the suggestions are the way they are. But I'm certainly really happy that something's going on. One of my biggest concerns is that this National Assembly is moving too far away from its responsibility to control the parliamentary authority that actually has to carry out these things. The fact is that in concrete laws and how we deal with certain issues at all, we are moving away from what is essential in our constitutional work. But it is also true that I regret that some of you admit that you were not prepared. Dear Mr Anderlich, if you have not prepared for the meeting, that is your problem. We have been prepared, we have given our arguments, as the proponent I have also presented them, and, I am not prepared to listen to such things, but I regret it. For the second time, it would be better to prepare, especially to understand certain issues, but not to lose ourselves in a constant defense without any meaning. I will therefore support this proposal in the belief that this is the right step. If we did not take this step, if we did not have this extraordinary meeting, what would have happened on this issue in the first place. Dear colleagues, even less than with these conclusions, nothing. And not just that. If we had not requested, as we have already requested, that certain reports be dealt with by the Bank of Slovenia, as requested by the Slovenian People's Party, the reports of the Securities Market Agency and the Slovenian Institute for Audit, on the basis of the working body, this would not have happened. We haven't dealt with these last two. And we'll get there and we'll stand for it. So, a long way, a small step, but a step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u296	Dr. Bajuk, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have repeatedly warned about this, I cannot give the right to a replica, this is explicitly disabled by the Rules of Procedure. You misquoted your colleague Anderlich. He can't object to you. I can't give him my word. He didn't say that he wasn't ready, that the point wasn't please. [[...]] I have pointed out several times today, among the appearances of various colleagues, that it is not possible to challenge the replica with my statements because it is not permitted under the Rules of Procedure. Now I give my word to my colleague Sponik. Please hold on to this. Comrade Podobnik, would you like a word to explain your voice?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u297	Yes, on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr President. Today, this is the first time that we have done the agenda item under the new Rules of Procedure and it has been shown that the new Rules of Procedure have not been best adapted for such forms of discussion. That is also why the President had a difficult task in conducting such a meeting. When I consulted my colleagues about what to say, we said that somewhere it was written down that hope would die last. We'll support these conclusions with some kind of bitterness. The worst part is when a Member or a Member supports a decision but does not fully believe in it. We're in this situation today. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we have been very conscientiously preparing ourselves for this point. We have consulted a lot with the people who are in charge of this topic. Our appearances were substantive. We have proposed solutions that the National Assembly as a supervisory authority also has over Banka Slovenije. These conclusions must not be an alibi for the State Assembly not to strengthen one of the roles it devotes to being under-emphasized. And that's the controlling role. Being a good overseer is primarily a responsibility; it is knowledge; it is energy; it is obsession. There is no yawn at meetings of working bodies, no silence, but it is a hard study of material, including colleagues and colleagues from the position, not only from the opposition. We ask ourselves: Is it the National Assembly, is it its working bodies, which under our Rules of Procedure have the authority to faithfully follow certain documents sent to us by supervisory institutions to the National Assembly, or have they taken it seriously as they should? Let's look each other in the eye and admit that they didn't. Nevertheless, we will support the proposed conclusions. Unfortunately, some of the conclusions we have proposed have not been given a majority.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u298	Procedurally, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u299	I ask, Mr President: How will you act in cases where some Members have broken the rules of procedure three times a day? This, of course, prevents others from participating properly in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u300	I'm asking for peace in the hall. My friend Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u301	I therefore propose that you, however, place this point on the agenda in the first college and arrange for the work of this assembly to be carried out, because, although you are making it impossible to cooperate equally in the assembly, from extending the time to two minutes 36 seconds to 40 seconds and more, of course not to the others. And some can replicate, others can't. Otherwise, my claim relates to the readiness of the meeting, not to the willingness of any of the Members. It is, however, incumbent upon the proposer of the meeting to propose material and a proposal for conclusions. You yourself know that there was a great dilemma, whether this point and this requirement were designed to satisfy all conditions. You know she's not, but you put her on the agenda anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u302	My colleague Anderlich, if I'm not always successful, I'm sorry, as I already did today, not because I'd consciously be biased, but because I thought I was doing the right thing in that moment, and then I could see my error on the display. That's what I said. This cannot be a reason or a reason to refer to it as a precedent. Otherwise, some skip the clock, which is set for ten, fifteen seconds, I alert everyone immediately and watch that I try to cut into his word as soon as he finishes the sentence. That's why I said before that some dots start to work in subordination instead of dots. My friend, Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u303	Thank you, President. I'll support these conclusions myself, even though they're more misty than they aren't. However, I am quite fascinated by what kind of fight or match took place in support of these conclusions between the United List and Liberal Democracy, as if we had a collective bad conscience. Today, we have also heard that a number of words have fallen, which may be difficult, but also great doubts, that this matter will be brought to a close, that political responsibility and appropriate penalties will be given, but that they will be granted to those who are actors. I agree with some who say there is more responsibility on the United List, in this case than on the LDS. But, I'm sorry, the one holding the bag is just as responsible as the one throwing it. I personally believe that time will overtake this affair too, but I am glad that today we can also communicate our findings through the media that is transporting us, to the people, unfortunately, only in Ljubljana, where they are most affected, that there are serious irregularities with huge money. I hope that we have given someone at least a little bit to think that something is going on that these people are just and exclusively payers and payers and payers and that it goes into money, actually out of their pockets and that they are deprived of a normal life and a better life because some players are taking advantage of them. I am pleased, once again, to say that at least this message was passed among the Slovenian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u304	Procedurally, colleague Janš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u305	Question is, where are the government representatives? There's been no one here for an hour and a half. The theme is important, I'm sure, and I don't know who we're talking to. I believe the finance minister is now working very hard on the balance sheet and selling a government plane, and he has to work hard on that. However, several other government representatives were also announced, which were for a while, and at three times, when lunch was needed, this participation ceased. I would ask you, President, to invite representatives of the government to participate in the meeting until the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u306	Comrade Janš, government representatives are sovereign in deciding whether to participate, especially now that they are not proposing at this point. Their autonomy in this regard cannot be affected by the National Assembly. My friend Kelemin asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u307	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will support these few modest conclusions that remain. Of course, I'm not happy with them, but there are some things I don't understand in general. In view of why the ruling option or coalition in Parliament has been so fragile for years and years, since I have been monitoring it, defends responsibility for everything that happens in this country. It simply does not want the existing ruling parliamentary coalition to assume any responsibility. And you always say, it's not in our jurisdiction, it's in the jurisdiction of the courts, the other organs, the third, the fourth, the fifth, and you're saying that we, the opposition, are interfering with other branches of power and so on. What a mistake, how deceitful it is. Why are you doing this? Yes, but who else, my respectable friends, is responsible for all the conditions in this state, if not parliament or ruling option? On all the issues, including when I raised the issue to speak to the National Assembly about financial discipline in this country, you voted in favour of not wanting to discuss this with the National Assembly. That was last year. Why all the scheming? Each thing that happens in this country is the responsibility of the National Assembly or the ruling coalition. That's what people, our citizens, need to know. This seduction of yours, when you're always talking, is not responsible, is not responsible. Yes! You are responsible for every situation in this country and every situation in this country, which is critical, you are obliged to resolve it positively for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. What you're doing is purely sedition, and I'm just wondering when it's going to stop. I'm glad I could say that. I hope a lot of people understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u308	Comrade Badness, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u309	Thank you very much. I'd explain my voice. Although I will support the conclusions without real joy and enthusiasm, conclusions that are not ideal for anyone are not necessarily the worst possible conclusions. I'd explain my voice with that. Today we had to listen to dangerous words for many hours. And dangerous words can be followed quickly by dangerous acts. It is an old dichotomy, which then appeared on a more intellectual level, a dichotomy between formal democracy and content democracy. The National Assembly is an extremely important state institution, which cannot afford, whether someone is a left extremist or a right-wing extremist or simply under-educated, must be concerned, the National Assembly is not the one who will decide everything in Slovenia. If the National Assembly thinks it can live without restrictions, democracy is not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u310	Thank you very much. A fellow cremator. You're the last person on the list who wanted to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u311	President, I will support the conclusions and I am confident that the National Assembly will do a good job in support of this decision, even if it does so with a majority vote, as it is heard. This tells us that, in fact, it is up to us all to investigate, to determine the actual situation and, as I consider it extremely important, the National Assembly has not exceeded its powers and the National Assembly has behaved with dignity. He behaved with dignity in this direction that he did not intervene, although there were attempts, of course, and directed state institutions to do what they should do, but only asked and proposed them. But for me, all these requests and all these suggestions have more morally than just that. They have a request for each other. I'm sure all these organs will do it. That's why I think these conclusions are good, and that's why every word is superfluous. Someone may be dissatisfied, but basically the National Assembly will take good decisions and binding conclusions, although it does not say anywhere that these words give rise to the fact that someone actually has to do so. When we meet with all the reports because the deadlines are listed, we will probably be able to extend these findings and talk about the difficult things we want to talk about or want to talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u312	Thank you very much, fellow Kremjar. Comrade Lavrinc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u313	Thank you so much for saying that. I think it would be illusory to think that with conclusions like those here, or similar, we can provide better and more legitimate work on average. Nevertheless, I will support the conclusions. After all, there is some way to guide the work of all those working in this area. Although I must say that there will be some bitterness in that some of the discussions have also been used for personal disqualifications, in such a way that many of us here could say that he is a criminal. For example, he who is accused would have been convicted by now. I do not think this is appropriate for a serious democratic society. I am rhetoricalally wondering, however, because there has been so much about this crime and about this speech, why we do not have enough trained criminals, prosecutors and perhaps even judges capable of dealing with the crime of white collars. When it comes to human resources issues, it is always first to look at their political foreshadow, and of course that is not good. I have also heard very few proposals on systemic solutions in today's debate. I would still remind you of the latest amendments to the D.A.'s Act, when we, for the sake of making it easier for the D.A. to deal with each other, have adopted a system of regulations that grew up on this lawn here. That is why I plead for judgment in convictions and more systemic solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u314	Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The national assembly will then now move to a decision, namely a full proposal for decisions, as amended by the decisions of the national assembly in the decision on the amendments. I put this proposal to the vote. We're in the middle of a vote. May I have your attention in the hall, please? Excuse me? Objection. Before the expiry of the contract. I took a look at that when you mentioned it, my friend Mamić, that your device is not working. Once again, I accept your objection only because you warned before the device recorded the end of the vote. Can you please try the voting device again? The light's on fire. Then I will put this proposal to the vote again. The National Assembly shall decide on a further proposal for decisions as amended by the amendments adopted. We're in the middle of a decision. May I have your attention, please? 76 present. Just as much for and no one's against. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] Therefore, after more than eight hours of discussion, the National Assembly adopted all the necessary conclusions and I can conclude point 1. I propose that, after a five-minute break, when government representatives join us, we continue to discuss the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the agricultural land law. I will also inform you of my intention after a brief consultation with some of the meeting tomorrow if an initiative for an extraordinary session on the process of the referendum decision has been given. Five minutes' rest.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u315	Dear Members and honourable Members! Let's get back to work. Allow me to make the following notification before we move on to agenda 2nd. The Group of Members proposes or requests the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to be convened by the President of the National Assembly on Wednesday. The President of the National Assembly, after talking with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, is indicative of the extraordinary meeting tomorrow, which is Wednesday at 2 p.m. In this case, there will be a meeting of the Committee on the Economy at 9 a.m. This is a indicative notice. Here you go, Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u316	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. With regard to information, I inform the members of the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons that tomorrow's regular meeting of the Committee in the field in the Hrastovec Institute is out. We will now immediately establish the necessary logistics to inform invited guests and all those involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Dear Members and honourable Members! We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE AGRICULTURAL LAW, PREPARED PROCEDURE. I welcome the Minister, the representative and the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture! The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with first-signed John Spokonik. Does the representative of the applicants want to speak for a further explanation of the bill? Mag. Janez Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u318	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I hope we haven't gotten too tired since this morning, but from 10 a.m. until now, and I am sure that we should consider this point earlier, perhaps it would be better if we considered it in the morning and we had more time to discuss it in depth. Today it is 12 days since we have not adopted a government proposal for a law on agricultural land. There is a twelve-day legal void behind us, so we are assessing that this law must be passed as soon as possible. On Wednesday, after we have not voted on the law, we tabled a bill that is in fact identical to the bill proposed by the Government by opening the fourth chapter, Article 27, where the proposal for a lease is defined, that is, a way of renting. At that time, there was also a meeting of the Agriculture Committee, and I will talk about it a little later. I would like to say that, at this time of legal emptiness, we have information that there has been increased traffic with agricultural land, that geodesists have to take measurements even on Sundays, so that this legal void is probably not accidental. As it is said, we have summarised the Government's proposal and subsequently proposed arrangements for leasing in the fourth section of Article 27. So we have separated both the purchase of agricultural land and the purchase of agricultural land. The priority order, as discussed and proposed in Article 23, is such as the government proposal, by supplementing that the priority order would apply to up to 40 hectares of comparable agricultural areas per employee, both in the agricultural organisation owned by the participating companies or by independent entrepreneurs, as well as to farmers. In the case of purchases of Article 27, we have also proposed the same system that the priority order should apply in the order set out by us that farmers, independent entrepreneurs, individuals and agricultural companies are equal in the rental of agricultural land, so that the tenants are placed in the first place and are also considered to be entitled to the priority order of leasing up to 40 hectares of comparable agricultural land per employee. Here I must draw attention to the opinion of the legislative and legal service, which notes that this limits the maximum. I would warn that only priority rights are limited here, not right as such. I would therefore ask the representatives of the legislative and legal services to come and explain this. In fact, if this is meant to be the case, this is actually a fraud - we are not proposing any maximum, so this proposal is not unconstitutional. Colleagues and colleagues, including the restrictions provided for in Article 19 explicitly laid down in the decision of the Constitutional Court, shall be removed. So this proposal for a law we have proposed is appropriate and I assess that it follows the objectives of the agricultural policy set out in the 1993 agricultural strategy adopted by the National Assembly. Madam Vice-President, if I may, I would like to present briefly the position of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. So, I end up proposing and I say please? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Is he all right, colleague Anderlich? What's up? Okay, thank you very much. Yes, normally, since it is a new rule of procedure, it is also likely that the opinion of colleague Anderlich is important. Therefore, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, at its 20th emergency meeting as a working parent, considered this proposal to be a law and the decisions to be taken after a reduced procedure were adopted at the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly on 28 March. The proponents explained, in particular pointing to the legal void that had arisen in this regard, and absolutely supported the adoption of this law as soon as possible. We have received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and also a letter from the Union of Farmers of Slovenia. The Committee was also presented with amendments by the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, Members, colleague of Alojs Sok, colleague of Franz Sušnik, colleague of Lydia Majnik and colleague of Janko Vebra and colleague of Vojk Čeligo. The Committee has considered the amendments and some have also been accepted. [[The report clearly states which amendments we have adopted and which we have not adopted]] . We've also adopted some amendments to the committee. So, colleagues and colleagues, taking into account the above-mentioned decisions of the Committee, in accordance with Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a supplementary proposal for a law, which has also been published in this report, is prepared and can therefore be decided on a proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u319	Thank you very much. He wants to speak to the Prime Minister Mag. Franci Booth, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u320	Thank you very much. The government sent its bill to the National Assembly, as you know, on 30 January; in March, the proposed government law was considered and not adopted by the National Assembly. The Government has not identified a group of Members before the bill under consideration, which we are considering today. The position of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is that the proposed law of the Group of Members is a good basis for regulating this important area. The bill allows first of all what is reality, in line with the fact that an already functioning free real estate market between the EU and the Republic of Slovenia can be purchased by any natural person in Slovenia and in the Member States of the European Union, with the proposed amendments number 6 to the first article, which then amend Article 23, as well as any legal person in Slovenia and the EU. We are thus satisfied as the country of Slovenia with one of the four freedoms which entered into force in Slovenia on the real estate market as of February of this year. At the same time, the proposal of the law constitutes or sets a priority order which, in the new conditions of the open real estate market, is in fact the only one allowed and therefore the much more desirable form of guidance or, if you wish, the protection of the domestic agricultural market. Our interest, although it is necessary to ensure a functioning market, is also that as much land as possible in Slovenia is in the hands of Slovenian owners. When purchasing, it places the bill first as a co-owner and neighbor, after which it separates the family farm as a target and priority form of farming in the Republic of Slovenia, which is consistent with the strategy and Slovenian tradition and is comparable to all Alpine countries, including the Republic of Slovenia. When purchasing, the sale of land enforces the so-called conservative approach to ownership, it wants to preserve property as a priority, which is as stable as possible. When purchasing, however, the proposal gives absolute priority to current tenants, irrespective of their status, whether they are organised as a family farm, a share company, a cooperative or a limited liability company, by introducing a new restriction on pre-purchase rights, as a priority at 40 hectares per employee. Therefore, a single-employee farm or an agricultural holding could have a priority of 40 hectares, a shareholding company or an agricultural holding organised as a share company, for example, for 30 employees would have a priority on the basis of this law, to purchase 1200 hectares in the order of priority. We estimate that this restriction makes sense. However, it is the same and exactly the same for all the tenants that it gives first place to the priority order of the lease, since it is also consistent with what is capable of being processed into one physical power. Of course, honourable Members, this is a politically extremely sensitive law. Decisions are political here. I suggest you accept it in any case and remove the resulting legal void. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u321	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Vojko Celigoj will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u322	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, dear colleagues! Of course, in the DeSUS Group, we are following the issue in depth, both on agriculture and on the issue of monitoring change and supplementing the agricultural land law. The situation in agriculture is critical enough to deserve careful reflection, both in many important areas, such as: the scope of the processing area is reduced, which is the result of the existing processing area over the last 50 years. The working surface is growing visibly in front of our eyes. The purpose of these areas is to change, in favour of non-agricultural activities, very often for the expansion of settlements, economic facilities and others. The structure of landowners in use is changing too slowly, and we have four smaller farms than those in the European Union, and these are fragmented and condition high costs and non-competitiveness on the market. From here, the unbalanced economic capacity of the accumulation and investment power of natural persons, owners of agricultural land and agricultural organisations, which are already important operators of agricultural production. This issue in agriculture also threatens the nutritional safety of our population. All of this, of course, makes us think seriously about how to manage this sensitive and important national wealth. It forces us to respect in a consistent manner the agricultural objectives set by the Agricultural Lands Act years ago. These objectives must be pursued by all other measures, both agricultural policy and agri-land policy in Slovenia, which must also take into account the frameworks adopted by our country under the conditions of adapting the agricultural policy of the European Union. From here, our concern at the adoption of the proposed legislation on the transport of agricultural areas. So much more so because we are also committed to this by the Constitutional Court and the time in which the legal void works in a non-productive manner and allows the alienation of agricultural land beyond the principles and organised management of agricultural policy. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the proposed law needs to be adopted as soon as possible so that the adverse damage in agriculture does not continue. With regard to the rules governing the order of purchase or leasing of agricultural areas, we are determined to defend the advantage of those who will have the most efficient management of the land. In this regard, we support the proposed amendments to the law and those amendments agreed at the meeting of the home working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u324	Thank you for your word. In the re-examination of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on agricultural land in the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, we find with indignation that the legal void as a result of the untimely adoption of the said amendment of the law can only be a pre-considered move by government parties, which in this way enabled a few weeks of open hunting for agricultural land. During this time it was not possible to control trade in agricultural land, so in the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia we have no information on how much business you have thus allowed all those who would not otherwise have been eligible for purchases. Since delays and complications in the adoption of the amendment of the agricultural land law suggest a careful planned play of Slovenian legislation, which has been allowed by coalition parties, the government's inability to do so should be mentioned in quotations, as you have effectively achieved your goal - this is a legal void and open hunting grounds. Whatever they have been or are intended for by the Ministry of Agriculture and Government, in any event they are worthy of conviction. As we know, the Constitutional Court repealed the entire chapter of the Agricultural Lands Act last March and ordered the agricultural ministry to amend the law by 28 March this year. However, there was not enough time at the Ministry for this, you missed the first deadline, this is last June, you were equally effective at the second, extended deadline, and you did not submit it even October last year, but only January this year. The draft law at the beginning of the year could not be considered by the National Assembly because you forgot to ask the Slovenian municipalities at the Ministry for an opinion on the proposal. Then you came to the meeting of the National Assembly with a proposal following a reduced process of coalition, which resulted in a late deadline for the adoption of a law which has generously allowed large purchases to be made on the agricultural land market in recent weeks without restrictions and controls. The question is whether your uncoordinatedness is real or is it used only to continue your true intentions. What has now arisen through coordination is one comprehensive proposal for a new law, which we still do not know today during the meeting of the National Assembly whether it will be adopted at all. Any law enforcement that is possible at the time of the adoption of individual amendments will also be questionable, so there is a high likelihood that the law will again be squandered before the Constitutional Court. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we believe that it is necessary to remedy in particular those shortcomings which the Constitutional Court has pointed out in the law in a timely manner. We are convinced that you have enough lawyers in the government to be able to come up with a proposal to address these shortcomings. But no! You've been delaying the case, stalling to the point where you missed the deadline set by the Constitutional Court. During the period after 28 March 2003, you have thus allowed unlimited trade in agricultural land and, given the uncoordinated position of government customers, you can expect to extend the open hunting season by a few weeks with today's non-admission of this law. In the Young Slovenia Party, we will support the proposal of the law in particular in order to prevent this unacceptable situation on the agricultural land market. And the citizens are talking about what you're doing, and we hope they've created a real picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u326	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleague! The government's proposal for amendments to the agricultural land law was rejected by us at the previous meeting. Members of the Slovenian People's Party then tabled a proposal for an agricultural land law in the parliamentary procedure following a reduced procedure immediately after rejecting a government proposal at the last regular meeting with two votes. Two days later, there was a legal void or a complete release of transport with agricultural land on the Slovenian market. As of this day, a great deal of damage has already been done on the Slovenian market. The Constitutional Court, as we know, made available to the National Assembly, as legislator, for a year, to regulate an important legal chapter relating to the transport of agricultural land. However, the proposer prepared the amendment of the law at the last minute, as it were. Why - you might answer someone who is with us today. In our view, the proposal - in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party - was deliberately rejected for amendments and additions to the Agricultural Lands Act. Thus, on 28 March 2003, a legal gap arose, allowing the purchase of agricultural land to be made available to all interested parties. There are no more protective mechanisms to preserve the land in Slovenian hands. Although there are no official data, it is very likely that there is a wild traffic in agricultural land at this time. And here we are asked if the government's proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the agricultural land law was deliberately rejected at a previous, regular meeting. We were in a position where agricultural land was not protected. Traffic with them is, I stress, unsupervised, which can take at least a few months, at least. The question is also how many people, the non-farms, have acquired a agricultural land that has no purpose at this time, i.e. this person to farm, but only to make financial use of it. At that time, Slovenia is peacefully risking that the few agricultural land of the first quality in the plane will be lost or irreparably transformed into land for a second purpose. I do not know why no one mentions the proposal of the Slovenian Agricultural Forestry Chamber, which asked the Government to immediately adopt a regulation to temporarily regulate the transport of agricultural land, pending the adoption of new legislation in this area. That was smart, that's a smart suggestion, but no one even mentions it. The Chamber also regrets that the National Assembly did not vote on the proposed government novel and still insists on a smart proposal. If adopted, there would be no damage, no legal void, no speculation and no uncontrolled purchases would be possible, there would be no sale of Slovenian quality agricultural land to anyone and at any time, especially to foreigners. There's a lot going on around Article 23. Who's the one now who wouldn't just swear around it or at least we don't want to be in our client? [[...]] It is true, however, that in this segment, too quickly, senselessly, incompletely and suddenly, we find that among those who could - not as the first - exercise the pre-emptive right, it is not, for example, the congregation. Any one of them. And why the congregations? The municipality should intervene in the regulation of agricultural land, in comassation, in agromelioration, so that they will not be healed in order to be preserved. It went too fast, and it all went together, respected colleagues and colleagues. And we have been reinstated in the National Assembly before the fact that you accept a proposal from person A or accept a proposal from person B, because in any case you have to accept something, but if not, uncontrolled trade in agricultural land will continue, which will disappear, which some will sell, will be bought by foreigners, and then we will actually lose agriculture and land. And what should we say in the Slovenian National Party? What should we say, as my colleague before me, is that we will have to support the law, the law that is about to be well prepared, in order to make legal voids and uncontrolled sales to everyone and whenever it will not be. Thank you so much for listening to me, and I apologize for a few seconds late.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u327	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Alojz Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u328	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! In fact, some have spoken before me, and it is true that the great coalition today has a retrial. At the previous point, fellow Member Kelemin spoke about the responsibility of the great coalition. It's a responsibility and you haven't taken responsibility seriously. On 29 March, as has already been said to me, for illogical, seemingly illogical reasons, you rejected the amendment of the Law on Agricultural Lands, after thoroughly rejecting it with your amendments. I believe that, in fact, the entire ruling coalition, not only the parties that helped to reject this change, benefited from this, says the LDS and the United List, but also the Slovenian People's Party, which was to the end, until the deadline that expired on 28 March, with the amendment of this so important law. So in the opposition, we are convinced that it was a conscious and planned action. And if I take into account a letter sent by the Ministry to all administrative units in which you write in paragraph 3 that administrative units must inform all sellers by this letter that Article 23 of the Act has expired and that the legal transaction can be concluded before the 30-day deadline, without the approval of the legal transaction. You warn them that only a bond code must be taken into account. This was sent by the Ministry of Agriculture to all administrative units. To talk about 3,500 investors waiting for purchase [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Then you'll get the word! Please, Madam President, if you can create so many lines that I can say to the end, and they will not interrupt me during the debate, because they are here on my right and my left. So it's just that you've made it possible for certain who are on the basis of, I believe that insider information has been waiting for this to be done peacefully now. And, Mrs Lidija Majnik, you who are laughing at this as first-signed, have contributed last time to it. Now, as much time as I have left to touch on this new proposal. This new proposal, which was then tabled by the People's Party in such a vehement manner in its apology, and for which the media have written that it is not significantly different from the government proposal, differs considerably. See, first of all, in Articles 20 and 22, you deleted those provisions of the law that talk about how the price is determined. In fact, in the previous law it was that if the price is too high, then the administrative unit can set the price and set the price, if the price is not fixed, then a series of pre-purchase beneficiaries will not help you much, because the price will be the one that dictates and determines the pre-emptive beneficiaries. So if you think we're ready to sit down in the opposition, then I have to tell you that we're not. I don't know why, but this was voted on the committee and the amendment proposed by the Slovenian People's Party. Secondly, this law is in some way reintroduces the land maximum, and I must say that in New Slovenia we deeply agree, because most European Union countries have the legal maximum of land. And if, despite the Constitutional Court's decision, Slovenia would not have this, it would be, in my opinion, that very few agricultural land available has been released, fully liberalised and made available, especially if this amendment, which is again proposed by the three LDS Members' Groups, is the United List and DeSus. We will decide on this law in accordance with the amendments adopted. At this point, I can say that if this amendment proposed by the LDS, the United List and DeSus, which ranks third among the pre-purchase beneficiaries of the lessee, which means, in other words, the agricultural companies that have the resources today, if not their own assets from abroad, that we cannot support such a law, because then this is really just a remnant of what the government has proposed and what we thought was good, but you have rejected in Parliament from 27 to 25. In doing so, you have taken responsibility for yourself and the opposition wants no part in this responsibility, at least New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u329	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franci Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u330	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, honourable Members and Members. We will support the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group's amendment and the addition of the Agricultural Lands Act. By the way, we do. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Madam President, I would like to ask for a little Namreč, in the Group of Members, that, in view of the legal void that has arisen following the rejection of the government proposal for the majority in the National Assembly, it is essential to remedy the situation as soon as possible, and this makes it possible to make it possible, in view of the priority of purchasing and purchasing agricultural land, which was one of the main concerns in the first proposal, the government proposal, the amendments to the Agricultural Land Act. [[...]] The proposal follows the adoption of a strategy on agricultural development adopted by the National Assembly in 1993 and defined the family farm as the main and key unit for agricultural development. In fact, the essence of the proposal is mainly that it speaks and the heart of the problem speaks mainly of transport with the best agricultural areas and those which are actually in the field of interest for different uses. The fact is that the Slovenian farm is uncompetitive to the European Union farm, four times too small. In the agricultural development strategy, we have clearly defined the family farm as a basic unit, and this legislative proposal also promotes the rounding up and expansion of the size of farms mainly in the segment where it gives it a priority in the area of 23rd Article to purchase agricultural land. Indeed, we are talking a great deal today about the fact that farms are too small. Today much has also been said about this, even at this point in the agenda, to devote a great deal to the development of agriculture and, on the other hand, we find that from day to day there are more unprocessed agricultural land, so we are actually wondering whether this segment, too, is, at this point, saying, leaving the agricultural transport segment to eliminate any regulation, in fact, meaningful and what consequences such irresponsible behaviour of the national assembly can also lead to the development of agricultural policy in the future. It is generally known that Slovenian agriculture is an uncompetitive and fragmented own structure, so all the measures available to the country should allow for the expansion and rounding up of its own structure in Slovenia. One of these mechanisms is also the determination of the priority or pre-purchase right in the purchase of agricultural land. The Constitutional Court’s decision, which repealed the chapter on agricultural transport, explicitly states in paragraph 36 that the National Assembly, as the legislator, has the right to set a priority order because it is in the general interest, in particular, to strengthen and round up medium-sized family farms. And it goes on to say, for this move, the legislator has clearly found sufficient valid reasons to determine before the Fund has been granted priority to the farmer’s border or to the farmer’s nearest farmer, etc., and not to the agricultural organisation. Why not in this context, because there was a lot of talk in the previous proposal to the agricultural organisation? Probably already in the first marriage proposal, which was not disputed at this point, the legislator has found, not only that he is attempting to increase our farms with the priority right and thus to achieve greater competitiveness, but also because it is probably in the interest of the country itself that ownership of the Slovenian land is one of the key values and that ownership can best protect the Slovenian farmer. Other ownership can be significantly more controversial, or the nature of ownership can change significantly more rapidly. In conclusion, we also accept amendments adopted by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food on the establishment of a priority order for the purchase of agricultural land, which confers the same legal right to the priority order of both the farmer, the agricultural organisation and the independent entrepreneur. Therefore, we believe that it is also in the national interest of protecting the Slovenian land and its property that the actual arrangements now defined in Articles 23 and 27 are resolved accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u331	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Franz Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u332	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, the House of Respect! First of all, I would like to highlight something in particular, namely the fact that we voted in favour of such a law in the first vote on the amendment of the Law on Agricultural Lands on 26 March, although it was weak in our opinion, and we have also made this clear, aware of the fact that, unfortunately, it has been achieved, and aware that the non-admission of this law constitutes a legal void and disorder in the agricultural land market. And that's exactly what happened, despite our vote for marriage. And here let it be clear that we missed all the games that still justify the Minister of Agriculture's arguments, from his explanation, when he specifically stressed that this is a sensitive political issue. In fact, this is a very, very sensitive political issue, which has been given exceptional attention by the parties to the government coalition and you have achieved the goal that you have pursued, namely, this injustice or injustice in this area. For this reason, we will support the law, with particular emphasis on the urgency of the immediate adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Lands, which was tabled in the parliamentary procedure by a group of Members with the first-signed John Sponik. I hope that the purpose was serious and that the law was put in order for it to be adopted, not just to be discussed and that this legal void would continue. This is how we understand this bill as the response of the coalition party's group to the event of the last meeting of the National Assembly in March. We support the objectives and objectives of the legislative proposal, which aim to guide agricultural land in the long term to those who actually process the land, namely farms, and indirectly to the objective of ensuring and maintaining agricultural land in production function and condition in the long term. I would like to stress in particular that this is in line with our view, our understanding and our understanding of the application of national interest in agriculture. As I said before, the non-admission of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Lands Act and two days later the Constitutional Court's decision repealing the whole third chapter of the Agricultural Lands Act resulted in considerable damage, resulting in some unlawful situation which has been beneficial to all those who, in such a way, have obtained, in particular, speculative purposes at that time, agricultural land which could not otherwise be obtained. The so-called legal void, as it is called, unfortunately does not contribute and is not a good contribution to the functioning of the rule of law. Therefore, and because of everything that is going on, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group, I once again express strong disagreement with the government's procedures, for the first time through government procedures that have not prepared amendments and additions to the agricultural land law in due time. Such an approach and the attitude of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, to the problem of regulating and regulating agricultural land transport is clearly and gravely contrary to the general national interest. In short, I would like to say that this time we will not fall for the support of a legal solution as it was supplemented by amendments and amendments adopted by the Committee on Agriculture. In the case of adopted amendments moving away from such a solution, the Social Democratic Party will eventually reject the marriage proposal, regardless of what happens in the area of agricultural land transport in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u333	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Lidija Majnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u334	Your Honor! The guide for the submission of amendments and the decision at the end of the debate are the decisions of the LDS Group so far adopted by the Constitutional Court and the adopted 1993 agricultural development strategy, which states, I quote: "The family farm is a basic but not the only agricultural entity to be supported." Above all, we were guided by respect for written provisions in the Constitution, such as the right to private property, land protection, the rule of law and the social state, the principle of freedom of economic initiative and non-restriction of competition. Therefore, while respecting and respecting these constitutional principles, we have not found any reason for the State or the legislator, as well as for the development of individual farms, to take care of the development of agricultural organisations of legal persons. We have therefore tabled amendments, together with the UK Group and the DeSUS Group, following the adoption of an agricultural strategy that respects not only one but more decisions of the Constitutional Court and which ensure the equal rights of those who need agricultural land to carry out their activities, for their existence and earnings, and in particular to ensure the food security of the Slovenians, which is, of course, our interest and the objective already set out in that strategy. This 1993 strategy also records the concern for legal persons and their continued operations, the achievement of an appropriate income level and the improvement of competitive capacity. In addition, we are working with the amendments to ensure that we also care for thousands of jobs while caring for the establishment and development of family farms. According to the Economic Chamber, 3,200 productive jobs are in direct production and 1,800 other jobs in related activities. Of course, it is also 600 highly educated experts paid by these companies while farmers' agricultural advisory services are fully paid by the state from the budget. 5% of the agricultural land leased by legal persons, agricultural enterprises, cannot significantly improve the ownership structure and size of family farms. But it can happen to us that we will have 5,000 new job seekers in a short time. We would, of course, like to avoid this with the proposed amendments. We certainly don't want to put up with farmers and businesses. All we want is for both of us to equalize the rights and opportunities to respect the Constitution and the decisions of the Constitutional Court that have already been issued and to at least consciously not adopt a law that is re-constitutionally disputed. That's the end of it. The legal void was not created by our fault, the fault of the National Assembly, but solely because of the late introduction of the law by the Ministry of Agriculture. Even if I had been adopted by law at that time, we would still be in a period of legal emptiness, since probably the law would still not have been published and we still would not have the position of the State Council that is needed in such a law. The Chairman of the Committee also reported that during the so-called legal void, increased traffic in agricultural land was detected. Although we have not checked this data in our parliamentary group, we believe that this traffic is not necessarily only bad, it can also be positive, as it is high time for the right traffic in Slovenia at all. Restricting the possibility of sale and purchase is an anti-constitutional intervention in property rights or in the right to private property. In expressed fears that Slovenian land will be purchased by foreigners, I must at least remind myself of the principle of reciprocity, which, subject to the authorisation of sales to natural persons within the EU, is also valid and is linked to sales. Feared that Slovenian land would come into foreign hands, however, we should pay more attention, in fact, years ago, when this legislative body passed the law on denationalisation. Indeed, the denationalisation beneficiaries were then Yugoslav citizens. But their heirs, who got their lands back, are foreigners. The law on denationalisation is also one of the reasons for the decision of the Constitutional Court, since it is the largest official in Slovenia, probably the Roman Catholic Church, but also the countesses. Can these be the only ones in Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u336	Thank you for your word, Chairman, and a nice greeting to everyone. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we note that the first law on amendments and additions to the Agricultural Lands Act, which has been introduced into the procedure has been poorly and in particular tabled in a timely manner and would have created a legal void, which we are talking about today, so that the restrictions on transport with agricultural land would not apply. The second law, which was tabled by fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Janez Podobnik, mag. Janez Kramberger and colleague of France Rokavac are also prepared for a quick, reckless and essentially reduced procedure. Why are we saying both marriages are bad? For a simple reason, because both of them are under the law, thousands of small and medium-sized farms will be destroyed and thousands of workers and workers will be lost in agricultural enterprises. This law makes it legal. That is why, in all negotiations and coordinations, we have tried to get the law to be written in a different form, mainly in a form consistent with the agricultural law, because the agricultural law has set the objectives of the agricultural policy talking about it. The agricultural policy objectives of the agricultural law are: stable production of quality and affordable food and food security, conservation of rural and landscape settlements, protection of agricultural land against pollution and reckless use, sustainable improvement of agricultural competitiveness, ensuring an adequate income level for agricultural economies, implementation of the principles of environmental protection and nature conservation. These objectives can only be achieved through the existence of small, medium, large and, of course, agricultural enterprises. Without doubt about what I am saying, I can say that the priority in purchasing agricultural land is a farmer whose agricultural activity is the only activity or main activity - it is only a large farmer. There's no way he's gonna get in the game if I call it small or medium-sized farmer. An advantage shall be given to those which constitute an agricultural activity solely or principally, i.e. in this case only to large farmers. In part, we have managed to mitigate this through the lease procedure, so that it has the opportunity to acquire the land of the tenant, whether it is a large farmer or a small, medium-sized undertaking or an agricultural company. So we also consider this to be a great success, that at least as close to a balanced rural development process as we can, but above all we are trying to pursue the objectives of agricultural policy, which are governed by the agricultural law. We have also tried to ease the traffic or purchase of agricultural land at least so much that it has priority in purchasing, for example, borders, borders, farmers, so that it can expand its farm, indeed it also writes that only if it is its only and main activity. However, it is important that we also give the possibility of being able to exist to agricultural undertakings that are third-placed and can also purchase agricultural land if you limit yourself in this case it will not decide to purchase. Of course, it is all under great question, in particular concerning the agricultural undertakings that have leased land, whether the Agricultural Lands and Forests Fund of the Republic of Slovenia will decide that the leased land will be placed for sale after the end of the leases. If they are placed for sale, these companies can lose their land, and of course this is also the justification for leaving thousands of workers and workers unemployed. We also place the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia as a pre-paid beneficiary in the sixth place, for a simple reason, because the Fund was not established to farm, but rather to transport agricultural land, among other things, and we give priority to purchasing all those involved in agriculture, with agricultural activity; finally, when there is no one interested in those engaged in this activity, the land can buy the fund and try to rent it later on to those who would like to farm. So, with these solutions, we have tried to get at least a little closer to the objectives of agricultural policy, but, as I said, we are still worried about thousands of small and large farms that are going to fail, and thousands of jobs in agricultural companies that these companies will no longer provide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u337	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Procedural proposal, Mr Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u338	Madam Vice-President, I would like to ask if the legislature can explain its opinion. The second paragraph, in particular, speaks of the constitutionality of the proposed solution of the applicants. And I would ask if they could explain it, it was signed by the secretary, Mrs Bitencheva, and prepared by Mrs Ogrinchev and, of course, Mrs Gorčeva. Please, if we can get this explanation, because we don't think so.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u339	Thank you very much. If you allow us to go to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, and in the context of this debate, because the content actually relates to Article 1, to the amendments tabled, and, of course, the text covered by the report, including the legislative and legal services, is usually to give us a written position. I would like you to address the uncertainties that arise in this written position as a question. Because just explaining their report means that we want them to read it in front of us. This is usually not what we asked the legal and regulatory services to do. We are therefore moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments to be led on the basis of the 8.4.2003 amendment review and received today. I am putting Article 1 and the six amendments to Article 1 into the debate. The proposed amendment under one and two is the Slovenian People's Party's Group, under the three DeSUS groups, the United List of Social Democrats and the LDS Club, with a note, if this amendment is adopted, the amendments under order numbers four, five and six are irrelevant. The proposed amendments under four are sent to the New Slovenia Group and the ZLSD, under five of the same two parliamentary groups and under six members of the Slovenian People's Party. So, I am opening a debate on these amendments and on Article 1. Who wants a word? Mr. Butolen first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u340	Thank you for your word. I will not talk, not about farmers and not about agricultural properties, but about leasers who are neither farmers nor agricultural holdings. "The land of the one he is processing" - the password we have heard here today has, unfortunately, never been fulfilled in the environment from which it comes. Winemaking has never been eliminated in our country, nor has it ever been eliminated in the second world. Former winemakers rented apartments and worked on a combination of land. After the independence of Slovenia or with the transfer of land to the agricultural land fund, those workers who had previously worked in the combination were forced to provide their existence, leased land, mainly by 40 or more thousand reeds. Today these people are finally trying to buy this land. During these years, they conscientiously gave up on many things and collected money to acquire machines and to ensure their existence, and they also wanted to redeem this land. Fearful, at least in our country, I'm not talking about a few thousand, but I'm talking about what a hundred people are, there's no fear that this land will go into foreign hands. It will enter into the domestic, Slovenian hands, into the hands of the locals, into the hands of those who have been processed by themselves or their ancestors for centuries. In that sense, I received a lot of calls this week. Some were indignant that the tenants were only in third place, and we see here that this is actually also controversial. Mainly, in this regard, I will support the third amendment tabled by the three groups of Members, and I will not support the other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u341	Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u342	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, I would like to open two cases. First, in conjunction with Amendment 4 to Article 1. I would like to point out that we are renewing this attempt to regroup the congregation into a circle of preliminary beneficiaries. This is for a simple reason because I think this is essential for the normal functioning and development of rural areas and for the enforcement of that eco-social aspect of agricultural development. However, I would like to draw attention to one other matter, and in this case I would also like to hear the opinion of the legal service. The fact is that this bill has not been submitted for assessment or in the opinion of local communities in accordance with - I think with some section 92 - of the Law on Local Self-Government. It's just consistency. The government proposal for a law on the same subject has been forwarded, and I must recall that both the municipality of Slovenia and the other municipalities have responded to the objection that the municipality should be removed from the range of pre-purchase beneficiaries. And no matter what. If this defect or omission has been made in order to prevent the law from being adopted, then I withdraw my part of the debate simply because the law is passed because I can no longer believe anything in this matter. I also allow the possibility that this was not transmitted to the municipalities for consideration, this marriage proposal, also because of this or with a hidden purpose, that we then find a procedural reason for not adopting the law and for continuing the legal void. Look, anything is possible, given what we've heard and seen today. Nevertheless, I would like the opinion of the legal service as to the fact that this proposal has not been forwarded to the local communities for consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u343	Thank you very much. In order, if I saw my hands correctly, first Mr. Kebric, then Mr. Juban, then Mr. Sok. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u344	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, your escorts and colleagues! I will define what is simple in the first article of the first three amendments. Those who think or know that agricultural policy is close to us - either with heart or knowledge, knowledge - we have such and different connections and I say we are familiar with this agricultural policy. I must say with determination that agricultural policy is not the only political issue or this bill. Far from it. For agricultural policy, the economy is equally important, but I will not mention all others, but especially the national interest. If we look at the economic aspect, we know how many people are involved in agriculture and how much this agriculture contributes to our country's social gross product. I advocate the fact that concentration is essential, so to speak, to increase the area of agricultural land, because such fragmentation cannot be of any benefit, except for the individual who has his weekend there. The other thing is, I don't know the country in Europe, except one that without war and without another increases its agricultural area; this is the Netherlands, which is drying the sea and so on, and our agricultural area will be smaller and smaller by building infrastructures such as apartments such as roads and everything else. That is to say, if we have all this before our eyes, then these first three articles or the first amendment to the first article are logical and I will therefore support them. The fact is, however, that we remain a priority in what we are interested in. We are interested in the purchase of land, in particular with farmers, or in cooperatives, agrocombinates, as they are classified by priority list, as we suggest, those who will increase their surface area and live on it. Far from ever supporting congregations as a priority. Tell me which congregation or congregation officials will deal with agriculture and farmland! Nonsense! The second is that we must give the earth to the one who primarily uses it and processes it to live off this earth. And this is the intention of this law that we want to increase the surface as much as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, fear of foreigners is, in other words, an invention for the population or the popularity of certain. Tell me which stranger will come here and work the land here! In fact, I'd like to buy some land to build a weekend or something, but we have other laws to prevent such things. And the other thing is, under the terms "fews" who already have our own, I'll say, magnanimity after denationalisation, of course, is interested in getting something else. But the main problem is that we have introduced a fuse - that it has to process itself and that it has to live out of it, because we no longer want our people and residents to be in agriculture, as they used to say, dentists, tabers and so on. If we accept these three amendments, then I'm sure we'll achieve what we want. I believe that other laws will come on the wallpaper or the agenda for agricultural policy, and we will have many opportunities at that time to express our national interest and knowledge and knowledge of agricultural policy and everything that is going on here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Allow me to explain his question before I give the floor to Mr Juban. In fact, it is a matter of applying the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in previous proceedings, namely that, given that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Lands has already been made known to the EPA 758/III local communities and that the proposed law does not modify the provisions relating to municipalities in any way, an assessment was made of the professional services of the National Assembly that this proposal for a law which took account of the same content does not need to be sent back to the local communities. So much for the explanation. Mr. Juban has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u346	Thank you very much. In my debate, I may first answer my colleague Sušnik. I don't think I'd mind business. It is true that in this order of priority beneficiaries in the purchase of agricultural land there are no municipalities, but I hope that we are thinking about the same thing, that through the construction law the municipalities are already so resolved that in all lands where they have an interest in developing anything other than agricultural activity, they have the possibility to reserve land from real estate. The problem is that some municipalities, of course, now the matter has fallen into the water because colleagues are no longer interested, and in some municipalities the matter is simplified and declared as priority stakeholders in all properties and people have to rumble at the municipality for every matter sold in this case as agricultural land. This was also the reason that all these amendments that were made, including the basic bill of law, are without the congregations, because in my opinion the congregations are adequately resolved through another law and can solve all the spatial problems on land, which then, of course, are recategorized to unwalled building sites or whatever we call them, for their needs to develop the congregation as such. The second thing I want to say is, this is a big insight into hunting for agricultural land. Agricultural land from a profitable point of view is not at all interesting. If you use them for a basic activity, the deposit is refunded if you compare it to a 100-year lease, at one average price of 1 million or 1.5 million per ha, if more, so much later, with a net profit per unit of area probably a few times earlier, less than 20, 30 years from now. But it is true that many speculate at this time to use them for other purposes. Because you have criticized this story, fellow mayors, but now I as mayor do not mean anything bad, and there is no longer anyone who has talked about it, and the municipalities here have the authority to say if there will be something else in their municipality on agricultural land than agricultural activity. From my experience, this kind of speculation has dissipated many. For example, on the highway route, which had not yet been scheduled, many purchased agricultural land, perhaps above the price, because the route had changed, they went bankrupt later. I'm afraid this will happen to some of them, and they'll blame themselves, not me, because it's a legal void. There may also be a few stings because we are running on agricultural land too much red tape. As a result, some of the law's solutions are such that this bureaucracy is partially reduced, and I think that if we adopt this law at least with some of the solutions that are here, bureaucracy or procedures and flight from the office to the office will be less than it was in the past. We're at Article 1. I will support the first four amendments under Article 1, and I have an opinion on the following, and I will then identify myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Mr Juban, there is an open debate on all amendments and on Article 1 as a whole, so that no later definition will be possible, so that the debate on all amendments is now under way. Allow me to tell you in advance that you will be able to prepare, they have notified themselves, first of all Mr Sok, Mr Kangler, Mr Rokavec and Mr Malovre. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u348	Thank you for your word. I would like to discuss, first of all, the amendment under order number 3. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Agriculture has already rejected twice the substantive amendment that has been written and re-proposed here. In the Committee on Agriculture, with the help of the government, which is a more observer here, we discussed this a lot and with certain arguments this amendment was rejected twice. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the strategy for the development of Slovenian agriculture was written down, the State adopted this strategy in 1993 and the strategy states that the main agricultural producer in the Republic of Slovenia is a family farm. It is said that legislation in this area should also be geared towards this strategy, otherwise what happens to Dr. Bayuk several times, although it seems to be unsuccessful, points out that there is a gap between words and actions. I am very sorry that the government or the minister here says that there is no government position on this proposal, but that only the position of the Ministry supporting the law, whatever the law will be adopted, is available. I would like to tell you that the order proposed by the government in the previous law is appropriate and, if you look at legislation in the European Union, most countries have adopted legislation giving priority to those involved in agriculture, and these are, of course, individual farmers, ahead of others. However, if this amendment is adopted, the landowner will, of course, be highly listed on the list of pre-purchase beneficiaries. Who is meant by this leaser of agricultural land? Not as you did, colleague Butolen, you understood, because what you understood and compared to the situation in the field of winemaking, at least a while ago, they were not tenants, but tenants. The tenant was someone else. He was a tenant, I don't know if it's still called that, but his time was this agricultural combination of Ptuj. They have lease contracts concluded in 2003. When this law is passed, these same tenants will have the right to extend this lease - this is what this is about. If the Liberal Democracy and the United List suggested that workers working on these surfaces had some kind of preliminary right, that would be acceptable, that would be a solution. You simply suggest that agricultural enterprises reach these lands. And you're saying there's no fear of strangers reaching Slovenian land. Of course, because they will not directly purchase Slovenian land; but it may happen that they will buy companies that will own agricultural land and will thus tell you that there are already some indications that certain foreign companies will thus reach Slovenian land. [[...]] I don't want to name any company here, but I have information that matters are being prepared in this direction. In fact, this amendment, I estimate, is very dangerous and it is an extremely sensitive issue, including, if you like, the existence of Slovenian countryside and Slovenian identity at the time of entry into the European Union. However, it is obvious that the government here is speculating, acting as a "declared" ensemble and that we cannot stop it in the opposition and you will decide as you decide, and of course take on the great responsibility that can also be expected on this basis. So much for amendment number three. We will not accept this amendment in New Slovenia. We believe that the government solution, which was in the previous law and is also now proposed through the three members of the Slovenian People's Party, is much more appropriate and more protective of the Slovenian agricultural area. Let me briefly explain the amendment under number 4 and the amendment under number 5. The amendment under number 4 proposes to be among the pre-purchase beneficiaries - of course, if the amendment under number 3 is not adopted, because if it is, it will become irrelevant - even the municipality. What my colleague, Juban, said otherwise, maintains that this is regulated by the law on space regulation. However, it may be that some municipalities will define their entire area as an area of interest for the purchase of real estate and will only increase bureaucratic procedures but not reduce them. This amendment, of course, reduces this possibility to those properties that municipalities would need for their development programmes. It is primarily what some municipalities have as a problem that they cannot buy land in water - laden areas. And maybe there's another reason I could give him. And the fifth amendment that says, "a farmer with less agricultural land..." It happens that two farmers have the same pre-primary entitlement. Which farmer, then, is entitled to purchase land? It would be logical to write in the law that one who has less agricultural land. This is simply a summary, I think the two European countries have such a solution, and Spain, I think Hungary, and this is summed up from this programme. So much for that. I also say this, that in the New Slovenia Group, if the amendment under number 3 is adopted, we will not vote in favour of the law, because we do not want to bear responsibility for all the consequences this amendment will have for agricultural land. I also say that today these tenants have the goals of this amendment and which they have also written - they have written it and you have only signed it - that these tenants today have the best Slovenian land in the best parcels. that these are mixed land and that, of course, our farmers will not be able to increase the size of agricultural land in the future due to such solutions. Even today, many farmers are overburdened by the head of large livestock, depending on the GUGE on their surfaces. It is essential, therefore, that we give Slovenian farmers the opportunity to acquire more agricultural land at the time of their entry into the EU, or that they may reduce their livestock stock to the areas they own. I think the Ministry of Agriculture could say much more about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u349	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u350	Thank you for your word. I had no intention of calling at this point of the agenda, because more or less of the opinion I have has been expressed by my fellow Members. However, when I listened to my friend, Mr Gabriel Ivan, when he spoke about these amendments, I must quickly say that if my fellow Member came from the same end, he would be very happy to see his fellow Member in Shentil near Pohorc's Pohorc's Song, what was the problem. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Europe is at the door. The problem with the Slovenian farmer is that he has no land to expand his activity and has no money to acquire agricultural land. The biggest problem is that. When you decide today and support these amendments, you will also assume the responsibility at the same time that in five or ten years you will have ten thousand more social problems in the Republic of Slovenia, which will be at the expense of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Ask a few questions about the neighbouring countries that are members of the European Union, what it looks like when these things happen when you get into this wheel that runs in the European Union. I come from such places where Slovenian agriculture, Slovenian peasant from the valley was suppressed at the time of communism on the outskirts of the Slovenian Mountains, and Slovenian mountains with a few hectares of land, this colleague Pohorec knows well how much his farmer or farmers from that environment can acquire land, how much they have and how much they can do [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] against the neighbors who are two kilometers on that side of the border. [[...]] In this amendment, putting these farmers, who work hard and serve their bread with their hands, alleviate social distress and crisis, in a subordinate position toward others, is one great shame. Communism has not done this, which is what parliamentary democracy is doing now. That's the truth. And I'll say it again. I don't care what proposal and which amendments are going through today, we just have to be aware that in five years there will be 10,000 more social problems. These people who are on the verge of profitability with their farms will no longer be able to do so if they do not increase their intensity, they will no longer be able to pay social contributions and other contributions and will be a burden for the country. That is why we have a great responsibility, how and how we will define ourselves to these amendments. However, if we want Slovenian farmers to be 50 % less by ten years and thus increase by 50% the social crisis and social challenges in the Republic of Slovenia, which will be at the expense of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, let us vote as you voted more or less silent coalitions, DeSUS, the United List and LDS, or by an infamous coalition. And if we couldn't reconcile it in the coalition, it's a great sadness. And keep asking me what the question is. I agree with my fellow Member, Gez Juban, who is talking about speculation. That's right. Speculation is in agriculture, in the economy, everywhere. Even today, before that, we discussed point 1 of the SIB Bank, there were such or different speculations as to the value of the shares. And that's where speculation happens. I ask you whether you are prepared to support the decision that the tax administration will inform the national assembly who did these transactions at that time, where the legal void is. Support such a decision. Then we will find that such and other officials bought such and different land in Primorska. Some will plant strawberries, others will have hotels, and they also need agricultural land to relax in the afternoon on agricultural land, and in 20 years they will turn into one or another land. Speculation is everywhere. But to whom does this legal void serve, and to whom does it serve? That such a law does not receive support in the National Assembly and that we have such a legal void, it is indeed a matter of coalition, not opposition, and here we bear responsibility. And once again, I warn you, fellow Members, how we will vote in these amendments. We are taking responsibility for the continuation of such a and different social crisis, not today or tomorrow, after five or ten years of Slovenia within the European Union, if we do not give everyone the same opportunity, both to farmers and to those working organisations and to all others who live and work on earth in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u351	Thank you very much. I apologize to Mr Butolen, I have overlooked earlier that he has made a statement, namely, to Mr Sok, who has clearly misunderstood his discussion, to provide an explanation in the form of a replica. Here you go, Mr. Butolin.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u352	I really haven't seen any contracts, but I allow people who have contracts to know who they have a contract with, or with a fund, or with an ex-agricultural combination. I was assured they had it with the fund. If that's not true, then I apologize, but now I don't believe someone who's a 12-year-old, then I don't know what it is. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u353	Thank you very much. And now the discussions are in the following order, because I want you to be prepared: Mr Rokavec, Malovre, Kramberger, Mr Minister, Mr Weber, Mr Ptrč. Mr. Rokavec has the floor first. Isolate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u354	Thank you for your word. I will focus on the third amendment of the LDS, the United List and DeSus. This amendment also changes the original government solution, which has already been adopted by the government. The government was probably still based on the adopted strategy for the development of Slovenian agriculture in 1993 on the previous draft law, when it did not support this solution. The fact is that with the amendment adopted, I repeat, we are changing the strategy for the development of Slovenian agriculture. I submit that the lessee of the land which is on sale, which is in the third order, is not on the third order, but is on at least the second order, even if this is accepted. This is for the following reason: the limit will not be known when his neighboring plot will be for sale. It'll only be if he happens to come to the administrative unit and see that the billboard is loaded, that it's on sale. The tenant will know that. The tenant will know this because he will know when his lease is due to expire, and he will be extremely careful if he carries out an agricultural activity, what his fate will be after the lease expires; whether the owner wants to sell this plot or renew the lease. Therefore, I am sure that the priority order of purchase, even if taken under point three as it is, will not be in the second order in the practice of the farmer limit, but will be the lessee. So we have very few co-ownerships. That is why we are giving this amendment an opportunity in this country to buy, in particular, those agricultural land that will be sold, agricultural organisations, those that have money. This brings us to the most dangerous field, although it already says a lot today, it is not a national interest and so on, so that we can bring the best agricultural land onto the open stage and the possibility that, through the organisation of the shareholders, it can change ownership overnight, so that this property can come from a foreigner. I am convinced that the current agricultural land law has been very qualitatively protective in this area. The preferred right to purchase was not disputed with the Constitutional Court. I don't know how many times it's been said. There is no argument against that either. But this amendment changes the strategy for the development of agriculture. We were found to have small farms. We also do not want to give this mechanism at least the right to purchase farms. We don't want that with this amendment either. We want to give a greater opportunity to strengthen shares companies which are absolutely not dominant in the European Union in the field of agriculture. Family farms in the European Union are the dominant. Thus, we are promoting something else, which is in European agricultural policy and which is also the objectives of European agricultural policy, that those farms that are too large are reduced by various measures. The amendment of our parliamentary group, which was adopted by the Committee on Agriculture, also went in this direction to limit the right of priority without maximising or limiting the possibility of purchase. If there is no priority right, it is also possible under our amendment to purchase more. But that's the minimum we wanted in some meaningful way to limit the priority right to purchase. On the other hand, to commit to both buying and leasing agricultural organisations to employ workers, not to go to modern winemaking, which some agricultural organisations in the country are already serving and not hiring workers. A fine example is also the case of Mr Butolen. I do not know what ownership it is, with which the former workers concerned have the combinations in Haloza concluded contracts, whether it is an agricultural organisation or a fund, that is not exactly what Mr Butolen knew in his performance. However, I know that information that this way of operating agricultural organisations in Slovenia has also been present. With this amendment, we wanted to keep jobs in agricultural organisations. What the colleague Weber said earlier was purely embezzlement and lying to this assembly and to the Slovenian public. Our amendment follows that, for the priority right to purchase and purchase, on the one hand, mechanisms should also be set up for the possible establishment of too many farms, on the other hand, to ensure in agricultural organisations that workers can be employed and that agricultural organisations will also have a comparable area as a priority in the purchasing and leasing mechanism, in order to ensure that employees do not introduce "by pass" of winery relations. I am therefore convinced that it would still be appropriate for the National Assembly to adopt a law supplemented by the Committee on Agriculture in such content, with the exception of certain amendments, those which we have also tabled in the Group of Members. This will also show the time that we were right, but I'm afraid it'll be too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Mr. Malovre, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u356	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be a lot shorter than my forerunner. I will support the law, and I will also support our amendments or amendments to the parliamentary group, perhaps including the LDS, the United List and DeSUS amendments with compressed teeth. But I would like to replicate my colleague Gezi Juban, as well as my colleague Sušnik, but not maliciously, more than an explanation. It is a pity that Article 1 does not state that they also have the right to purchase congregations. I'll explain why. In their time, the congregations bought the land that was at their disposal. Within the framework of the wall plan, where the right of the municipality to buy off the physical owners of the land, the municipality often overpays the land because the market value is valid. But farmers often did not want to sell, but to replace the land and the congregations then traded one to one and a half, or even one to two, which is not possible at this time. There's only so much. I will support the law, and I suggest you support it as well. The Finance Officer points out that there is a legal void in this area, which enables good connections to be chosen and allows for the possibility of cheap speculative purchases of agricultural land, which, at the time of the change of destination, significantly increases the price. This will not be agricultural land, as we think, the fields, but agricultural land, which are on the outskirts of cities that are on the outskirts of attractive areas such as lakes, such as the sea and the like, and if legal emptiness applies, we will make it possible for speculators in the National Assembly to do so, now and also in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u357	Thank you very much. Mr Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u358	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I would like to conclude that the proposal of us candidates has been summarised by the Government's proposal, in order. This government proposal probably didn't just come about when someone sat down and then what they wrote. The arguments for this are set out. Undoubtedly, the argument is a strategy of Slovenian agriculture. My friend Tone Anderlich, you find this extremely funny and you're laughing at me when I mention this. I'm very serious. I'm very serious about what I'm saying. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u359	Please, let's not reach out to each other! Mr Kramberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u360	I took it very seriously, nothing after all. Look, I would like to draw attention to the seriousness of the proposal put forward by the Government on the basis of some arguments and strategies. We want to follow the policy in order to strike a balance between existing agricultural holdings; to promote the emergence of new balanced properties and to enable young farmers to take over Slovenian farms as well. When a system is introduced, speculation is prevented. These arguments, which have been expressed here in support of the third amendment, that this has brought rural development, colleagues and colleagues closer together, are not true! By doing so, you absolutely favour equity companies, agricultural companies, so that they can purchase this land as a priority. We will not develop the Slovenian countryside with this because this is not in accordance with our adopted documents. How can you accept or write a professional proposal here if we have a whole bunch of employees at the Ministry who are studying and proposing these things. However, I agree that the government came too late with this document to the National Assembly. That's the truth. The bill also states how other countries have this arrangement. Look, it says that France has a limit of 100 hectares of agricultural area, Denmark 70. In Austria, we have heard how Austria regulates this when we visited the region of Styria, Hungary has an upper limit of 300 hectares, and we would be legally allowed to practically pick up what the country has at its disposal, and "nothing" as we have heard many times. Colleagues and colleagues, this paragraph in the supplementary proposal of the law, which states that the pre-purchase beneficiary has the right to purchase most of the land to such an extent as is determined by multiplying the number of persons employed in the holding by 40 comparable agricultural areas and also by taking into account what is already owned. This proposal goes in the context of this agricultural policy. I would seriously, Madam Vice-President, ask that the Law Service come here to this Chamber and explain this second paragraph on the other side of their opinion. I estimate that it is a matter of deceiving Members, as it is written here. It is clear that the right is unlimited in this proposal, as is the decision of the Constitutional Court. However, there is a limited priority right. These two matters need to be separated. I'd ask if these ladies could come and explain it. I certainly will not support this third amendment, and I also suggest that you do not support it, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u361	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u362	Thank you very much. I think it is undeniable that the absolute advantage of the municipality is determined by the law on the regulation of premises in Article 85, where, on the basis of the municipal decree, the area of pre-emptive rights is determined. In this case, the congregation can also properly and in the right way resolve this preliminary right for its developmental needs. At the same time, the absolute advantage of the municipality is determined by the Law on Forests, which provides for an absolute pre-emptive right in the case of protected forests. The second paragraph of Article 17 states that in this case such a priority order does not apply. Also an explanation, in the case of Haloz, if I know correctly, the matter is perfectly clear. On the basis of this proposed law, it is clear that the tenant has a prior right or pre-purchase right in this case because he is a tenant as a natural person. Of course, if the lease is regulated by a fund of agricultural land and forests, for example in this particular case. Otherwise, it is not at all possible to have it because, on the basis of clear contractual obligations between the fund and the one taking the land for lease, there is no way to sub-purchase, it is said that sub-purchase is not allowed. So there shouldn't be a problem here at all. Maybe just two more things. It must be said that the government sent its bill to the National Assembly on 30 January. Prior to that, for a long, long time, he had been coordinated for a long time, as this debate also bears witness. We can also conclude that something similar has happened a long time before that, and so it has also been spent so many weeks and more. Then the government agreed and proposed a bill which was then rejected by the National Assembly. As an answer that was previously not explained and perhaps misinformation was given. It is true that on 31 March, a notice was sent from the Ministry of Agriculture’s legal service that the law, the previous law, ceased to apply on 29 March of that year, not on 23 March, unless it was lapsus and I misunderstood. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is obliged to provide mandatory professional instructions under the Law on State Administration. On this basis, there have been extremely many questions from administrative units, in the form of e-mail. In the form of e-mail, on 31 March it was also replied. But it was answered that the law was in force. This means, domestically, that administrative units have no role to play in business. This means that transactions are running today, but not through the administrative unit, but on the basis of an agreement between the buyer and the seller. The only obligation here is to verify the seller's signature by an authorised notary. There are no roles for administrative units here. Once again, the Ministry is obliged to give mandatory professional instructions on the basis of the Law on State Administration. That's all. Otherwise, it is the law of the group of Members, but the priority order is then also the government law in purchasing, I stress buying, giving or proposing exactly the same. It was consciously suggested that, after a co-owner and a farmer who is bordered, a preliminary right should be given in the case of sale to a tenant who is a family farm. Because we were confident, we in the ministry are still quite equally convinced that when we talk about sales, we need to make a certain difference from when we talk about rent. When we rent, we know that we have different legal forms - and we will certainly have them for a long time - all are agricultural economies. However, when we are talking about land sales, we are proposing or proposing at that time, it is obvious that a group of Members has summed it up to take a conservative approach and to give priority to family farms because they are more stable landowners. Shareholding companies are also and will surely be a long reality of Slovenian agricultural economies, but their ownership of shares can change daily or be realistic, changes rapidly or changes frequently, and in fact loses uncontrollably faster control of land ownership. We have not seen any point in why other legal forms, such as equity companies and the like, would give a special priority in the order of priority, because it is clear that if there are no other buyers, it could be like a buyer to anyone, i.e. a share company, if there is no sale. Here was the government's position and it is still the Ministry's view that it makes sense to represent a slightly more conservative form, because it is in the interest of the State, which considers that, with the freedom of the real estate market, it wants to maintain as much land as possible but owned by Slovenian owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u363	Thank you very much. Mr Weber has the floor, then Mr Potsch and Mr Anderlich. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u364	Thank you for your word. I just want to clarify a few things about the 3rd Amendment on the concerns expressed by the SDS and New Slovenia Group Members. It will be much easier for you to vote in favour of this amendment if you read the Constitutional Court decision, which is also the basis for us joining this law at all. If you also read the opinion of the secretariat, which very nicely states that the eighth indent of Article 19(3), which set a limit on the extent to which agricultural land is obtained for agricultural organisations, the Constitutional Court found that it was inconsistent with the principle of free economic initiative and the right to private property. So we solve what the Constitutional Court has written down in its decision and which the Secretariat also points out, and also in the part where you mention the size of the land or some kind of land maximum. Unfortunately, the train drove away because the Constitutional Court decided years ago because of the magnificent Roman Catholic Church that there was no need to have restrictions in Slovenia. This is why we no longer have this restriction in our legislation today If you want to enforce and vote for an amendment that is proposed and re-limits the scope of agricultural land, as also pointed out by colleague Kramberger, the legal service in its opinion, that is to say that they point to the constitutional dispute as well as the uncertainty of the proposed solution. The scope of land that someone may own is certainly a constitutionally controversial category and if you want to solve this problem, you will, of course, need to change the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Otherwise, this possibility is not in the law because the Constitutional Court has found it different than I have already stated. But I would also tell my colleague Rokavac, considering he's a cosigner of the law. He wrote in the law: "In the case of the sale of land under the same conditions, among farmers classified in the same place, according to the preceding paragraph, the right to purchase shall be determined in the following order: First, a farmer whose agricultural activity is the sole or principal activity." It can only be a big farmer. Therefore, it is not possible to understand, as you say, that I cheated not to endanger small farms, not to endanger medium-sized farms. They did. We are directly jeopardising them and bringing them away with the possibility of being small and medium-sized farms with some complementary activity, which is enshrined in the objectives of agricultural policy. You just wrote that down as a cosigner of this law, and it's not a fictitious thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u365	I'm sorry, but I don't know if you've been quoted by Mr. Sorry. [[...]] I was not paying attention because I am resolving the question of the response of the legal service. Replica, Mr. Rokavec for the execution of Mr. Vebra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u366	Thank you for your word. It's true, colleague Weber, the only or main activity. This means whether he is a pure farmer where at least one or both spouses are engaged in agricultural activities and are agriculturally insured, or at least one. And you will not give these insinuations here on the placard to the Me and Slovenian public that it is not the interest of Slovenian agriculture to make the Slovenian agricultural property available to those farms that have an open European market, on the free European scene where we will have to fight even more competitively for the survival of Slovenian farms, that those farms that are now on average 10 hectares on average today, as regards working agricultural areas where both spouses are agriculturally protected, or on those farms possibly there from 7 hectares of good working agricultural areas, where at least one agricultural security is not the aim of the country to give these farms an opportunity to increase. These farms are not 50 or 100-hectare, Mr. Weber, you will not sell this to the Slovenian public! This can only be counted on the fingers in the whole of Slovenia! For those we have also placed restrictions on priority rights, for those rare cases, Mr Weber. But we will probably agree that 2-, 3- and 5-hectar farms in Slovenia do not have the opportunity to survive exclusively by agricultural activity. By no means are we restricting them in this marriage proposal to carry out their agricultural activities - and you will not sell this here! However, we give priority, of course, to the priority rights of those farms, so that they can remain and mainly engage in agricultural activities. That is true, and I am also behind this proposal, Comrade Weber. There is nothing else in this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u367	Replica to replica, Mr. Weber, please. Then he's got a replica of the execution of the gentleman. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u368	I'm replicating my colleague the Rock. You've given your own answer, and you've found that someone who has little land can't survive with the only and main activity. And that's what I'm saying - no, little girl can't survive! You gave your own answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u369	Thank you very much. Mr Sok wanted to replicate earlier the implementation of Mr Veber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u370	Since Mr Weber also quoted New Slovenia, I would just like to warn you that he has said two things that I will not say are false. Firstly, the Constitutional Court has in no way ruled on the order of the pre-purchase beneficiaries. The Constitutional Court stated that it repealed the entire chapter because it did not want to interfere in a legislative way. And secondly, denationalisation has nothing to do with it. We will have to make denationalisation no matter what law we adopt or what kind of law we adopt or otherwise. However, as regards restrictions on the purchase of real estate, the Constitution also provides, of course, that, in the case of public benefit, the State may restrict either the rights, so to speak, property on immovable property or the use of real estate. I think that the Constitutional Court, in its explanation, has stated that the opposite party, it is said, the government or, if you wish, the Ministry of Agriculture has not responded to their initiatives with sufficient arguments to take this into account and possibly take into account the land maximum and would not interpret it in that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u371	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber wants a replica of the replica. This is an incorrect statement. What is happening between you now is a different understanding of the same statements. This is what we call the controversy, and we can never really get to the end here either. The purpose of the replica replication is the incorrectness of the indications. But this is not a matter of inaccuracies, Mr Weber, I apologize, so there will be no replicas on the replica now. Just an explanation to Mr Kramberger, then Mr Potrč has the word. Mr Kramberger, the legislative and legal service is obliged, in accordance with Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure, to give a legal opinion on the draft laws, in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal systems. It's in writing, and we have it in front of us. Nor shall he give an oral explanation of his opinion at the plenary session. What you want is, and I have only one procedural option, Article 5, paragraph 66, which states that if the President assesses that a specific legal issue needs to be resolved at the meeting itself, he shall invite the representative of the legislative and legal service to give an oral opinion. But what you want is to reexplain what they've already written. I have to tell you, in fact, they insist on what they wrote. You're not asking them any new questions. It is not a matter of a new legal opinion, but as far as I understand you, I would like them to explain to the Chamber the second paragraph on the other side of their report. But this is, as far as I can tell, clearly written, and they insist on what they wrote. This way, I do not see a business opportunity to invite them to submit, to resolve a certain legal issue. The legislative and legal service accompanying this meeting says that it insists on the opinion it has given in this proposal. Procedural proposal, Mr Kramberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u372	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would ask if you, as President, could determine this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and you would call on the office to clarify this legal dilemma here. The lady was present at a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and she did not say this dilemma, she did not present it there. It is also clearly stated here that the Constitutional Court challenged the provisions of Article 19 and not Article 23, where the priority order is written. That's clear, too. See if some lawyers are reading the matter this way and others are asking very nicely if you can take advantage of this business option and ask Mrs Ogrinchev or Mrs Tina Bitenc to explain it here. We believe that the right to purchase land is not limited but is a limited priority right. That's a big difference. What's in there in the second paragraph is a delusion. So I'd like to ask if the ladies can explain it here. I don't know why we'd make a difference. Earlier, when we spoke at the previous point, the lady could come here very quickly and say and read the article of the law, and now they are monitoring this debate somewhere in their catacombs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u373	Mr Kramberger, I'm sorry, you've been very unfair here. The situation raised by Dr Andrej Bajuk on the question and legal dilemma, if I recall correctly, was a legal issue which, under this Rule of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly assessed and asked the legal service to be defined. It was a new legal situation. Legal and regulatory services, if I may comment on your implementation, you disagree with their explanation. Thank you very much. I very much ask the representative of the legislative and legal service, if she is so kind that the legal question arising from the question of whether the regulation proposed in the amendment by the representatives of the SLS Group in terms of the restriction of purchase does not constitute the maximum, as follows from the explanation of the legal service. I therefore ask that they help us to resolve this legal issue and I invite to the floor the representative of the legislative and legal service, Mrs Tina Bitenc Pengov. I will give the floor immediately, then, to the procedural proposal made by Mrs Ogrinc, please. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u374	Thank you very much, Madam President. In view of the issue raised, this is a misleading opinion in the part of our written opinion, which draws attention to the legal contention of the proposed solutions in the amended proposal of the law. The amended proposal for a law in Article 23 in the fourth paragraph contains a solution that we consider to be constitutionally controversial because we estimate that the constitutional principle of a free economic initiative is not respected. That's one. On the other hand, we estimate that this is a vague provision. To the ambiguity of this provision, this is the fourth paragraph of Article 23, and this paragraph has been incorporated into the amended law by adopting an amendment on the home working body. At that time, it was pointed out that the solution was unclear because, as a criterion under which the permissible volume of the agricultural area should be determined for the individual pre-purchase beneficiary, the persons who, in the case of the pre-purchase beneficiary, were exempt, carried out an agricultural activity or who were regularly employed in that pre-purchase beneficiary. At that time, it was explicitly pointed out that there was a lack of clarity as to what was meant by persons engaged in professional activities with a pre-paid beneficiary. Indeed, the other provisions of the law should also be taken into account, in particular Article 24 thereof, which states which persons are considered to be farmers within the meaning of this Act. And as a farmer, under the second indent of Article 24, paragraph 24, a family member engaged in agricultural activities shall be deemed to be a farmer in the short term. The logical continuation of such a provision is, or the implementation of, this provision, if adopted, means that the person, i.e. within the meaning of the second indent of paragraph 1 - that is, the family member considered a farmer - may also act independently as a pre-purchase beneficiary. Therefore, the question was raised at the meeting of the parent working body, on our part, what is meant by that person who is professionally engaged in agricultural activities with the pre-purchase beneficiary in relation to the pre-purchase beneficiary and those who are regularly employed with the other pre-purchase beneficiary. That's one question. In this regard, we may have stressed a little less the issue of the dispute over the re-limitation of pre-purchase beneficiaries in the acquisition of ownership rights on agricultural land. It was, indeed, less stressed, but mentioned in this connection, given that the debate on the labour force already took place in this direction, but it also went this way, and explicit warnings were given by the members of the committee that this is a matter of re-limiting the way in which property rights are acquired on agricultural land. However, I must also point out that, of course, in the situation where a series of amendments were submitted directly to the meeting of the home labour force, it was very difficult to define fully and precisely each individual solution in the entire context of the proposed solutions from our point of view. In addition, I will point out this, i.e. as regards the issue of the limitation of the pre-emptive right, which we estimate does not follow the constitutional provision on the acquisition of property rights. I must point out and draw attention to the explicit reasoning given by the Constitutional Court in paragraph 33 of the decision, cited in which we have pointed out that any restriction on the acquisition of property rights is contrary to the principle of a free economic initiative. And if we apply this principle to the situation that is supposed to be resolved by the proposed solutions, we need to take into account the fact that such a solution would result from the individual pre-emptive beneficiaries in very different situations. It could happen that at the very starting point, according to the model proposed, some beneficiaries would already reach that envisaged limit at the starting point or even exceed the extent of the acquisition of agricultural land in the purchase process and would thus simply be excluded then in a further possible free purchase procedure; in particular, taking into account the fact that the proposed solution is in paragraph 5 which simply excludes all legal persons from the possibility of purchasing any legal person. In view of these facts, the conclusion of our service was that the proposed solutions further restrict the acquisition of property rights on agricultural land, in particular, taking into account, as I mentioned, the reasons for the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u375	I thank the distinguished representatives of the legislative and legal service very much for the explanations given; I think the matter has indeed been accurately and clearly presented. Mr Potrč has the floor, then Mr Anderlič and then Mr Auschwitz. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u376	Thank you very much. First, I would like to say that I agree with those who claim that property size is often too small to own farmers. Therefore, in principle it applies to small, medium and generally large farms - except where. At the same time, I do not agree with those who say in this fact that it is necessary to do everything or very much to slowly increase the ownership of agricultural land at the expense of the property or the lease that companies have - but I do not agree with this. I know, I agree that, as a rule, the land for optimal property in Slovenia is not enough, I agree. But I would like to remind you that in another situation, we, myself, have argued that this is not true. Because we then warned that it would be wise to limit denationalisation to a certain upper limit, especially for reasons - not because of small farmers, then no one objected to ensuring that small farmers with 10, 15 or 20 hectares are guaranteed, because this is something that, if possible, can be managed normally - also depending on where this land is. And then you said, "No, there's no problem. And the Constitutional Court also said that and even prohibited such a question from being foreseen under the law. Whether this was done because of the so-called nobleman or because it was later also returned to some foreign owners, of course not directly to foreigners, but through, I would say, also to straw men, whether it was done because of the Church as the greatest ambassador in Slovenia - I do not know why, but it was done so. And the last thing I want to say is what I think is a mistake, gentlemen, which we don't want to admit. This is that we are doing everything, among other things, because of the Constitutional Court's decision. And we ask what the Constitutional Court annulled? It repealed Chapter 3, Articles 17 to 25. Article 19 as well. From 17 to 25. It's overturned everything. Because he said that we were so connected that he didn't want to or that he couldn't cancel one, the other, because even a chapter had to be arranged. Secondly, we do not like to say why the Constitutional Court's decision has taken place. It came at the request of agricultural properties. Because they claimed to be in an unequal position and that they were not allowed or restricted to purchase land. This led to a decision of the Constitutional Court. In the context of these solutions, the Constitutional Court simply stated that the Constitution does not restrict property rights, but only allows the law to determine the means of acquiring and consuming property by ensuring its economic, social and environmental function or by allowing the seizure or restriction of property rights only to the public benefit under legally defined conditions. Today we are still discussing whether the restriction is possible or not. This is where she said it wasn't possible. He said it wasn't possible. He said that he did not know the Slovenian Constitution of the agricultural maximum and that it was not possible to introduce it, and he said that restricting the possibility of selling and buying land was an infringement of property rights which was not based on Article 67 of the Constitution. Finally - which is most important to me - it has been explicitly said that the current provision of the eighth indent of Article 19 paragraph 8 is at the time or still in conflict with the principle of free economic initiative, since agricultural organisations whose owners are already achieving the concept of 'largest' completely closes the possibility of increasing agricultural land as a typical form of their basic assets. In short, that's what he said. As a result, it also required that the possibility of purchasing also for agricultural holdings, of course indirectly then also for leasing, be properly regulated. It did not say how, but we are discussing all the time, as if this decision had occurred because the rights for agricultural holdings were too large in this great existing law, and that is not true. They were too small, inadequate, so it is now necessary to regulate this in the law so that, within the limits that the land has objectively, everything cannot be realized - they find some optimal solutions that will partially achieve each of these objectives. I also agree that farmers get more land, and that is what our amendments provide for, but not that only farmers get this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u377	Thank you. Mr. Tone Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u378	At this point, I could use that human to say more than once in the mill, and the question is if it's heard. I did not want to speak if Mr Kramberger did not lend me such a shameful loan, but it is necessary to say very firmly and clearly: no government - you are not excused to refer to the government because the government has not taken a position on this law because it does not support it as such. It is true that the previous law was a government, non-conformity, minister, so there were amendments and the legal void was caused because the Ministry of Agriculture had been working this law for so long that we came to this. Even if this law were adopted at the previous meeting, there would be a legal void. That's clear. Because we should wait for the Council of State, the publication in the Official Journal, etc. So now here, making big stories out of it, it's not justified and it's not right. If you are already talking about the text of the previous law and about family farms - the possibility to increase farms and family farms in accordance with agricultural policy with the resolution, you will still look at the text and see that there was no farmer in the second place and that this will increase the ownership of farmers. Only to my insistence; long, long insistence then in the new proposal you put it in yourself. And now you've been citing yourself as if this has been your policy since 1993. That's not true! No, go look at the magnetograms from the previous session at the point of the agricultural land law! But I didn't want to discuss this until you borrow me for nothing, and so please don't do this anymore, follow your text. If you want the law to be really adopted and the legal void to be removed, then stop stalling and we are voting on this law. That's all. I won't discuss it anymore. But if you want to light up another matter, you can. We will look at everything and find out who had the greatest interest not to propose to the government a law last year, summer or before that, immediately after the decision of the Constitutional Court. Why didn't that happen? Not now to generalize: the government is not there, there is no other. I'm saying that it's wrong to have a feudalization all the time, but unfortunately that's the way it is. That's why it really made sense to make a decision on the text of the law, because if there's anything else you want to say, I'll tell you what's in what's been said and what's been done in the preparation of this law - if you want. [[The ad from the bench.]] Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u379	Please, just so you can report to the debate. Mr. Krameberger, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u380	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My friend Tone Anderlich, I want to apologize to you if you understood that I used your name to no avail, but I was very serious about the bill, and when you started laughing, I thought you were laughing at me. And I apologize to you for looking at me and laughing at me, there was no one else around you. That's why I thought you were laughing at my argument. And I'm really sorry. However, as regards the opinion that Mrs Ogrinchev is respected, I must say that this proposal of Article 23, paragraph 4, was made by lawyers, not by Dr veterinary medicine, but by me as a proponent, but by lawyers, and it is obvious that this is to be interpreted in one way or another. Once again, I will not support this, such an order, because it is not in accordance with the Slovenian agriculture strategy, and that this encourages the nobles, and that they should probably not be parties to such programmes or should not be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u381	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Ashewsch, then Mr. Rokavec. On behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Kramberger replicated because the delegation was appointed. But you can report to the debate, Mr. Rokavec. Mr. Aishovich, please. I'm asking for peace. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u382	Thank you for your word. I was sure that I would not have to take the floor and that today the view would prevail that we must adopt the law in order to ensure that the national assembly completely avoids the obvious, that the party leaves a legal void on purpose and allows for some unusual business, for which there is no real evidence at this point. Today, a lot of demagogies have been expressed at the time of the consideration of this law, mainly by the proposers. There was almost no one who could refer not to agricultural policy and strategy, but to partiality and the way it fits. And that I will be consistent in this kind of debate, I will read one part of this strategy, one conclusion, which says that this amendment, which the three groups of Members wrote to Article 1 and Article 2, are most balanced at this point. Perhaps you could do better if you sat down and finished it in time and wisely. Agriculture policy is a strategy adopted by the National Assembly in 1993 and says the following. Respect for natural property, the National Assembly notes that the family farm is the most appropriate form of eco-social and multi-purpose farming, but not the only operator in this economic sector. In fact, a family farm is set up as a basic institution, but not the only one. And if we look at the amended proposal for a law that has just been voted on by the Committee on Agriculture, it is not clear that there is no one in this country responsible for agricultural production and agricultural production besides farmers. Moreover, the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which was set up to take over former cooperative property in the field of agricultural land and forests, is listed in order of priority before agricultural organisations and independent entrepreneurs individuals. Farmers’ organisations and independent entrepreneurs are in the sixth place. The fund, which in no case is responsible for agricultural production and for eco-social agriculture in Slovenia, is in fifth place. It is absurd to think that some para-state fund that has a task, in my opinion, is surrendering, selling, or otherwise organising the most efficient trust property to use, before agricultural organisations. The next demagogy, which occurs in all these discussions, is that the agricultural land, through ownership of shares in shares companies, can also become foreign property. That's true, but he'll be a domestic law person, so we have legislation. And it is true that no one from Slovenia can take the agricultural land away. And one thing is true, there is no guarantee that the farmer's land will also not become the property of a person of Slovenian law in foreign property. If we only know how much agricultural land is burdened with mortgages also in foreign banks, including those with legal personality in Slovenia. So, all of this is demagogy. The proposal put forward by LDS, the United List and DeSUS is equivalent and still favours farmers, owners, co-owners, neighbours to agricultural organisations, but is much more balanced than the proposal here. Second. After considerable negligence, representatives of the legislative and legal service were called today. I personally sat next to a representative who expressed these same concerns at a committee meeting. She had to repeat here today - I hope we remembered them. Thank you. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u383	Thank you very much. Mr Sušnik would still like to discuss, and then we will go to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u384	Thank you very much. Look, for the explanation of this third amendment, I'd like to say that there's not gonna be any confusion, that we don't understand what this whole thing is all about. First of all, I would like to point out that we are talking about buying agricultural land, forests or farms. And that the order proposed by the LDS Members' Groups, the United List of Social Democrats and DeSUS is yet to be examined with a view to collecting all the forests that are managed by 14 forest economies. There is no need to stress that this is the tens of thousands of hectares of forests for which a concession contract was concluded at the end of 2001 and for which a lease was made. However, to the extent that these forest economies have acquired sufficient capital, it is also clear from the report of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests that they have not paid all of them since 1994 or that these forest economies have not sufficiently paid concession fees, this account has been financially strengthened to such an extent that they will secure the right to purchase these forest land by applying this list of pre-purchase beneficiaries. I am now asking the Minister, he will probably know when the Ministry of Agriculture, through the Agricultural Lands and Forests Fund, is either planning to start selling out state forests. I think that this answer, and all that I have just said, will make it more clear and clarify this strong debate, which is not taking place here in this National Assembly because of a few thousand hectares of agricultural land, because all of this does not mean anything, but I think that the essence of it is all state forests that are currently in the management of 14 forest companies operating these forests. I deeply believe so. But the Minister, I think, will also say or deny, if not another, the magnetogram, that later when the sale of state forests starts, they will know whether this assumption or this conclusion of mine was correct or not correct. I don't believe you're fighting or wasting your words for those few acres of agricultural land, but that the essence of it all is state forests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u385	Thank you very much. Mr Anderlich spoke. Mr. Minister, do you want to answer then? Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u386	I note, Mr Sušnik, that it was not the intention of the applicants to link this in any way, mainly because in Slovenia it has long matured the definition that, unfortunately, the country will lack the so-called protected forests and will increase state-owned forest areas. And I firmly believe that this country - and as long as the Liberal Democracy is in power - will certainly not sell them. However, if the Roman Catholic Church is to sell as the highest official at this time, of course this is another question. But I am firmly convinced of the state forests that it will accomplish what has long been accepted. In some other countries, the country must also take care to increase the number of hectares of forests, normally exploit them in the appropriate form, or have them as protected forests. And that is why this assumption and this hint and the obvious that there is a intention behind the back of this parliamentary group - I believe that is also true with the other two - is not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u387	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u388	Thank you very much. The Fund's work programme does not provide for the sale of any forests. However, it is envisaged to purchase additional protected forests, of course, if anyone is a bidder. At the moment, it may also be right to say here that the Council of the Agricultural Lands and Forests Fund has adopted the conclusion that, at the moment, as regards the sale of any land at a time when there is a legal void, there is a moratorium and that the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests does not sell and does not conclude any business pending the entry into force of any law that will remedy this legal void. However, there is a serious thought of joining the Fund in a certain sale of agricultural land, but this is not foreseen in the Fund's work programme for this year. However, it is a serious thought to include this in the Fund's programme of operations for next year. Of course, if this were to happen, such a fund programme prepared by the Fund and adopted by the Council of the Fund should be approved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal or by the Ministry of Finance and Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u389	Thank you very much. Dearly respected, I conclude the debate at the time of Article 1 and the six amendments to this Article. We are therefore moving on to the vote. We will first vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 1. We're voting. There are 61 of us present. 53 votes against four. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We decide on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 1. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment by order number 3 with a footnote, just a moment to make a note, then I give the floor to explain the votes. By noting that if the amendment is adopted under order number 3, amendments under 4, 5 and 6 become irrelevant. An explanation of vote, Mr Puksic, first of all, please. Then Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u390	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, I will vote against this third amendment to Article 1. But the reason is simple. If this amendment were voted out and given what the Minister of Agriculture also said a few moments ago that they are considering that some agricultural land will go for sale, it will mean that we have abolished the Slovenian farmer from the powers I come from, the Slovenian Mountains, Haloz and Dravsko-Ptujsko fields. With this we have abolished the Slovenian farmer in the next few years - in fact, definitely. The fact is, the data shows that it has about 2.2 times its load. Our Slovenian farmer on the number of hectares of surfaces, tomorrow, when we are in the European Union, if he wants to survive, already has so few conditions for survival, he will have to acquire so much land to do so. Of course, since he will not be able to do so, he will have to lower his herd, then with 30 dairy cows or with 100 pigs he will not be able to survive. However, there will be no way for him to increase the production land by keeping the stock he currently owns, or even expanding it. Therefore, be aware if this amendment is voted to knowingly abolish the Slovenian farmer in the Slovenian Gorica, in the Dravsko-Ptujsko Polje and Halozah, definitely! The fact is that the structure of Slovenian farms is significantly worse, that they have significantly more disadvantageous opportunities [[End warning sign]] for production as well as for agricultural organisations that have most of these agricultural land in lower areas, where production is also easier, income on quantities more and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u391	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u392	I'm really asking you not to support this amendment! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u393	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Rokavec, then Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u394	Thank you for your word. I will vote against this amendment. I will vote against this because the adoption of this amendment also means a change in the strategy for the development of Slovenian agriculture and a shift from the development of agriculture in the European Union. The adoption of this amendment will make the ownership of Slovenian land significantly more vulnerable within the framework of share societies, as their ownership will be significantly easier to move into foreign hands. Last but not least, I am surprised that this time, with the following order of amendments, the Liberal Democracy Group, which supported the amendment in the previous draft of the law in the third reading, finally voted against the law and thereby extended, in addition to the government and the ministry, the legal void in that country for at least 13 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u395	Thank you very much. And Mr. Sok, the explanation for the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u396	Thank you very much. Once again, my delegation will not support this amendment. I come from an area where most of the flat agricultural areas, the best ones, are leased by the Jerusalem Ormož farm company. In addition to agriculture, this agricultural company deals with various activities, mainly trade, services and so on. They do not process agricultural land themselves, but instead they are treated by their former workers, who have been disposed of by giving them agricultural machinery for their retirement, while farmers living on the hillside have larger livestock stocks and have more or less unfavourable geographical relations. At the time of their entry into the European Union, however, they will face another problem. Indeed, they will not meet the criteria required by the European Union, which is 1.5 BDQ per hectare of agricultural areas, because they do not have these agricultural areas today. Tell me how they will come to these surfaces if you accept this amendment, because in this case, of course, the company I mentioned will be, and I have no objection to this company, the renter will remain, but, of course, if there is to be a sale, he will also become the future owner of these land. So, actually, I'm telling you that we are instituting a modern winery relationship for this and this way of saving the law. We're not voting. And once again, if this amendment is voted on, we will not vote for the law as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u397	Thank you very much. And Mr. Butolen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u398	I agree to sell what's best for sale. Apparently, the best and easiest selling of demagogies is in this National Assembly. We've heard something before about the number of livestock per hectare, and then all of a sudden, it's about winemaking. And the number of livestock, the winery, has nothing to do with it. Just because I come from this area, we are Members of the whole of Slovenia, but because the Haloz area has been mentioned several times in vain - those who have nothing to do with it - I will say that I will support this amendment, because with the 3rd point it allows Ordnikov, Strasilovo, Oster Perger, Švabova and that I no longer list the properties that are tamblas to finally come into Slovenia's hands; for the same reason that the law was introduced. So, these tenants - they wanted to convince me earlier, and then I checked, and the minister also gave me the right that the tenants with the fund are not with some agricultural combination, these tenants want to buy this land. And they're not farmers, but when they have 80,000 reeds, they're farmers. And that's why I'm going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u399	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, sir [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Juban, please explain your voice. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u400	Thank you very much. I'm going to explain my voice because most of the explanations, I'm sorry, were such that they didn't even know what it was. I will support this third amendment for a reason, even if we did not accept it and leave that basic one behind, nothing would change completely in this agricultural policy over the next few years. The Minister made it clear that the Council of the Fund is not planning to sell off agricultural land in the coming years. How can someone buy if no one sells? That's bullshit. The problem is elsewhere: in the next amendment, Article 27, where the lease is concerned. This is an interesting matter and there is an opportunity to influence or not agricultural policy in terms of increasing farms. Who's got enough money to pick up 35,000 ha of land all of a sudden in this country? Not even farmers! Pure stupidity, pure politicalism! Nothing will change with this amendment. He was even asked by his colleagues, on the other hand, to have the tenants in second place, not third place. You know that, fellow Kramberger, and Mr. Secretary knows that. And all of us, those who have little knowledge of this content, have found that this article is not so problematic because the land will not be sold. Someone's got to sell them so I can say it again. The problem is in Article 27. That's where I'll call if I have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u401	Thank you very much. We have therefore heard explanations of vote. We are therefore deciding on an amendment under order number 3 with a footnote that I have already explained. We're voting! There are 66 of us in attendance. It's 46 votes to 20. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As a result, amendments under order numbers 4.5 and 6 have become irrelevant. We are moving on to the debate on Article 2 and on the two amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment of the DeSUS Group, the LDS Group of Members and the United List of Social Democrats, with a footnote, if adopted, the amendment under order number 2 of which the Slovenian People's Party's Group of Members is a non-significant amendment. I am opening a debate on these two amendments and Article 2. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u402	This article is a problem. And the whole story that we're talking about for two or three hours is basically pointless. The problem for me right now is that no solution that we have before us is appropriate. In the text of the amendments adopted by the Committee on Agriculture in Article 2, I am not answering the following: this was the amendment of a colleague from the People's Party. It does not suit me the distance of 20 kilometres, which is preposterous mainly in forests, because the law also deals with forests; I am not talking about a maximum of 40 hectares, the problem is that it talks about pre-paid beneficiaries who are professionally engaged in agricultural activities or beneficiaries who have regular employees. These things can be moved and stretched, even speculated, on one side or the other, in one side or the other. I am also accompanied by the story, when Comrade Sušnik mentioned - from forests to agricultural land - that those who get the monopoly of what we submit in this proposal - will inevitably be abused. And also this solution, or our fellow Members of Parliament, of Lydia and Mr Weber, where we will grant the current tenant an infinite right to rent indefinitely. It bothers me, monopoly, this solution is not good. It is true that if we were to open a lease for all who want and deal with the activity, perhaps the current agricultural companies, which we will need for some time, should in some way commit to some of the conditions that we have in the forests - for concessions, even though the present solution is not the best for me. But if anyone can't rent 1,000 acres, that's what I'm talking about. And we don't have a good solution on either side of it, so I won't support any of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u403	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision first on the amendment under order number one to Article 2. Voice explanation, Mr Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u404	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I did not join the debate, but I will explain my voice. I submit that this solution, which is in the complementary proposal of the law, is that it gives all agricultural operators an equal position both to farmers, to independent entrepreneurs and to agricultural organisations, so to speak, to shareholders. In paragraph 2, we made it clear that the tenant is first. But this limit that we've also given to 40 hectares per employee, I think this could be implemented, and that those fears that occur to some would be superfluous. If we do not accept this, and this amendment will be adopted by colleagues from the three coalition groups; here it goes that these shareholders will be leased, and that no one else can actually come along anymore, and that we are legislating some kind of monopoly, someone -- if you want -- magnanimity or whatever we call it, under the cover of protecting people's employment. I'm saying that's not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u405	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Pache. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u406	In the Slovenian National Party, it seems unacceptable for us to adopt the amendment under order number 1 to Article 2. The explanation of the text of the amendment proposed by the four parliamentary groups is estimated to be contrary to the constitutional category or even more, contrary to the established practice of land-user sharing. We will therefore oppose this amendment or amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u407	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Jelinčič noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u408	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will also vote against the first amendment to Article 2. I am convinced that the second amendment proposed by the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group is much clearer, more transparent and accurate than those proposed by the three groups, because in some of the dictatorships, in particular in point 3 and point 2, it is so uncertain that it is difficult to determine who is, in fact, the one who will be able to buy land as the other. In general, I think it makes sense that this matter is being corrected, and although it is being corrected today, it is already a little late, because in the Slovenian National Party we have the feeling that this legal void has greatly enabled some people to purchase certain agricultural properties, forests, which were previously disabled. This belief will likely prove to be correct within a few days when it will be known who took advantage of this legal void and bought certain agricultural holdings, forests or farms. I only hope or hope that there are not too many foreigners and such people who, in fact, are not the world of Slovenian land. Once again, I will support the second amendment to Article 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u409	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. Please, I've been looking at the hall for quite some time, really making a timely decision. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u410	Thank you for your word. I will vote against this amendment for a very simple reason. In fact, if the amendment is adopted, then we will further deepen, actually consolidate the monopoly in this area. In this area, we will consolidate the monopoly for current tenants indefinitely, as said by colleague Juban, and on the other hand we will not actually allow free, liberal competition in this area so that all entities can be equivalent: farmer, agricultural organisation, independent entrepreneur. In fact, we're legitimizing the pure monopoly of the current tenants for ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u411	Thank you very much. Mr. Ashewsch, the explanation for the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u412	I think that if we have supported the amendment of the three groups of Members to Article 1, we must also do so. In particular, because of that famous paragraph that talks about calculating comparable surfaces, either for purchase or for leasing. The paragraph that tells how these 40 hectares are calculated per worker or for those who are professionally employed or who are regularly employed is such that they allow for all kinds of manipulation. I'm asking you, in fact, what is a regular employee? Is this a worker for an indefinite period or is he a worker for a month? I think it's also one month and it's got a contract concluded within one month and all the contributions paid. This is also a regular job. I think it is my personal opinion that there is no reason not to support the amendment of all three parliamentary groups, but it could also be improved, which we have the opportunity to do this year, if there is an appropriate proposal, with another amendment to this law, but we will do what was essential to fill the gap in order to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. But if anything else needs to be fixed in the area of leases, please, we'll be next time. But this time, I think this amendment needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u413	Thank you very much. I don't think anyone wants to explain their voice anymore. We are therefore moving on to a decision, first of all to an amendment under order number 1 with a footnote that I have already explained. We're voting! There are 65 of us in attendance. For vote 39, against 23. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the amendment under Article 1 to 2 has been adopted. Therefore, the amendment under order number 2 has become irrelevant. We have therefore concluded our debate and vote on the amendments and thus the second reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the Second reading assembly has adopted the amendments to Articles 1 and 2. I ask, do qualified candidates wish to table amendments to these two articles? [[No one wants to.]] So no amendments will be tabled in the third reading. I'm asking the legislature or the government, is it possible that because of the amendments adopted, the law might be inconsistent? It's not incompatible. Thank you very much. Since there is no non-compliance with the law, the Representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also confirms the already stated position of the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that there is no discrepancy. [[...]] You want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Ogrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u414	Thank you very much. According to the legislative and legal services, by an amendment adopted to Article 17, when the text of the second paragraph was supplemented and farms were added in addition to agricultural land and forests, that is to say, farms are subject to the conditions of acquisition of ownership under this Act. So this solution should also be taken into account in Article 23, in the forecast text - just a moment, I apologize! - in the work, i.e. in the forecast text, where we have the basic solution at the moment as follows: "In the purchase of agricultural land, forest or farm, in the absence of agricultural land or forest," the same solution as in Article 17 should be added here. Similarly, in Article 2 of the bill, which deals with the amendments to Article 27, paragraph 2, a farm is also added to the forecast part of the text in addition to the forest. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u415	Thank you very much. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 140, taking into account the advice of the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, it can be found that the amendments adopted have led to mutual disagreement. I therefore ask the bill's proponents how long it takes to prepare a harmonisation amendment. The drafters of the law must prepare, in accordance with the fifth paragraph, the harmonisation amendment, therefore [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u416	Madam Vice-President, it is understandable that we will fulfil the business obligation of the bill's proponents. We estimate that in 20 minutes, we would be able to prepare a harmonisation amendment. Every day it is important to fill the legal void as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u417	I'm adjourning the session in 30 minutes. We'll continue at 10:08 p.m. when we're 20 minutes away! [[...]] I'm sorry, then I misunderstood. Mr. Squirrel, I'm sorry, you've been wanting for 20 minutes. At 10 p.m., we will move on to a decision on the harmonisation amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-08-SDZ3-Izredna-30.ana.u418	Your Honor! We continue with the broken 2nd item of the agenda. Since the legislative and legal service has pointed out that, following the third reading of the bill due to the amendments adopted, there is a lack of consistency between the proposed amendments, the applicants are explained - otherwise, we have before us the Slovenian People's Party's Group of Members, but, of course, the original signatures of the three members of this parliamentary group, the drafters of the law. So we have the harmonisation amendments on the bench. Would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Would Mr. Secretary like a word, perhaps? [[Not at all.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] The MPs, the MPs? [[Not at all.]] So I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We first decide on the harmonisation amendment to Article 1. We're voting! There's 49 of us here. It's 46 votes against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And also on the harmonisation amendment to Article 2. We're voting! There's 49 of us here. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Now we can move on to a decision on the law as a whole. We are voting on the law as a whole. There are 52 of us present. It's 46 votes against 4. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 30th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much to the representatives of the government. May I have your attention for a moment? The Chairman of the Committee on the Economy, Mr Ferri Horvat, has kindly asked me to address the members and members of the Committee on the Economy and to remind them again that there will be an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on the Economy tomorrow at 9 a.m., with the same subject as the extraordinary meeting of the State Assembly tomorrow at 2 p.m. on Wednesday. Thank you all so much and good night.
