ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u1	Colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, a nice greeting to everyone! I begin the 29th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you which colleagues and colleagues are detained for other obligations and cannot attend. These are colleagues: Ašić, Cimperman, Chebulj, Celigoj, Diaci, Germič, Janša, Kavtičnik, Mag. Kramberger, Kremžar, Partljič, Peterle, Pukšič, Sušnik, Školč, Terčon, mag. Vizjak, colleague of Cveta Zalokar Orazem and colleague Zamernik. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to this meeting. All present very nice and cordially welcome! First, we will move on to the establishment of the agenda of the 29th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting. I have not received any proposals for withdrawal or extension of the agenda, so we will move on to a decision on the agenda. Does anyone want to explain the voice before that? Otherwise, I will put the draft agenda, as you have received by reference, to the vote. This is the first time I've seen a vote. Please, we are voting on the draft agenda. It seems to me that there are fewer of us in the Chamber than the quorum requires, but we are in the middle of a vote. Objection to the voting apparatus. I think you need more than once. Is she okay now? [[...]] Now it's okay. Okay, there was an objection in the middle of the first vote, so I'll repeat the first vote. Again, I invite colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to come to the large debate room. For the first time, I will put to the vote a full vote on the agenda. We're voting. 46 in attendance, 40 in and 5 in. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the agenda of the 29th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE DECLARATION OF THE ESTABLISHMENT LAW ON AMENDMENTS I, CHAPTER I AND 47. And 68. Member of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. At its meeting on 27 February this year, the National Assembly adopted a constitutional law amending Chapters I and 47 and 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 182 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly shall declare the Constitutional Law no later than eight days after its adoption, unless at least 30 Members request that the amendment of the Constitution be submitted for approval to voters at the referendum. The request for a referendum has not been submitted and the National Assembly may today declare a constitutional law amending Chapter I and Articles 47 and 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Law declares the National Assembly by adopting a decree on the declaration. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Constitutional Commission for consideration by the assembly. As rapporteur, I do not want a word. I ask, does anyone else want a word with regard to the motion for a decision? I'm guessing there's no one. May I have your attention, please? I will read the content of the decree, which we will decide on: At its 29th extraordinary meeting on 7 March 2003, pursuant to Article 171 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia Nos. 33/91, 42/97, 66/2000, and Article 182(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No. 35/2002, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decree declaring the constitutional law amending the first chapter and Article 47 and Article 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Act amending the first Chapter and Article 47 and Article 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at its meeting on 27 February 2003. We're voting on the ruling. I ask your attention, we are in the middle of a vote on a decree declaring constitutional law. 58 present, 54 for and 3 for. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the decree declaring the constitutional law amending the first chapter and Article 47 and Article 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has been adopted. This concludes the agenda item. The National Assembly can move on to 2. On the basis of the proposal for a decision of the Constitutional Court of Justice, whether the content of the request for a preliminary legislative referendum is related to the amendment of the trade law, as a result of the vote of the Union of Workers of Slovenia, vis-à-vis the constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in the light of its 14th anniversary. AND 74. I'm a member. The proposal for a decision was tabled by Vice-President Irma Pavlinič Krebs, who replaced the President during his absence and I give her my word if she so wishes. Please, Madam Vice President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u2	Mr. President, thank you very much. Your Honor! 28.02.2003 The Slovenian Trade Workers' Union presented to the President of the National Assembly an initiative to electorate and electorate the request for a preliminary legislative referendum and, in accordance with Article 13 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, asked for a deadline for collecting voters' signatures. On Tuesday 04.03, the Legislative and Legal Service delivered an opinion on this initiative. The proposer was informed and formally completed the referendum question by reading: Are you in favour of a proposal for a law amending the Trade Act, EPA750-III, stipulating that shops are open not more than ten weeks a year, except for petrol services with a limited sales area and shops in hospitals, hotels, airports and railway and bus stations that can be opened without restriction? Such a formal complementary initiative, supported by a statutory number of signatures, fulfils the conditions laid down in the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. In the same opinion, however, the legislative and legal service, in relation to the content of the proposed regulation as a result of the referendum question, considered that the National Assembly should consider whether such regulation might be constitutionally questionable in certain respects and should take into account Article 16, paragraph 1, paragraph 2, of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, as to whether it would require the Constitutional Court to finalise such matters. It is incumbent upon the law to decide within 15 days. The legislative and legal service also explained its doubts on the compatibility of the content of the referendum question with the Constitution, in particular Articles 14 and 74 thereof. Allow me to present the explanation. I quote: "The economic initiative is free under the Constitution, but it must not be carried out in contravention of the public benefit in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 74 of the Constitution. The referendum question concerns the granting of exceptions to the other rule that trade on Sundays and on days with the law of certain holidays is closed, which as a novelty provides for a proposal for a law. The basic issue of the existence or determination of public interest is, however, raised only for the prohibition of trade on Sundays or holidays, but the question of the existence of public interest is also raised in relation to exceptions to this prohibition, which is also the content of the referendum question. The explanation of the referendum question suggests that there would be a public interest in solving the overload of employees, mostly women, in maintaining family life and in allowing a week-to-day rest period, which is usually those on which traditional workers do not work, and which is the basis of the labour law. The rights of workers relating to the protection of workers in the context of the labour relationship, i.e. employment, are already regulated, taking into account the obligations imposed on the Republic of Slovenia by the international legal acts they undertake and referred to by the initiator in the explanatory memorandum in the paper. Therefore, the actual reasons for allowing the operation of that number of weeks per year are not clear, and therefore there is no clear public interest that would be the basis for such an arrangement. In such a factual and legal context, this solution may, as a consequence, constitute an unjustified or disproportionate intervention into the constitutional right of a free economic initiative as provided for in Article 74 of the Constitution. In the referendum issue, there is an exception to the rules, the operating ban, and a specific location of trade. The explanation does not show why the sites are selected in the proposed way, but it would make sense to conclude that they are shops for which the initiator considers that they must be opened in their nature every day. Why locations have been selected at such a starting point and there is no justification. Therefore, it is difficult to judge the merits of the election. However, we would point out that, as a real basis, the reasons for the proposed selection should be clearly presented, since it would only be inadvertently justified by the public interest in regulating exceptions to the proposed content. However, the proposed choice itself contains a further question of equal access to these sites for all legal and natural persons engaged in commercial activities, which is not regulated in the proposal for a regulation on the referendum issue. Consequently, these solutions may result in inequalities in the terms of the business or treatment of economic operators engaged in this economic activity, which may inadvertently affect the constitutional principle of equality and the protection of competition on the market, as set out in Article 14 and 74 of the Constitution." The doubts raised and so justified by the legislative and legal service provided me with the basis that before setting a deadline for the collection of signatures in support of the initiative, I propose to the National Assembly that, at the first possible stage, a final decision be reached by the Constitutional Court on the constitutional admissibility of the proposed legal solution to this issue. It is rational, in terms of costs, and correct and fair to promoters and citizens and citizens, to put an end to these doubts as soon as possible. I therefore propose to the assembly that the proposed decision be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, for reasoning on your proposal. It is the wish of all the members of the group to present their views. First, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Young People's Party, colleague Štemberger, who is absent. Comrade Valentin Pohorec, on behalf of A, excuse me! [[...]] Would you like to present the position of the parent working body? Please report to the committee - I'm sorry! - for the economy, Comrade Pohorec, you have the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, President. I will give a summary of the report of the Committee on the Economy, which, at its 12th emergency meeting today, addressed the proposed subject matter of the request that the Constitutional Court decide that the content of the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Trade Act is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular Articles 14 and 74. Ms Irma Pavlinič Krebs, the proposer of the proposal for a decision, attended the meeting of the Committee, who gave her explanation a little earlier. The sessions were also attended: the legislative and legal service, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the group of proposers of the law amending the law on trade and the trade union of Slovenian workers. As has already been said, in its opinion on the content of the proposed regulation, as reflected in the referendum question, it points out that the National Assembly should consider whether such an arrangement could be constitutionally questionable in certain respects, taking into account in particular Article 16 of the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, and that before the referendum itself, the Constitutional Court would decide and rule on the matter. The legislative and legal service considers, inter alia, that the actual reasons for allowing shops to operate at that number of days a year are not clear and therefore there is no clear public interest that would be the basis for such an arrangement. In such a factual and legal context, the proposed solution can, as a result, also constitute an unjustified or disproportionate intervention into the constitutional right of a free economic initiative. In the discussion on the proposal for a decision, members of the Committee expressed their views, some discussers felt that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia’s assessment of the conformity of the proposed extensions with regard to the operating time of the shops was not necessary and that efforts should be made to adopt legislation amending and supplementing the trade law as soon as possible. However, the second panel of panellists was of the view that the proposed decision was prudent and that, at an early stage of the procedure for the invitation to tender for the previous legislative referendum, we would obtain the opinion of the Constitutional Court, given that there was reasonable doubt as to the compatibility of the proposed solutions with the Constitution. It is therefore appropriate to obtain the opinion of the Constitutional Court as soon as possible from several aspects, including the costs associated with the referendum. However, individual debaters simply said that they would not define themselves in this way or otherwise. Following this discussion, which was a little wider, the Economic Committee adopted the following decision: "The Economic Committee supports the proposal for a decision on the requirement that the Constitutional Court decide whether the content of the request for a preliminary legislative referendum on a proposal for a law amending the law on trade is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, then its Articles 14 and 74", and invites the National Assembly to adopt this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I still do not see a representative of the Youth Party's parliamentary group in the Chamber. So I now give the floor again to my colleague Pohorc, this time to present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u6	Thank you. Since I have given an opinion to the Committee, which is identical to the opinion of our Group of Members, I will only say the following briefly. It is also questionable whether the initiative on the ground and the possible implementation of a referendum costing a great deal of money for this country could mean a later opening of a constitutional dispute by other interested parties or disadvantaged persons, in this case an economy, commercial companies and others, and perhaps again the question that we have accepted something with the referendum, which has cost us so much and so much, will now be judged by a conditional constitutional court, and if it were to be judged as necessary, it could be otherwise than the will of the people at the referendum, we should change or decide again in a sense that is not identical or equal to the will of the traders. This does not mean that shop workers, especially shop workers, are not in many ways disadvantaged, damaged. I believe, however, that this is primarily a matter of respect for labour legislation, that they do not have the right to those rights which, under the Labour Relations and Others Act, are not fair paid for this Sunday work and so on, and that these issues should be addressed primarily in this place as questions why legislation on employment relations, wages and the like is not implemented as it has already been written. I think that this is the subject of a dispute, because it is not only trade that works on Sundays, it is a lot of other activities, it is transport, it is hospitals, it is hospitality and tourism, it is also many companies, even those in which I once worked and there is no question of working or not working on Sunday, the question is whether this work is properly rewarded, properly paid, or working only those allowed working hours on a common scale, as is permitted by law. I think it would suggest that these issues should be tightened and resolved, but there would probably be no initiatives to implement a referendum on the trade law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u7	Thank you very much. A colleague of mags. Janez Drobnič will present the position of the Novi Slovenije Group, followed by his colleague Jerovšek. Mr. Petty Officer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government and others present in the hall! We are meeting the question of the referendum. This complication and the question and the search for signatures is simply because if we react in a timely manner also in the National Assembly with appropriate sensitivity, then we would not be dealing with these things, and that is a fact. And if we respond appropriately to the initiatives of those who have found themselves in this milling wheel in a difficult position. They're mostly shopkeepers. A key question is what we want to arrange in Slovenia and how. This initiative on the part of the relationship, i.e. the proposal to decide on the merits, is not necessary in the view of the Group of Members, nor is it a matter of any kind after the conclusion of the disputed regulation. It is a question of whether in Slovenia we are prepared to regulate this area as we are expected to do for a post-industrial society, for modern society, for the quality of life of modern man - modern man, individual or family, or, on the other hand, consumer society. The legislative arguments are not valid, let us be clear about that. In addition, we challenge the law enforcement service to take the merits of the referendum initiative, which is why it is neither competent nor paid. This, of course, will be decided by the Constitutional Court. The Law Service should point out any procedural inconsistencies or procedural irregularities and alert us to what we need to do, what we need to do, within what time frame and so on. It is. We have a law that exists that has brought a very big problem to the negotiations between employers and employees. Employers want to gain an appropriate market position by forcing signatures from employees in one way or another. In such a way that they point to a list of who's against and who's up for it. So that the employer can identify them and potentially endanger them in their employment. Such regulation is not appropriate. Such working time regulation is also not appropriate for employees to decide on opening time. I'm telling you again. It cannot be the employee who decides on opening hours. But this is exactly what happened in this arrangement - that it actually has the right to veto on opening time on Sundays, holidays, and I don't know when. The worker must be protected by labour law in fundamental rights as regards opening time. Workers also negotiate in the light of what is regulated by the relevant law, or exceptions to Sunday or holiday work, tariffs, of course, while respecting labour law on rest. From a substantive point of view, I challenge the arguments, as I have already stated before, of the law enforcement services. Restricting a private initiative, constitutional one, does not. After all, we may consider that any restriction in the field of labour law or legislation governing the establishment of trade, regulation of a spatial and back-up plan constitutes a restriction on the free economic initiative. Each such act shall interfere with the restriction, provided that we so understand it, but the constitutional provision does not understand it as such. I am more concerned about the provisions that mean - those are key to us, in our country - that favour and establish monopolistic legislation or monopolistic positions in this society, that is more problematic. If we define some areas where it is possible to open, exceptions, then all applicants, all economic operators, are able to place trade there, nothing is excluded. More problematic is the provision we now have in law that employees decide on the opening time of trade. In this way you will find two stores in the same place, in one they will push the workers and in the other they will press the workers and another another position will be established. The opening time must be decided by the owner, in accordance with the general provisions laid down by the legislator, or by the implementing acts also by the executive branch of the authority or government within the framework of the powers defined by the law. And now it's content. This referendum decision touches on the question of how we will have an order in Slovenia, what we will give priority to. I have already said and stressed whether we want a modern post-industrial society, a sense of the quality of life of an individual or a family, and that some have the right to rest, or, on the other hand, this consumer mentality. All indications regarding the introduction of such a solution as is proposed in New Slovenia by the signatories, in order to reduce the number of jobs, do not hold back. You know that, clearly, as do I and those who are professional about it. Therefore, any saying that this would mean shutting down jobs or shutting down trade is not true; well, stopping trade somewhere, and the emergence of other shops, in a different form, perhaps at the end of only one trader in Slovenia, may even happen if we accelerate concentration. This is a natural process, a concentration, but we must strive as a country to ensure a market-regulated society, a competitive society, because it is also in some harmonious way a democratically shaped society, a parliamentary society. Even so, small trade has fallen due to these processes, and jobs have also collapsed there. Of course, they appeared in other places. So these are the key reasons why it seems unnecessary for us to postpone the decision to the Constitutional Court and to hold back the regulation. I think that we should take on this business with responsibility, the National Assembly, and find a solution that will not be contrary to these interests and employees and employers, as well as our consumers. So we, in the New Slovenia Group, are against taking a decision on such grounds as to send the decision to the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u9	Thank you very much, mag. It's a trifle. Mr Jerovšek, a colleague of Barovic, will now present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. First, he has the word of his colleague Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! According to the Social Democratic Party, the content of the referendum question is not inconsistent with the Constitution or with the first paragraph of Article 74, which provides for a free economic initiative. Indeed, such a proposal, as contained in the referendum question, is in line with the European practice that is extremely conducive to a free economic initiative, but of course it also nurtures this or protects what protects Article 74, paragraph 2, so that a free economic initiative can be limited if such a free economic initiative is contrary to the public benefit. We are therefore surprised that the legal service has not seen that such important values as the maintenance of family life are the possibility of a family staying together at least once a week, so that it can be gathered, is not a clear public benefit that allows and excuses that Slovenia cannot be an island within Europe, which on average determines the opening of trade on Sundays and the exploitation of workers, the mother associated with it. We are surprised that the legislative and legal service is saying and pretending that the rights of workers under the law are already regulated. The fact is that the rights of workers are in violation of the Trade Act, because the solution in this law that shops can be opened on Sunday with the consent of workers does not provide workers or workers with any protection because, in relation to the employees of the capital, of course, they are completely unfavourable. It seems that the legal opinion was the same as the law or the original opening time decree, which, in our view, we have pointed out, wrote the deadline of the capital and the interest of the capital, but it was not created by the public interest. In fact, the interest of this grand capital is those who are rich in gallbladders and brutal exploitation of workers. In fact, the incentives to apply for a preliminary legislative referendum were, in fact, the last opportunity and the only opportunity to seek signatures for a referendum, although we had warned and proposed solutions that would prevent or would not require such a referendum or an initiative. However, the ruling coalition or that majority part was deaf to such arguments. He did not side with the workers, he did not side with those who are much weaker in this matter. However, the current delay, the transfer of such a decision to the Constitutional Court, achieves other objectives which are also in the interests of the ruling coalition. This will buy time to further discredit the Institute of Referendum. In order to give an impression in the public opinion of the necessity of amending Article 90 of the Constitution, the right solution is for this legislative initiative of the population. And that this change and this suspension, the reduction of referendums will be easier. It is also true that the solutions currently in force in this trade law have an extremely bad and serious consequences for workers, but have caused the collapse of small shops in the city’s cores, because in those shops they were bought during the week and made it possible to survive them. And everything we've warned about has disastrous consequences in the image of our cities, in the way of life. This is about, I think, a conscious policy of breaking families, some of the values that have been set up between Slovenians, and we are therefore against continuing this campaign and such a policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u11	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. Kolega Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, followed by colleague Kontič. Please, Comrade Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I hope you won't mind two sentences that don't fit into the contents of this point. I hope, I do, and I am sure that today's extraordinary session will also end today. Because tomorrow I will probably not have the opportunity to see all of my colleagues and the ladies who are in this room, allow all of my wives at tomorrow's feast to have an honest farewell. Because you also know that you are very responsible for what is happening both in the country and at home.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u13	Formally, this was a violation of the rules of procedure and an informally very well-shaped act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! The State of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to have the political and economic system it has today. We've decided on market capitalism. The supply and demand are made by the capital market, forming the labour market and relations between employers and workers. Today thousands of people work in the Republic of Slovenia on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, from hospitals to bakeryes. In the Slovenian National Party, we even consider this item on the agenda of today's meeting of the National Assembly to be a proposal for a decision on a request for a Constitutional Court to decide whether the content of the request for a preliminary legislative referendum on a proposal for a law amending the law on trade is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is our opinion, we have the right to him that this point is not necessary at all. Why? I justify the claim by the fact that the economic initiative is free in the Republic of Slovenia. I submit that any work, regardless of the place and time, is subject to agreement, and any work is subject to agreement between the employer and the employee. On the basis of market legality, which is valid, of course also on the basis of respect for human rights. However, respected colleagues and colleagues, the problem lies elsewhere. The Slovenian Trade Workers' Union says that employers are being insulted and unheard of forcing them to sign their consents for Sunday work, to work at night and to work during the holidays. If the employer fails to respect the statutory provisions for remuneration of workers or working hours, this is now a major problem, they should carry out their work by inspection services or other services and judicial authorities after all. However, since they allow many employers to violate legal provisions because they allow them to act in a fair manner on the market, it is not yet necessary to call referendums, to convene extraordinary meetings, but simply to tell the competent services, inspections and others to monitor compliance with legal and sub-legal provisions. And this point would not have been and the matter would have been over. I mentioned that market legality is also active in the labour market. I wonder who will answer and in what way save the few hundred new unemployed who will surely become unemployed if they decide to stop their Sunday and holiday work in stores? Compared to this moment, I guarantee you, there are at least 200 unemployed workers who would be very happy to work on Sundays. However, since Slovenia is a democratic country, whether the will of the people or our decision is to do so, the referendum will be announced. Now I would only ask if we would consider something on this referendum issue. The referendum question is: "Is it in order to establish in the proposal for a law amending the Trade Act that shops are open not more than ten weeks a year, except for petrol services with a limited sales area and shops in hospitals, hotels, airports, railways, bus stations that can be opened without restrictions?" On the very question, dear colleagues and colleagues, we must acknowledge that the unequal situation of all those involved in trade is clearly visible and that is a violation of the constitutional principle of equality and the protection of competition in the market is also violated, with such a question, I am sorry. And secondly, why, for example, am I only making an alternative proposal to see a comparison, would it not be possible to say: Did you, in the proposal of the Trade Law Amendments Act, determine that stores are open even on Sundays and holidays, by committing employers to pay workers the amount of the allowance that the social partners will agree on? Such an issue could also be put alternatively at the referendum. Sometimes, respected colleagues and colleagues as well as respected visitors, there is a need for a frank word based on the arguments given or only on the arguments put forward. Such, I hope, I have also given myself, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, although it would probably be much more pleasing if I were to defend one way or another the workers involved in trade activities. I believe that the exploitation of these workers is a great deal. I believe there are many powerless, exploited and injured. However, once again, I stress that not all the other supervisory, inspection and other services that workers naturally enjoy on Saturdays and Sundays do not do their work. And, finally, by the logic of the matter, whether we will reconvene an extraordinary session next month and call for a referendum so that the competent supervisory authorities will work on Saturday and Sunday. You can shape your own end. If we are so far away and we are already in democracy, I must say that I am even opposed to any referendum, I am in favour of regulating relations between employers and employees, I am in favour of regulating the legal provisions. But once again, according to the logic of the matter, we will have to support the initiative of the Slovenian National Party to judge the referendum by the Constitutional Court. That's democracy. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u15	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. Mr Kontič will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, followed by his colleague Brenčič. First of all, he's got the word, Comrade Kontic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All in attendance, all in attendance! We do not oppose in the Group of Members of the United Nations Charter of Social Democrats that the Constitutional Court should rule on the compatibility of the referendum issue with our Constitution, although we believe that the referendum issue is not constitutionally questionable. In the debate on the opening times of trade, however, we are confronted with a number of other issues that are fundamentally linked to the development model of our society. It seems important for us to build a country of socially responsible capital, capital, which will be able to assess what is acceptable, even in terms of social cohesion and the sensitivity of society. In Europe, too, they are obviously thinking about such issues when they are regulating the operating time of trade. Virtually all Western European countries regulate the opening times of trade in specific laws or regulations or with acts of local communities. We are reminded of this by research into the opening times of trade that we have, and not least by researching our research sector in the 2001 National Assembly. Countries in which a free market economic initiative has been in operation for centuries clearly limit the working time of trade for reasons of public benefit, without doubt whether they are interfering with the freedom of entrepreneurship. We doubt that they are considering a free economic initiative on these issues, but obviously they are opting for restrictions in their legislation. These arrangements and restrictions are different: from the legal total ban on work on Sundays, from the work permit on a few weeks per year, from the operation of different trades on the basis of activity and from the different operations in the areas to those countries which have almost complete freedom of business time. In the Netherlands, Germany, France and many other countries, trade openings are restricted from four, five to twelve weeks a year, as demonstrated by a comparative analysis of the trade opening time regime prepared by our research sector, as proposed by the trade union in its referendum issue. In addition, it is true that most European countries also have different exceptions to allow individual types of shops or municipalities or regions to decide on the opening time of shops. So, there is no single model in Europe, and the decision on opening time is primarily ours. We think it would be appropriate, however, to follow the German model of opening time shops, if we have already summarised most of the economic law following this model. The United List of Social Democrats does not share the view that the referendum issue is constitutionally controversial. Perhaps the candidates for the referendum have not clearly defined the public interest, but also the argument that it is not visible in anything is not true. If, on the one hand, it is the interest of capital and possibly of the consumer, on the other hand, the rights of workers to normal work and rest, these are issues of rights that Europe's market social economy has built over the centuries and established as acceptable standards of social life. Our Constitutional Court has also pointed to the following principles when repealing Article 17 of the Trade Act, in connection with the regulation of the operating time of retail trade, - allow me to quote: "The economic initiative is free under Article 74, paragraph 1, of the Constitution, but the extremely liberal concept of entrepreneurship would not be in accordance with the Constitution. Therefore, the legislator may restrict a particular form of entrepreneurship if public benefit is expressed, including the protection of employees, the protection of human health and life, nature protection and the like, by establishing specific subjective or objective conditions for entrepreneurship. The Constitution provides the basis for such a restriction in Article 74, paragraph 2, under which economic activity must not be carried out in contravention of public benefit. The legislators' intervention in a free economic initiative is therefore based on the provision of the Constitution, which gives rise to even more than the possibility of legal regulation of restrictions. Where this requires public benefit, the legislator is obliged to regulate the conditions and manner in which the economic activity is carried out. The waiver of this duty would constitute an unconstitutional legal void. However, the legislator's freedom to determine conditions for the management of activities is not absolute and unlimited, as it is bound by the general constitutional principle of proportionality, which allows him to limit constitutional rights only to the extent that, in order to protect public benefit, he has to fall into the constitutional right of a free economic initiative. Savings time represents one of the objective conditions for carrying out a trade activity which the legislator may determine for reasons of public benefit. Therefore, only the fact that the legislator regulates operating time is without prejudice to the free economic initiative of the operators of this activity." End of quote. This is the position of the Constitutional Court and we therefore consider that the referendum issue is not contrary to our Constitution. We are of the opinion that it would be difficult to find unconstitutionality in the provision that trade is generally closed on Sundays. Perhaps the issue could be highlighted by the increased unequal treatment of different economic operators, as some trades could be open and others could not. However, the law would also be the same for all the same kinds of trade. However, the prohibition of trading on Sundays is certainly the same as the prohibition of night trade or the prohibition of the sale of alcoholic beverages within certain hours, but protected goods are another. For all of this, we will not object to the Constitutional Court's finding that the issue is consistent with the Constitution, but we do not agree with the assessment that the issue is inconsistent with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Comrade Contic. Mr Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group and then the colleague Kavčič. My friend Brenčič first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice to meet you all! When we decide in the Slovenian People's Party's Group whether the referendum issue of the Trade Union of Slovenian Workers, which is linked to Article 17 of the Trade Act and consequently to the proposal of a law amending this article in substance, is contrary to the Constitution, Articles 14 and 74, on which the Constitutional Court is to be judged, we shall first stop with all responsibility in the image that is particularly present in the transformation of society in the transition countries and is more and more present every day with us. The fact that a smaller part of society is becoming richer, but a large part of the population is increasingly poorer and weaker. We are convinced that the legislator must be placed more firmly in the defense of the weaker one, especially because of the lack of moral virtues of a large part of the management. It is clear, however, who in the matter is the weaker and, unfortunately, too often is completely powerless. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we insist that, as this is already perfectly normal and only stable in the European Union, the future of mutual decision-making must be based on genuine partnership dialogue, in which case dialogue between employers and workers in the trade sector. That is also how we understand Article 17 of the Trade Act, which we have generally supported in adopting the law. Unfortunately, there is no genuine dialogue in practice in the implementation of this Article, which can be based primarily on logic, I will, because the owner, the employer, referring to Article 74 of the Constitution, is overcalculating with logic, in particular on the originality of this title, according to the tendency of large profits. There is too much thought that a worker is just a consumer material. Above all, the tariff is what leads both partners to face the fact that it is or is not worth having an open shop on Sundays and holidays. The fact is, however, that earnings in commercial activities are still very fragile and already very large for a short period of time. Therefore, investment in trade offers is strongly re-designated in view of the market-consuming capacity of the population, especially in urban environments. Therefore, even with a certain reduction in the margin and rationalisation of business, even through the ability afforded by the Labour Relations Act, it can still maintain a large profit or keep it, if not already, but at least a moderate profit, especially at the expense of the existing employment structure, without a noticeable increase in employment and without a reasonable payment, let it be for a period of time over full time or work during weeks and holidays. That is why employers who are reported by the daily press are already very well present, and therefore, in Article 17, we do not see the establishment of the dialogue that we expected, at least not as we understand Article 17. The constitutional concept of Article 74 of the Constitution, "economic activities must not be carried out in contravention of public benefit", is extremely broad and certainly in the context of the situation of employees in trade if workers, through their legal representatives, resort to a referendum, a concept that justifies their intention or the intention of the initiators. We want to say, however, that the referendum issue based on the proposal for a law amending the trade law by limiting only ten working weeks a year in all trades, with the exception of those changes, is not a good solution. The question is whether it really makes sense where demand is high and therefore the benefits of both partners promise mutual satisfaction and satisfaction to consumers, such as tourist destinations and other centres, such a restriction is truly meaningful. We believe that these dilemmas need to be resolved in a manner that is described or otherwise in the law and that the legislator himself is much more called upon to do so than the Constitutional Court. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party considers it reasonable and responsible for parliamentarians to resolve the dilemmas and content it wishes to resolve the referendum issue by amending the law without prejudicing or judging the Constitutional Court, because we do not see a constitutional dispute in the matter. For this reason, we will not support the proposal for a decision, but we certainly expect that the legislator will be the one to resolve the evident situation through the amendment of the law before the people decide on it at the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u19	Thank you very much, colleague Brenčič. Mr Kavčič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u20	Dear Mr. President, the honourable one is here! In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have a proposal for a reasoned decision. Among the important reasons for such thinking is the very criteria of rationality. By making or supporting this proposal, we will take a more rational path, that is to say, we will avoid the high cost of collecting 40,000 signatures, as well as possible implementation of the referendum. If we properly understand the position of trade unions in yesterday's media, trade unions also agree on a way to resolve this issue, which we obviously still have quite different views about. With regard to the proposal for a decision, it should be pointed out that the candidates for the referendum may not have sufficiently clearly separated the opening time itself from the personal working time of trade employees in their explanations. It is true, however, that the issue under discussion is very broad, depending on the point of view. Of course, we can understand this issue as a matter of life that seeks about 5,000 employees in trade, which means about 10% of the good 12% of all employees in Slovenia or, this is a question that concerns about about 1% of employees in Slovenia. Of course, this also applies to all those employees who are not involved and who are not affected by this initiative, at least in a positive sense not. These are all those who work in hospitals at less favourable hours, work in transport, work as journalists, police officers, and the like. So we're talking about about about 5,000 employees, which is of course important. On the other hand, this is an issue that is important for about 2 million Slovenians, all of us who act as buyers. This is a question that, of course, has a profound impact on the quality of our lives. And, of course, it should not be forgotten that on the third page this issue also concerns a third number of people, these are unemployed, who we have more than 100,000, and deciding on this law also has great importance for the employment opportunities of the unemployed. Of course, this issue is also of great importance to the possibilities of further employment for those who are already working in trade today. If we ask ourselves whether this issue is important to increase the number of jobs in trade, perhaps it is not. Undoubtedly, however, and of course there is solid evidence that the trade law currently in force allowed at least the number of jobs in Slovenian trade to be maintained. We would also like to maintain this trend in the future. It is important, however, that we look very carefully at the aforementioned 5,000 workers in trade, that we work together to achieve full respect for labour law and to encourage the social partners to conclude for all participants the conditions of work that are acceptable, in particular working in less favourable working hours. On the basis of all that has been said in the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have a rather long list of colleagues and colleagues who want a word in the general debate. Dr. Bajuk's colleague first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Our Group's position has already been presented by Comrade Drobnic. I would just like to highlight some questions about what is being proposed here and also the opinion of our legislative service. I would point out that interference with or dependence on constitutional judgment is of great importance and that we also need to clean up a lot of things here, when it is appropriate and when it is not. This proposal actually means that this National Assembly will give up its responsibility and actually entrust it to the Constitutional Court to decide something, which is actually unacceptable throughout the democratic world. The Court's approach to the Constitutional Court's judgment can be divided into three sets: the assessment of direct interventions into classical permanent human rights, the assessment of breaches of the provisions under state law and the assessment of the constitutionality of the so-called economic legislation. These three sets need to be distinguished because the constitutional assessment is different, depending on which of these areas is involved. When it comes to questions of classical human rights and state regulation, the judgment is mostly strict, and there are also predetermined exceptions. However, when it comes to other issues, so-called economic legislation, the judgment is held back. In these cases, it is simply that the Constitutional Court is not an institution that determines which of the policies - more or less the emphasis on social regulation, greater or less the control of the state over the market and the like - is real or constitutional and which is not. In order to decide on these issues, the institutions of the majority policy are primarily responsible, which directly respond to the elections and not to the nine or ten unpopular judges. Otherwise, in fact, there would be an oligarchy of nine unelected persons who would conduct, which of the social economic or financial policies is real and which is not, and would not be accountable to the electorate for their policy. If the court did not apply different levels of judgment in the various areas which so require, the democratic structure of the country itself would be attacked. Such warnings from traditional constitutional courts around the world are everyday and in their explanations of constitutional decisions deciding on the economic, financial, market, social decisions of the Government or Parliament. In the field of human rights and state regulation, the matter is, as said, reversed. There are at least two reasons why, in cases of human rights, the court should approach rigorous and non-contained constitutional tests. The first reason is that the content of human rights should be permanent and everywhere independent of the majority opinion or institutions of the majority policy. In addition, the Constitutional Court, unlike Parliament and the Government, is the institution that is most specialised in the field of human rights, because, unlike, for example, Members or Ministers, a judge's career is not just about building up a doctrine about individual articles or rights or determining where the limit of a right is in certain contexts. On the contrary, economic, financial or any other state policy is not subject to the specialisation of the Constitutional Court, but is inherent to other institutions of the State, particularly those responsible for the implementation of their policy to the electorate. What, then, is the meaning of strictness, and what is the retention of judgment? This depends, however, on the specific right or constitutional guarantee in which the court is tried, but it is still possible to draw some of the key general elements of both judgments. For example, a strict assessment means, for example, that the court will itself and very precisely assess whether any reason the alleged offender, such as the government or parliament, has given the constitution, whether it is legitimate or not. Do not leave this to a large extent, for example, by Parliament or government. Nor is the hypothetical legitimate objective of the regulation subject to an assessment sufficient to ensure the constitutionality of the regulation. This must be real and real in a concrete way, which the court itself considers. The concrete way in which the author of the revised regulation intended to achieve a legitimate objective must be forcible and least burdensome for the rights involved. It is not enough that this is just one of the most unfavourable ways to achieve the stated objective and so on. On the contrary, in the judgment of the Court of First Instance, it is only for the Court to assess whether the stated objective is hypothetically legitimate and reasonable. However, if no hypothetical reasonable objective can be found for any legal regulation, regulation will be declared unconstitutional. The Court does not assess whether the alleged hypothetical reason cited, for example, by the Government or Parliament, is real and real; it only assesses whether this hypothetical reason is entirely unreasonable or arbitrary in abstract. Only in such a case may the regulation be repealed as non-constitutional. The latter, however, hardly happens in practice. For as reasonable a hypothetical reason as possible can be found in most cases. If, however, the repeal of this proposal were to take place, for example, we could talk about the usurpation of government and parliamentary policy by the Constitutional Court. This would unduly take over the power of the government and Parliament by directing decisions in an area which is in the broad domain of a democratic majority and is in the hands of the court only in the context of a delayed judgment. In the United States of America, we would call such a conduct by the court "lohnerism" about it in this National Assembly when we talked about legislation on insurance. This expression was made when the Supreme Court repealed the legal regime adopted by the State in order to protect workers from exploitation by employers in 1905. The latter have successfully forced workers to enter into contracts for an unlimited full-day workshop. The Court’s attempt to prohibit such exploitation has been annulled by an argument, by the one used here today, that the adopted prohibition violates the contractual freedom provided for in the Constitution. Such an intervention by the Constitutional Court in all areas of operation of the State, through strict interventions also in the field of economic law, was later strongly rejected by the Court itself as a sampling of economic and other policies by the Court. Dear colleagues, this is our responsibility. Since we could not listen to what the unions were committed to, they are left with no alternative in our constitutional order, such as this possibility of a referendum. I'm sure the Constitutional Court, after the tradition I was just talking about, will not decide on this matter. This is the decision of this National Assembly. Our Group of Members, as has already been known as its leader, will vote against this proposal. Above all, because we are convinced that this is our responsibility, this is the responsibility of this national assembly. Such a step, if any, is a waiver of our powers, which is recognized not only by our constitutional order but also by constitutional order in all democratic countries. We will therefore vote against it. But we must, of course, find the answers to that question. This is a challenge for all of us. However, it is not that we hide behind the fact that we will send out a question to which it is our responsibility to find the right answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u23	Mr. Franci Tsukati has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. I don't know what's behind this proposal. The argument cited above is, in my opinion, domestically stated, drawn to the hair. It is said here that there is a danger or suspicion of disproportionate interference with the constitutional right of a free economic initiative. I think that this respect is a valuable right: the right to a free economic initiative. However, we also have some other rights that are probably above this right, the right to rest, justice, for example, some layers of workers to refuse night work, such as pregnant women, the right to hospital leave during illness and so on. If this were not the case, if the right to an economic initiative were free economic initiatives over all these rights, then we would return to a slave's order. I think it was just too much for you. Furthermore, I think that this relationship of these rights must be regulated by legislation, must be regulated by the government, must regulate the national assembly as a legislator. We can't get rid of this duty, and we can't get rid of it. Restricting Sunday's work in shops where this work is not necessary is precisely our duty to protect certain other rights that are above the right of a free economic initiative. Some, of course, are also further stated that exceptions adopted on the basis of referendum requirements would somehow create inequalities in operating conditions. This argument is also ridiculous. Gentlemen, we all know that mechanical workshops don't work on Sundays, but the tow truck works because it's necessary. And I don't think that's why it's not one of them. I don't know what a serious violation of free competition is. And it doesn't work in stores just to compare with emergency services, gentlemen, like the police, fire department, like the E.R. at the Clinical Center. That's ridiculous. I wonder if we are giving up the regulation of Sunday's work here in the National Assembly and leave it to the free economic initiative what happens. It can happen that some companies will be free on Sundays, other companies on Wednesdays, the third on Tuesdays, and it can also happen that this liberalist freedom comes into all areas. So we'll have, say, Tuesdays and Wednesdays free for the students, Thursdays break for the teachers, and parents will have, say, Saturdays off. Gentlemen, what is the task of leisure? Is it not a social interest that the whole family rests on a certain day? And not just the family that all society is on a certain day of rest, except of course emergency services. Isn't Sunday rest some good, our social gain, the acquisition of our society through history created, which I think from a medical-psychological point of view is extremely important, that rest as a rest is treated as a social value, because we are not individualists, we are also social beings. And all the depression and all the famous quotations of the Slovenians to the top, which concerns sedepression and suicide, are probably also based on the fact that the moment that we are social beings is under-appreciated. If we are talking only about economic success and neglecting this aspect of society, gentlemen, then our society is not well placed in this policy. Once again, I stress that it is extremely important to have this aspect before us, including evaluation, and I still do not know why the proposaler has made such a strange case, whether it is only a matter of delay, I do not know for what reason, but certainly the referendum itself should be unnecessary if in this national assembly some more obedience to the duty of the State takes into account the social dimension of the individual. And, of course, on March 8th we will give a wonderful gift to our wives, a gift to say, but the National Assembly does not know whether the right of women to rest over or under the right to free economic initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u25	Thank you. I'm giving the word to Sasha Pechet, who's not here. Dr. Bayuk, you've discussed this before.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u26	But I'd like to do it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u27	I'd like to go in the order they signed up for, because there's still time left. Thank you for understanding. Steady Run, please. Once the order is exhausted, there will be time for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u28	Thank you very much. As my colleague Kontič said, in our Group, we believe that the content of the proposal for a referendum is not unconstitutional. Perhaps the initiative itself could have a number of substantive arguments why we decide to regulate the operating time of trade, where there is a public interest, on which we refer this definition of where the reasons why we give and anticipate certain exceptions or not are. But when we talk about this today, in fact, we all know that we know these reasons in substance, at least those who believe that the content is not unconstitutional. I believe that we are reminded that we have already had a debate on this in this National Assembly, when we have amended more or less a successful trade law, that we have also talked at the time about the Constitutional Court's decision to amend the law and therefore I expect that today's debate will also give a lot of substantive arguments that can be based on the Constitutional Court to judge whether, in our opinion, there is or is no reason for us to go into certain regulation through the understanding of public interest, I will not say restriction, but to regulate the operating time of trade, including some exceptions. If we are talking about whether there are really not enough arguments in the initiative, then I would like to say that there are just as few or less of them in the warnings that the content of this proposal is unconstitutional. There are very few because it comes solely from the assumption that a free economic initiative is more or less the only one we need to take into account and comes only from an analysis of the text submitted, not from the knowledge that this national assembly has on the problems of operating time regulation. It is therefore regrettable to me and to us in the Group of Members that we have not been prepared or able to do so, and I am referring to the National Assembly, I am referring to the Government and the Department of State, but I am also thinking of partners, employers and employees, to seek some possibilities for common solutions, because it would certainly be easier for us if we were closer than they are today to make a decision than if we had to take it in the face of too much mutual disagreement. Here we have formally done everything we need, because the National Assembly decides on procedures, on how to determine when the agenda is, on votes and so on, like politicians, and we are also Members, and we have not done enough. I'm sure of it. If we were to look for any way to influence the search for compromise rather than diverge, perhaps the solution would be better. This will make me happy if we take any further steps in this direction. In the end, only two. It was interesting to discuss Dr. Bayuk's role as Constitutional Court. I have not been used to such theoretical legal debates from his mouth so far. I honestly think, when I say interesting, of course, I must frankly say that many times now the practice of the Constitutional Court has not always been the case with regard to questions that Dr. Bayuk might have been interested in. Our constitutional court has, in my opinion, many times been judged not withheld, but vice versa. It has also been decided that it goes to a substantive assessment where it could be more justified to say that it is a responsibility, and thus the right of the Parliament and the Government to assess it is wider where it is not a matter of direct interference with constitutional law, and unfortunately this has not happened. This should be allowed to me, which is just following the decisions of the Constitutional Court to say this further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u29	Thank you very much, colleague Potsch. Comrade Podobnik now has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u30	Thank you, President. In the introductory part, I would like to draw attention to the debate of my colleague Potræ. I fully support his argument as to why he feels that this requirement for a constitutional court to decide on the content of the request is incomplete, poorly prepared, unfounded. I'm just missing a logical conclusion to say that this is why the Group of Members will not support it. However, it is also possible to have another explanation that, in fact, this time with the help of the Constitutional Court, we will get back confirmation that the content is not contrary to the Constitution. That's the double route. I would like to say that I think it is a key argument, which is written down, whether the content of this referendum initiative could be contrary to the Constitution, with regard to the so-called free economic initiative. It's a matter of public interest. I must tell you that I am convinced that the argument set out in this initiative by trade unions is the following: The legislator may restrict certain forms of entrepreneurship if public benefit, protection of human health and life, protection of nature, consumers, employees and the like is shown. Colleagues and colleagues, I firmly believe that the fundamental principles of the Slovenian Constitution come from man as a free individual whose dignity is a particularly protected value. Therefore, I do not think that this argument holds up, this argument does not hold up. If she goes to constitutional court like this, it won't be an honor. That's my humble opinion. Today's information, which I read in one Slovenian media, "traders and merchants must sign an agreement on Sunday's work, work at night and holidays" when the bosses are present, and I will not quote a further statement that is even worse. This is a statement in which the legislator must not remain unharmed. He must not remain unharmed. And it has happened that this item on the agenda is an opportunity to say that this time the path of the national assembly is wrong. First of all, this time a referendum procedure that is absolutely unnecessary. As legislators, we had a law, a proposal for amendments and an amendment to a law that would solve a provision differently. The political majority would consider it and adopt solutions that would be correct, which would make social dialogue more effective in Slovenia in this area as well. That's the first one. Second. In my firm belief, we made a procedural error. I have carefully read the explanation, where it is also written, which element might also be contrary to the Constitution. Let me read it. It is a matter of uncertainty as to the exemption from the rules on operating ban, including the specific location of trade. The explanation does not show why the sites are selected in the proposed manner. If that were the case, then we should put into practice the practice so far and also the legal possibility that the National Assembly - and it should be distinguished from the ambiguity in the referendum question - this is Article 15, Article 16, which refers to the possible unconstitutionality of the requirement, i.e. the content. If we were to assess that anything was unclear, and the secretariat's opinion often spelled out the word 'unclear', then today we should call on the proposer to complete the question and explanation. That would be the right way and the right way. In my opinion, the Constitutional Court will also find that this time we have just skipped, which I think is a mistake in the procedure. Once we begin this procedure, we will prevent the procedure from being adopted by law. This dual position of the National Assembly is fundamentally unfair. Instead of changing the law, we refer to the Constitutional Court, instead of calling on the proposer of the initiative and asking him, in accordance with the law, to complete the content of the request and the question more clearly. I even think that the question is clear. There's something else that bothers me. We do not have any chronology, whether it is representation at all, so the leadership of the National Assembly has written to the proposers and invited them to complete the question at all, or to complete the content of the request. I also have a problem with date confusion. Here is date 26.2. and the National Assembly received this request 6.3. What was going on in the middle? In my opinion, the procedure was misguided. But regardless of whether the majority decide to go to the Constitutional Court, the following will happen to us that the political majority will seek in the Constitutional Court's decision a professional substantive political alibi, what it will then adopt in law. But that's gonna take half a billion dollars. We're gonna need a referendum. But we can avoid it. I would appeal that we break this point and find this path and ladies 600 million tolars for another matter in Slovenia, any. There's a lot of them. Today we have that opportunity. Most will be the solution if it is proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u31	Thank you very much. My friend Juban's giving up the debate, so the mag. It's a trifle. Would you like to replicate, explain, Madam Vice President, as a motioner? Please. Mag. A trifle, just for a moment, because the question was put to the motioner. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Squirrel! The proposer was invited and asked to correct the referendum issue accordingly on Tuesday. It was also given the possibility of further explanation in the referendum question of the exceptions identified. He did what he did. He was invited in his letter to correct the formal deficiency, because the basic initiative itself did not specify the law to which the issue relates and otherwise dealt with in a particular part. This formality was complemented, but did not, in fact, further explain in the referendum question the exceptions identified and was invited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u33	Comrade Companion, please. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u34	President, would it be possible for the National Assembly to receive a letter from the Vice-President of the National Assembly and the response of the initiators of this initiative? If so, there is no need for a meeting today. In my opinion, the issue is quite clear. The very explanation is correct and there are no more reasons for which this was obviously written before this was completed. And one more thing, the dates don't match. It's strange, we have date 26.2., you know, the date of the workers' union is Please, if we get the last initiative. [[...]] No, no, 26.2. The union wrote us. That's why I'd kindly ask the president if we could get this chronology. I'm re-procedurally proposing that the point should be interrupted and that we find ways to avoid the referendum procedure, because we can avoid it and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u35	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u36	We're shipping 600 million tolars. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u37	A procedural proposal is possible and can be put to the vote. I believe that, if I may say, colleague Podobnik, in order to get all the documentation on the bench, this is not necessary, since many of the colleagues who have been reported can be taken a break even before the decision is made, would not interrupt the debate. Is he okay? So I ask the competent authorities to explain all the documentation, if it is not in the material, to the Members and Members of Parliament on the bench and the debate is going on. Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. I am pleased that this debate has begun. The debates are weighted, reasoned. I think they should have been done earlier, and we would have avoided these complications, including the call for a referendum. If the National Assembly, on an initiative by the Trade Union, had been informalised, signalled that this should be regulated if they were sufficiently sensitive, this would not have happened. Nor would this happen if we were sensitive and attentive to the proposal of our law, where I was first signed, without any ambition, but mainly because of the pressures that have arisen, then there would be no complication. The second is a very clear message from all of this. Let us not place our responsibility on other institutions, because we ourselves cannot resolve this. In the previous law, we postponed the responsible decision to agree between employers and employees, but when we knew that the principle of co-ordination was not working and that both partners were not in the same position in these negotiations. Now there's another position. Since we ourselves are not capable of doing this, what we must do, we place the responsibility on the Constitutional Court to do advisory services for us. Figa, this is not the responsibility and competence of the Constitutional Court to provide us with a solution how to regulate the law. This is our obligation. They will only find out and have the opportunity to find out that if we have written something in the law and have also adopted it, whether we have violated the constitutional provision. Restricting a free initiative, here I would like to focus my words mainly on the representatives of the ministry and the government. If there is any restriction on freedom of initiative, it is mainly due to administrative obstacles and the poor functioning of the public authorities. And something else about nepotism and the like, and monopolies, that's limiting the initiative. And we should read, in particular, Article 47, last paragraph, about monopolies. The referendum issue happened, and these were forced by those who were in distress. If we had responded in an appropriate manner and responded in a timely manner, this would not have been because there were no hardships, we would have had the opportunity to see where the way out was. However, when the initiatives began to stall, they submitted because they saw that the National Assembly was not responding in the appropriate way. The last exam that was, I somehow felt it in order to settle the issue, or by emergency procedure, after a reduced procedure. No, the postponement and we'll go on the other way. With regard to the reduction of employees, I would also like to replicate my colleague Barovic. Kolga Barovic, if anything, all studies show that if you introduce Sunday's work in trade, that I am clear, the number of long-term jobs will not increase, as the purchasing power is more or less the same. This store or store does not behave the same as a manufacturing company that has an open trading opportunity in world trade, because it is difficult for you to ensure that you attract customers from New York with your opening time to walk you through the Sunday opening of trade. Of course, the production activity will be interesting in New York, because it's not tied to that moment. Studies also show this. According to the State representatives, deregulation has not increased the number of jobs. Deregulation does not increase jobs but places them. That's what it is. It places them in a different way, or in a way of concentration. Yeah, that's what he does. Is our goal now in the National Assembly, and is it in the interest of people to concentrate everything as much as possible? Do we also have little sense that any trade would still be in the countryside? This is a question and this is also in the context of this study. This is a fundamental question of how to do this. This, of course, is our decision and our responsibility. It is therefore pointless to send such dispatches to the Constitutional Court, to provide advice or simply to postpone the decision. We decide because we are responsible for this on the basis of reasonable arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u39	Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u40	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u41	Replica, you were not mentioned in the discussion of Master Drobnič. You were? I wasn't paying attention. Please, then I'm sorry. I wasn't paying attention to that. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, Mr. Petty Officer, you're right. You're right, what you said would not increase your work on Sundays in stores. But I'm sorry, I didn't talk about it. But I was talking about, if they don't work on a market-based basis on Sunday, the number will go down. That's a difference, though you're right. If there's work on Sundays, it certainly won't.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u43	Only if it's an explanation, not a controversy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u44	I owe you an explanation. Of course, my statement by Mr Barovic went in the direction, if we deregulation, then the number of jobs does not increase. And it's also true the other way around, it's also true the other way around, it's just moving. That statement is not true, I can put it in a different way: if you restrict Sunday's work to the absence of it, it will not be known in the number of jobs in the long run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u45	Comrade Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u46	Thank you. I am also pleased that the trifle began to reflect more on what had been done when the Trade Act was passed, when this party was not prepared to hear any argument, but was fully committed to the capital and did not accept any arguments, even though we warned at the time. That is why, in fact, I am surprised at Mr Potræ, who said that we should seek common paths for compromise. We've proposed them, we've looked for them, but in the final phase, I think the unions have been rejected. The unions agreed that the law, which Mr Drobnic signed as the first-signed, would go into adoption after a reduced procedure. But you also refused to do so. You refused to do that, too. Now you must accept absolutely all the costs of a possible referendum, because we have warned in time, but the arrogance has led the unions and employees to find themselves in such distress that they do not see another solution. And they don't actually have it. It is true, however, that you have made it impossible to adopt a change of law, including this initiative, which is legitimate and normal, and otherwise could not come to a solution. This has also been done deliberately, at this stage with this delay, I stress once again, to discredit the referendum as an institution! To talk about the costs that will undoubtedly be because you did not want to take different solutions, and to allow the consequent abolition of the institute of referendum or direct democracy to a significant extent! I think it is high time for you to face this situation, and I would personally agree if it is possible to stop this today, so that the unions and everyone else can come forward and find another solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u47	Thank you. Sonja Areh Lavrič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here! According to the amendment to the law adopted in the National Assembly by the end of last year, workers in trade activities are those who are expected to determine the operating time of shops, including for weeks and holidays, or for work off days, but not without the agreement of employees, i.e. by consensus between employers and employers. However, this has also been shown by the media. There are disagreements, even within the affected group. Not even the trade union, which accounts for about 36,000 members, has finally taken no uniform position on the issue. The fact already mentioned by a colleague, Mr Barovic, is that Slovenia has also entered the period of the market economy. The pace of modern life simply dictates the need for such working hours, as it were on Sundays. According to the available data, Slovenia is slightly above the average of the European Union in this respect, of course it is for workers working in trade, who also work on Sundays. However, the figures do not represent a critical limit, which would require Sunday's work in stores to be legally prohibited. I am in favour of the position of some, including Members, that there is a need to regulate or adopt a provision for workers in trade on one working day a week. I also believe that a sharper response should be made to the numerous infringements of the legal provisions by employers in trade, thereby protecting over-stretched and self-inflicted sellers and sellers. The solution is certainly in the strict control of the inspection services and in the appropriate action in the event of infringements and the actual and appropriate sanctioning of such offences. This would significantly improve the situation in this area. Let me finish my thought. In principle, I also support the proposal to conclude that the content of the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law amending the trade law should be found in the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u49	Thank you. I give the word to France the Rock.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Members and others present! I am personally surprised by the proposal of the initiators to assess the constitutionality of the proposed law, the referendum proposal, to a constitutional court. I am surprised that I am convinced that the requirements of the initiators are significantly more at stake than the obvious proposals for collecting signatures for a referendum on operating time. In fact, Slovenia has ratified the European Directive and the European Charter, which clearly states that the day of rest of the week should normally be the day on which workers do not work according to tradition. It's Sunday in Slovenia. We must tell ourselves sooner or later that in the area of trade in Slovenia there is cruel capitalism, that there is no real social partnership here. Here, whether we want it or not, the legislator will have to come up with a more appropriate solution as soon as possible. The families of employees are facing a lot of problems and trauma under such legislation, and we have already said a lot about it in this House. And what now in this situation that we are in today? I am convinced that the proposal by the initiator to assess the constitutionality of this referendum issue for hair is drawn to how to obtain additional time and manoeuvre. I'm really surprised, but I'm surprised at this way because I think it's causing ambiguity before, and the ambiguity in the part where it's mostly throwing a bad light at this Parliament. Rather than allowing the initiators, together with the President of the National Assembly, to meet with the Trade Workers' Union in January and to promise them that the National Assembly will try to find an appropriate solution by March, instead of actually finding this solution, they now refer to this lateral route of finding an emergency solution to the Constitutional Court. Because time is running out, just to finish the thought. As the leader of the parliamentary group has already said, it would now be reasonable to suspend the meeting and find an appropriate legal solution and agreement with the initiators of the business time referendum. Only this would be the wise action of this national council, and everything else is just hiding places and scattering money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u51	Thank you. My colleague Blaž Kavčič has the floor. He quits, so I give the word to Ivan Mamić, who doesn't exist, Janez Komljanec quits. Aloys Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members. I think Dr. Andrej Bajuk has previously accurately broken down what the powers of the Constitutional Court are and also ordered a possible solution. Unfortunately, it seems that in this democracy we have been behind for a hundred years, some who have long known these laws and have also come to realize that the task of the country's highest legislative authority is to adopt laws, and that is why it is also taking all the political risk of such a decision. In fact, what we're doing today, the more I'm listening to it, I'm realizing that a barren business, some kind of wind hunt. The Constitutional Court can essentially bring two solutions. One solution is for the Constitutional Court to rule that this issue is not contrary to Article 74 of the Constitution. So what did we do today? Nothing. So there's no going back, we're going to collect 40,000 signatures and of course all the costs involved. If this Parliament were to act wisely, this law could be dealt with today at an extraordinary meeting. If the law had been adopted, the reasons for the referendum would have been dropped and there would have been a lot of savings in this country. Second. The Constitutional Court may decide because, in fact, after some decisions, our Constitutional Court is unpredictable, it may decide that this initiative is contrary to Article 74 of the Constitution. Here we have been able to hear and see for ourselves that in many of the European Union's members work is limited on Sundays. In practice, then, this meant that our legislation was contrary to European Union law. Does this mean, then, that traders or trade unions will turn to the European Court and seek their right there? We will become members of the European Union and, of course, in this direction, I would expect the next solution to be in this direction if this Parliament is not prepared to decide. I agree with those who today call for this debate to be stopped and a suitable solution found. For we are wasting our time, and we are not actually contributing with anything to salvation. The worst is what is now and what we can read in our media, when actually traders' representatives are forcing workers and trade workers to sign in some groups, of course under appropriate justification, some consensus and, of course, are burdened by various attempts, including probably threats and blackmails, do not decide to oppose work on Sunday. It's not just about 5,000 workers and workers. It is essentially for 5,000 families, which are connected in one way or another. On my own, I wonder how this Parliament would have, how Members and Members would have decided if, however, most of us had, I don't know, a husband or a wife working in trade. I am sure that there would not be all these questions at that time and all these issues, in fact, that the right decision would be taken quickly. I will not support this decision, which is proposed. And I really suggest that those of you who have a majority in this House consider this proposal that we stop this debate before deciding and decide as is right, but not that we actually take such decisions as to place the responsibility that we should carry out ourselves on someone else who does not actually have these powers in our constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u53	Thank you, colleague Sok. Lydia Majnik has the floor. He's cancelling. He's not here right now. Anna Maria Tisovic? She's not either. Dorian Marshich? He's quitting. Majda Shirtz? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u54	Thank you very much. As we are not yet discussing the subject matter of the initiative, but whether or not the Constitutional Court has previously dealt with it, I do not wish to open or deepen questions such as: whether the latest is the right operating time regime, whether the consent of employees to the applicant is an relevant fact or not, whether care for the overload of women is a potential proposed demagogy or not. After all, why not also ask about the overload in this place of doctors, farmers, waitresses, cooks, actresses, stewardesses, journalists, writers, nurses and so on, whose families may be deprived of family life as well as family salesmen, as stated by the applicant. Nor do I want to open up questions such as whether the reference to female sellers alone is possible manipulation or not. After all, why not also suffer the family life of those families where men would go to work on Sundays or holidays. We will not open questions such as whether or not a free economic initiative is in breach of the law, whether the interests of consumers may be violated or not, and whether it is necessarily the Lord's Sunday that is the day or not. In short, in today's debate, I can only decide whether the decision of the National Assembly proposed in the constitutional opinion of the referendum is correct or not. Personally, I think that, also because the applicants will have more ground for correction in possible answers, there will certainly be those who may continue to face changes, possible changes to other laws, or even those who will deal with the definition of collective agreements or not. Nevertheless, I would point to the inadequacy of the proposaler, who is not to be sought only in his, I think, somewhat superficially written, initiative. Let us leave it that the applicants have not mentioned in the first - before of course they have rectified the issue of the reference law to which the initiative referred and so on, that is, after all, overturned. However, the proposal does not contain a sufficiently reasoned solution to the operating exceptions, indicating ten weeks a year in which it interferes with the right of a free economic initiative, but at the same time, in an unclear way, the applicants create a distinction between those who would be allowed to operate unrestrictedly and those who could only do so in part. In short, applicants shall, without specific justification, define as exceptions, as we know, hotels, gas services, bus and rail stations, airports, and thereby define or frame public interest. Trade at a gas station gets a different status than trade in, say, a tourist circuit, like some kind of shop in some tourist camp where people are resting and so on, or they're not starting what they're supposed to do here, so they should only do it on Sundays. Thus, a trader who carries out a trade activity freely and under the same conditions may in some way be discriminated against in this proposal, but not only because of the restriction of competition. Furthermore, the legislative and legal service, through its comprehensive opinion, which can serve, as I have said, the proposer for a good basis for amending the proposal, may have passed another, say, constitutional question, which arises from the explanation of the referendum initiative. In fact, it's kind of lowering the principle of equality by sex. Proposers assume that women are primarily employed in the store, who will reduce healthy family relationships by their Sunday absence, and fathers or husbands are not necessarily married to a healthy family relationship. This can also be the way to read the explanations of the applicants. This may be true, but only because of this kind of thinking. I am not comfortable using women when they want to achieve a specific goal. And the objective of this initiative is not to be just and just a concern for the family.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u55	Thank you very much for the debate. Yasha Zląbet has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u56	I think we're dealing with a very strong symbolic matter. And whoever does not understand that this is a symbolic matter, he has learned nothing in his own. If you've forgotten everything you've read in your youth, at least read Huxley's Beautiful New World, and you won't be throwing words out of your mind. The first and the basic fact is around which everyone should unite: capital has no nationality. Slovenian capitalist doesn't have a little more heart than a foreign capitalist. Only and only profit is what capitalist and capital are interested in. And the only law can limit unbridled greed for profit. True, the city centers are devastated by capital and its greed. It's also true that older people and those without a car can't even get to mega markets. Even on the outskirts of the city, when the mega markets of small stores arrived, they mostly closed down. Ten weeks a year, in my humble opinion, is barely a bearable number. Not that there were 54 of them, as if he were demanding capital. Anyone who comes a day with comparisons with cops, with doctors, with nurses, firefighters, security guards, football players who work even on Sundays is just a demagog. It's a shame, it's a huge shame for all of Slovenia that a foreigner, Leclerc, himself, said that if others don't work on Sundays, we're the first ones who won't work on Sundays. Mercator and others, so-called Slovenian moguls, have not shown the slightest willingness to solve the matter in any way. I think it's a real shame. In fact, it will be those who will say that in the majority of Members we are advocates of capital, not advocates of the people of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u57	We have now exhausted that part of the debate which is linked to the stated words. This could now be the conclusion of the debate. Please, Comrade Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u59	Do you still want to discuss the time available? [[Yeah.]] Then I have to ask the rest of you if anyone else wants to stay at this time? Comrade Podobnik, colleague Barovic? I suggest you all have, say, seven minutes of time. Is that acceptable? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I usually talk less time. Mr President and distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I believe that it is imperative that we focus this debate on the essence of the problem that we have faced: what has actually happened, that it has happened, that there has been any institution such as the union, started this initiative and formally presented it to the President of the National Assembly. The fact is, they cannot agree with the legislative solution adopted by the national assembly by the majority as it is. And what is the problem in this matter? Yes, the fact is, if I understand correctly, that we have rediscovered what some have already pointed out at the time, that there is in fact some fundamental inequality between workers and owners, employers. That's a fact. All the cases that these people are experiencing have pushed them to find out what our constitutional order foresees: if the National Assembly did not have sufficient hearing to solve an open question, our constitutional order guarantees this possibility. And now they've made up their minds. What else happened in the middle? That's something to talk about. Our parliamentary group, the first-signed mag. Janez Drobnič presented and introduced into the procedure a proposal for a law to resolve this issue in a different way. The leadership of the National Assembly has decided, as it is, by the mechanisms we all know that we have not yet considered this bill. Why didn't we discuss the guppa? Yes, ask those who have decided not to consider it yet! The fact is - and I am not doing propaganda for the proposal of the law of our parliamentary group, it is very possible, when the subject of the debate in the national assembly, will be completed or changed in any way or other. But the debate is urgent, because it is not only a problem that I have heard a colleague of the Liberal Democracy that this is the day of the gentlemen - you know, it is not a gentleman's day. I have lived alone in my long life elsewhere in the world, for example in Latin America, the United States and Europe, France, where they have a completely different approach to this. In North America, yes, it's all open! It's open on Sundays! And the "shopping" centers have turned into some kind of sanctuary of this society, it's just a society that places great value on it, and they've decided to have it. In France, where there is no question about the Lord's day, at least for the vast majority of people, they have decided to keep it closed. And they're closed because they don't want to be slaves, for example, consumer societies, to have at least one day a week of peace before that and to devote it to other dimensions of everyday life, but it's not just where I spend, what I buy and what someone sells. Well, why don't we discuss these things? Because it is not only this issue that we have been brought to our attention by the initiators of this referendum, but also this question of whether we want to be like society elsewhere, to become just a consumer society in our essence, or whether we choose to live differently. And that would be no specialty, because a number of countries in Europe have done so. And they're not over, and they're very advanced from an economic point of view, and that's not the question of whether it's Sunday or Saturday or Friday. I regret, however, that our law enforcement service has presented such a comment, with respect to fellow Members and colleagues, to address me now to the Constitutional Court. This means that it is our view that we will give up our legislative responsibility because there is nothing to look for a constitutional court in this area. This is one of the three sets that I spoke about earlier, which is the subject and must be the subject of decisions by the National Assembly, people who are elected and who represent specific interests and the views of the entire society in Slovenia. I'm sorry, I really regret that we're going in this direction because there are different solutions. There is a solution to decide once that we will consider this initiative as soon as possible, as proposed by colleague Janez Drobnič, to do so as soon as possible and to decide on it. This, however, may only prevent this referendum decision from taking place. Otherwise, with all due respect for our constitutional order, these people had no choice but to do what they were. So they mobilized their membership, their people, equally confident, and advocated a referendum initiative. If the National Assembly does not have a hearing about what our society wants us to at least discuss openly on these issues, then be prepared, and we will get such initiatives on our table. Too bad we really don't know how to solve one problem in our essence and that we are also now moving forward in this discussion. The fact is, this option exists, we can save her otherwise. I suggest we do that, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I wouldn't want to explain the procedures you know. The fact is that today the National Assembly must decide on this decision. Comrade Podobnik has the floor, followed by his colleague Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u62	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that we have received this letter, which was addressed by the Vice-President of the National Assembly on 4 March to the proposers of the initiative. We have not been informed before that the applicant has changed and complemented only the referendum issue as well as the partial content. But it is true that the proposaler is awkward. That's what you have to say. He wrote the same date on his updated proposal. Oh, that's... that's... that's... that's... that's... Thus, it is only from the text when it came to the National Assembly that we see what the new text is, since the date is just the previous. I looked at this letter, which was written by Vice-President Irma Pavlinič Krebsov on the initiative's proposal, and pointed out in the second paragraph that the initiative was flawed with regard to the provision of the bill. This was then supplemented by a proposal. However, the last paragraph may be somewhat unclear to the applicant. See also the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly pointed out the content of the referendum question. And then quotes Article 16 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. This is not exactly true, for Article 16 clearly refers to the content of the call for tender but does not refer to the content of the referendum question. The proposer should be told that this is the whole content, not just the question. You weren't paying attention here. This disqualification comes from the law. Therefore, it has not been stated that when a decision is taken on constitutionality, it is decided on the content of the request. The request, however, consists of a question and a full explanation. It's not entirely here but I don't want to complicate it, I'd like to say that practice is always important. [[...]] You will recall one of the examples of our referendum calvaries that we have in the National Assembly. It was a referendum on the law on telecommunications, investment in telecommunications and so on. At the time, the procedures were similar. Just before we decided to call for a referendum, we had a candidate who had a mandate on behalf of, I don't know how many, signatories, and we made a political commitment to go into the procedure of the law to which the initiative was based, and the applicant resigned. At that time, the National Assembly did not call for a referendum. That is why I have proposed a procedural proposal, which has been announced that the point would now be interrupted and an agreement would be reached in the framework of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to include in the March session a proposal for a law which was tabled by Comrade Drobnic in the procedure. And then there's simply no reason for today's demand. I am confident that the proposers of the initiative will withdraw immediately from their initiative. I'm sure they'll do it. I was informed by the President of the National Assembly and by the Secretary-General that this is contrary to the procedure, but that we must decide today. Of course, there are other ways that we do not make decisions today. One is that, in accordance with Article 15 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, on the basis of the secretariat's opinion, we invite him to complete the referendum issue which could be in the element related to individual trade to complement it, to make it clearer. If we do this, we have three days. At that time, we can agree that as a legislator we will do what we are supposed to do in order to also do some of the sides of the roads that my colleague Zląbec spoke about earlier, so that there will be no more practice in the Republic of Slovenia. If you insist that today it is only necessary to decide on a decision such as this, and this is the decision that leads us against the referendum, I would ask the President to receive a 15-minute recess before deciding on behalf of the Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u63	I believe that now that we are listening to the position of Comrade Barovic, it will not be unnecessary if we meet for a few minutes in room 217 because of clarifications in the procedure of the leaders of the parliamentary groups. First, I give my colleague Barovic my word. Then I will conclude the debate and invite the leaders of the parliamentary groups to meet us in room 217.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. I would like to give a general answer. It is not right that we are now looking at who is the demagog, who is not, who is the proponent of capital and who is not. Because the Labour Relations Act is very clear and very specific. He says: The owner decides, the worker executes. Sorry, that's what we wanted, and that's what we got. If I make the next comparison, just to clarify. In the previous political system as it was, the workers were both co-owners, both operators, so jointly responsible for all processes. Today - which sounds very bad, but unfortunately so - a worker is a cost. Sorry, that's the way it is today. However, I would like to say that I am very much in favour if, of course, we could find an option, a procedural proposal made by the distinguished colleague Podobnik - if only we could find an option - so that the law, which is prepared, could be applied to a March meeting, decided on and avoided by the great cost and the hot blood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u65	I would not conclude the debate now if we did not come into the same situation as we were embarrassed by the commission of inquiry, but would break it at this point. I would ask that in a few minutes in room 217 the leadership of the National Assembly, the leaders of the parliamentary groups and the legislative and legal service be gathered to see what options we have, if any. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u66	I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come from the lobby to the hall. At 3 p.m., we will continue the debate and move on to decision-making. Three minutes. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It's 3:00. Before I inform you of our agreement, I would like to conclude that we have closed the debate, which has not been reported, and I propose that we close it. Before that, I'd like to inform you of our agreement. From the point of view of the procedure, things are very clear and unequivocal: the national assembly must adopt or reject a proposal for a decision. The leaders of the parliamentary groups and the leadership of the National Assembly would like to find a solution that would lead to a situation in which the call for a referendum would not be necessary. Today it is impossible to say - for this, the leaders of the parliamentary groups did not have a mandate - what will be the position of the sent groups until the resolution of the possible law that regulates this issue is resolved. However, we agreed that we would be ready next week to hold the necessary talks with the initiators for the referendum, which, regardless of today's decision, for or against the decision, would allow for the adoption of a law that would not require a referendum to be called for by the initiator. This option exists next week. The political will of the parliamentary groups and the leadership of the National Assembly is to try to find such a solution in the coming week and, as it is said, regardless of the decision we are going to take today whether matter goes to the Constitutional Court or not. Everyone will vote in their own conscience, whether they think it's appropriate or not. I think that's an important message. I propose that we conclude the debate now, turn to the vote, see whether the proposal for a decision has the necessary support or not. If he has the necessary support, he will complain to the Constitutional Court, if he does not have the necessary support, I am obliged, in accordance with the law, to set a deadline for collecting signatures for the referendum invitation. Voice explanation, colleague Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. I am personally against the decision because it is clear to me personally that the right of Slovenian women to rest until Sunday must be over the right of the owner of the trade to profit. This National Assembly, I personally believe, is a right, this psychosocial value must be protected, no matter what the Constitutional Court thinks. With regard to the interesting connotation of the gentleman's day, let me say that I am for the gentleman's day, and I would like to see that on that day I would not only be a capitalist sir, but I would also be a Slovenian seller, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u68	Comrade Petty Officer, behind him is Comrade Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u69	In the New Slovenia Group, we will vote against this decision because this decision is a reflection of the powerlessness of the National Assembly to deal with and accept what is in its possession, its obligation to decide on it because it transfers its decisions to someone else. In the first instance, in the form of the present law, this has been submitted to two parties which are not equal and this has happened. In this case, they would have waived the obligation to carry out this business by the Constitutional Court. The question is, how will it work? In the light of your jurisdiction, that's definitely it. I don't know how much help we're gonna do with this. It's just a delay and not a rescue. We had a chance to solve this, and we didn't. May this be another lesson for us in this national convention. And why are we still not in favor of this conclusion? For reasons of this Decision which cannot be held back. There is no restraint on sober judgment, no restraint on the arguments given inside. Perhaps one of us in the National Assembly would still agree with the decision, otherwise I will not, but it will certainly not be with the explanation that is, excuse me, limping. Those are the reasons we won't support this. Of course, we hope, regardless of the solution, that there will be a solution that will be appropriate to our cultural space, as Mr Tsukjat has mentioned what this gentleman's day will be like, whether it will be the gentleman's capitalists' day, or whether it will be the gentleman's day that the people who want to have will feel good and appreciate life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u70	Comrade Rokavec, behind him colleague Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u71	Thank you for your word. I will vote against this proposal for a decision, and from this point of view, because it must be the national assembly as the legislator who has to deal with certain social issues in this country, not hide behind the hiding places of referral to the Constitutional Court or the payment of referendums for people to decide on such issues. It is the legislator's duty to deal fairly and honestly. If we take this decision, we will prove that the National Assembly is immature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u72	Thank you very much. My friend Anderlich, behind him, my friend Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u73	I will vote in favour of the proposal for a decision because I want to, and so do Members of the Liberal Democracy Group, in all cases, want to take into account in the same manner the law on the referendum and the people's initiative, which gives this opportunity or prescribes it in a situation where there is ambiguity when it comes to things that could also have harmful consequences. And what's a kind of paradox, even for those who think that this issue needs to be resolved at the referendum, within 15 days, there are other solutions. It is really absurd that we cannot accept what Mr Drobnič wants to regulate with the law and that the union that requested the referendum is also tied to which we cannot accept because of the blockade that has been put into the National Assembly by requiring the collection of 40,000 signatures. On this March, when otherwise envisaged in the National Assembly, we cannot adopt it in a future programme to address this law. We can deal with it, but we can't accept it because the procedure has been stopped. However, if this issue can be addressed without a referendum, especially in the agreement between employers, unions and ultimately with the political will of the national assembly, then we must make it possible to reach these solutions. In our view, the justification given in the opinion of the Law Service and what I have been talking about is that we should do so and resolve it. That's why we'll support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u74	My friend Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will also support this decision because the text presented in the referendum question somehow shows that the applicants in looking at the forest - in the form of large sellers and shops - have overlooked thousands of trees in the form of small entrepreneurs, who create their own business in a way that works according to their own will and wishes, as well as needs, on Sundays. I think that this segment of entrepreneurship would be greatly affected, so I agree with the Constitutional Court's finding that such behaviour is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-07-SDZ3-Izredna-29.ana.u76	Anybody else want to explain their voice? Then I will put the motion for a decision to the vote. Can we vote? [[Yes, you can.]] I shall put the motion to the vote. We're in the middle of a vote. May I have your attention, we're in the middle of a vote. 58 present, 30 for, 21 versus. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 21.]] The decision is adopted. Before concluding this point, let me once again say that, after consulting the leadership of the national assembly and the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the political will of the national assembly was expressed to find a solution in the talks with the union representatives next week, which would mean that we could avoid a referendum. That's how we're gonna try and find a solution. A final decision will be taken by the National Assembly in a sovereign manner. Before we say good-bye, let me inform you that at 2 p.m. Monday we will be hosting the Secretary-General of NATO Lord Robertson, so I ask you to be present and prepare, on behalf of the Group of Members, questions and participate in the debate. Thank you.
