ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u1	176. Proposal by Members Lucie Šafránková, Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others to issue a law amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended /house print 652/ - first reading We launched this item on 11 February at the 40th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and the general debate was interrupted. I remind you that we received the Government's position as House Press 652/1. I would like to see Mrs Lucie Šafránková and the rapporteur for the first reading of Ms Hana Aulická Jírovcová take the position at the rapporteur's table. We will therefore continue with the interrupted general debate in which Mrs Lucie Šafránková is signed up and Mr Jan Bauer will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since quite a lot of time has passed since the last discussion, let me briefly remind you what our proposal for an amendment on material need is about. It is a set of seven changes that should eliminate or minimise the abuse of benefits of aid in material distress, strengthen the supervisory powers of the labour office staff and also enable really significantly sanctioning those who abuse the aid system in material distress. It is also a measure aimed at the expansion of pathological phenomena associated with the existence of so-called. excluded localities. The proposal was consulted in detail at the level of the Labour and Social Union Office of the local public administration. It's purely out of practice. The common denominator of the proposed changes is the effort to achieve, through tightening the conditions of control and penalty mechanisms, the reduction of the abuse of funds for non-insurable social benefits in the field of state aid in material distress. These benefits must become an exceptional means for situations where, for objective reasons, the beneficiary cannot obtain income through his own practice or business, or when low income is not sufficient to cover the basic needs of life for himself, for his children and his loved ones. The current legislative setting in the field of benefits of assistance in material distress allows, in many respects, the purposeful and fraudulent conduct of beneficiaries and applicants for such benefits. These benefits are thus abused in many cases, as we have detailed evidence from the employment authorities in particular. And now for the very content of the proposal of our novel. We propose that the obligation of parents to properly ensure the attendance of their children to the final year of the kindergarten should be added to the obligation to qualify for benefits in material distress, which is often an essential measure in terms of socialisation of these children and their integration into society in the direction of preparation for the mastery of the primary school. We also want to enable the employment office to exclude those persons who have violated the work regime and the temporary inability to fulfil the job seeker's obligations because of sickness or injury during their acquisition. The present legislation does not allow those persons who have repeatedly violated the rules of the unemployed labour regime to be excluded from the circle of persons entitled to receive benefits of assistance in material distress. Last year's detailed review of the Labour Office revealed that this was more than a quarter of these cases. Furthermore, we also want to admit to the employment office the possibility of excluding those persons who remain in work incapacity after the expiry of the period corresponding to the maximum support period for receiving so-called. sickness, which is 730 calendar days consecutive. On the basis of information from the employment office, it is no exception that many persons remain in a disability regime e.g. Over five years old. We also propose to speed up and simplify the procedure for excluding certain persons from the range of recipients of benefits in material distress or from the so-called circuit. jointly assessed persons if they do not comply with the conditions laid down by law for such persons. This exclusion depends on the current adjustment. the administrative discretion of the authority of assistance in material distress is not automatic and fixed. Similarly, our amendment introduces tightening the procedure of withdrawal or reduction of the dose of assistance in material distress, respectively. refusal of an application for such a benefit if the recipient of the benefit or the applicant for it does not give the authority, in a material emergency, consent to the entry into the dwelling and makes it impossible to carry out a social investigation at a place intended to verify the facts relevant for the entitlement to the benefit concerned. We propose to exclude such persons directly from the circle of persons in material distress, and we also require an extension of the period during which the physical distress benefit can be withdrawn or reduced, from the current three months to a much more noticeable period of one year. At the next point we propose to exclude from the circuit so called. jointly assessed persons who do not grant any income, do not work long-term, do not do business and do not look for work and only want to achieve an increase in the calculation of the existential minimum and so-called. part of the livelihood of the person and the persons considered together, and thus the total income of the family from the benefits of assistance in material distress, e.g. In those families where only a minor child is in material need. They are also persons who are not in the register of the Labour Office because they have been excluded from it for non-compliance or breach of certain obligations. Finally, we propose to introduce an obligation to include among the income of the applicant for benefits of assistance in material distress as well as income from the benefits of foster care, so far in those cases when it comes to foster care within the family. This measure is aimed in particular at the so-called speculative fostering and its purpose is to ensure that related foster parents have to include, among their income determined to grant benefits in material distress, income from foster care benefits. This proposal is also based on the fact that the remuneration of a foster child is assessed as a standard income from dependent activity, for example. for the purposes of income tax or social security insurance. Therefore, we do not see why this should be otherwise from the point of view of the law on aid in a material need, and it is an unwarranted exception. Ladies and gentlemen, we certainly do not oppose further discussion, for example. in the Committee on Social Policy and we certainly do not resist further cooperation with you, so I beg you to support and release until further reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u3	I thank the plaintiff's representative and now, with priority rights, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Tomio Okamura. A colleague of Bauer's still standing by. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, and the end of the abuse of benefits. Inadaptable people are the long-term theme of our SPD movement and I am glad that after many years of trying, our bill has finally reached its first reading. And I wanted to ask you to release him to us until further reading, because I think that, despite political affiliation, most citizens of the Czech Republic would welcome this to be resolved because I believe that a decent and working person must be first in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u5	Thank you, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Tomio Okamur. Mr Jan Bauer is now duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u6	Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, my dear colleagues, I have already spoken about this proposal in February of this year in the first reading, when I expressed the view that it is appropriate for this proposal to be released until further reading, but let me mention only one interesting thing. When we talked about this in February and when I performed that chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - 313 in the budget spending page is 690 billion. CZK that it is approximately 44 percent of the state budget, that the 690 billion. CZK is approximately 94 percent of the mandatorial expenditure, which means that there is nothing we can do about it and that we spend approximately 460 billion per year on Czech pensions alone. CZK and that the difference between 2019 and 2020 in this chapter is an increase of about 8 percent, so I would like to say that the financing of this chapter, which is dominant, 44 percent in the state budget, is very problematic in the long term and that it is worth dealing with certain savings under this chapter. In February, when we talked about it, the state budget deficit was 40 billion. Crowns. The difference between the first reading started then and today's first reading is approximately 240 billion. CZK, because the current approved state budget and its deficit are 300 billion. CZK, but we have seen that the Minister of Finance has announced that the state budget deficit will not be 300, but maybe 500 billion. Crowns. Why am I talking about this? I think it is a great pity that the topics that we have now had to move away for many reasons, such as the address of benefits, such as the abuse of social benefits, such as pension reform, but also others, have not been able to deal with and come up with them at a time when we had a deficit of 40 billion. And unfortunately, in my opinion, we will not be able to escape these topics and, after I assume, the situation in this country, but also throughout the EU, we will have to revisit these unpleasant topics, such as the financing of social services, pension reform, etc., but, contrary to the difference in February of this year, we will do so in an economic situation where the deficit of the Czech Republic will be about 500 billion. CZK, which is an incomparable economic situation. Just so you know, when we were looking for billions a few months ago for retirement reform, I feel like 200 billion. CZK can be built - I do not believe it - one block of a nuclear power plant in Dukovany and among others. For 100 billion. The first phase of pension reform could be resolved. We were like this about two months ago, and we're completely different. That's why I don't think we're gonna miss this unpleasant topic again. After all, the Civil Democratic Party has also come up with its proposal to look at savings in the context of the abuse of social benefits. It is our working title three times and enough, and for this reason I would like to lean towards releasing this proposal, which is very similar to that of the Citizen's Democratic Party, because even the unpleasant issues after these economic problems have passed away will have to be dealt with by this country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u7	And now Minister Jana Maláčová reports with priority rights and Mr Radek Rozvoral will be prepared. Last applications so far. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say that we all agree that social benefits should, in particular, be support for those who cannot work, that this is how the system should work, and for those who can work, so that they can work, but at the same time, and I think that it is not only a social democratic priority so that they can live with dignity for their wages, so that people who work honestly can pay all their bills, to support their families. That means the system is simple. Social benefits are intended to help people who cannot work, and those who work must have a dignified wage. That's why I think we're clear. We were preparing a government proposal to revise the so-called Social benefits, however, I had a press conference this morning, where I mentioned the figures of current unemployment in May. And those numbers are still very decent - 3,6 percent per month of May, but it's not a condition that should lull us. You know that the forecasts of almost all economists say that we will face seven, eight, perhaps 10% unemployment in the autumn of this year. For this reason, I think it is the government's main task to get rid of this situation so that people who do not themselves lose their jobs get support from the state. Because people who did everything right - working, trying to feed their families - come about because of the sudden situation where we had to shut down the economy from one day to the next, they need to have good support from the state if they actually end up in labor offices. And I think that should really be our priority at this point in time to get the economy back on track so that we can avert the economic damage. I think we all agree that, safe, healthy, epidemiologically, we've managed the whole sudden situation, the coronation crisis, to a great one, but now we have to handle the second front, the economic one. This means that people don't lose their jobs so that the economy doesn't fall into a crisis, and that will be the main mission. And if people lose their jobs because of the virus, not because they did something wrong, but because of the virus, because they're gonna lose their jobs, so that we can find new jobs for them as soon as possible and help them respond to this situation. That's what I think should be the government's priority right now, and I, as the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, will do my best. However, on these proposals, it has also been said here by several previous speakers, we continue to work, none of these proposals are suspended: pension reform, benefit revision, amendment to the Social Services Act. Everything is running and I very much hope that we will present these proposals in the coming weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u9	Mr Radek Rozvoral will now appear. I don't have another application. Mr. Ambassador... Well, yes and please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear government, the SPD movement is putting forward to the Chamber of Deputies drafts of laws that are beneficial to our citizens, which is also confirmed by the amendment governing the law on material distress. At the same time, we will allow the State to act as a proper economic operator in the context of the payment of social benefits, since a specific social benefit should also have a specific beneficiary who fulfils the criteria for granting it. This amendment to the law on aid in material distress is one of the important changes to the laws prepared by the SPD movement or already submitted to the House. The aim is to re-establish the welfare system so as to support only those who really need help, and to stop the abuse of social benefits by physically healthy individuals capable of working. In fact, in some regions, systemic abuse of social benefits took place specifically. The generous support of the state leads to the fact that people who do not want to work are sick, short-term or long-term first. This allows them to avoid employment offered by the employment office. Even though they don't send children to school, they don't give them money for lunch, but they like to buy cigarettes and alcohol themselves. On the other hand, the really needy person makes it difficult for the state to do so. For example, some pensioners often have terrifyingly low pensions, under 10,000 a month, and they no longer have the opportunity to earn money because they need complex and lengthy health problems. This is what the SPD seeks to remedy the draft pension insurance law, which would introduce a minimum pension. [[12.20 hours]] Let me stress once again that only those who really need social benefits must be paid. Those who cannot work for objective reasons. And the social system should motivate the others to look for and keep their jobs. The amendment to the Law on material distress should therefore be the beginning of how we return social benefits to their proper role for the whole society and individuals. Ladies and gentlemen, SPD Member Lucie Šafránková has processed and submitted a draft amendment to Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended and supplements. This is the House Press 652, on which the government has expressed a neutral position. The proposed changes should contribute to increasing the address of the corresponding benefits, reducing the volume of State-paid funds for physical aid benefits, reducing the number of beneficiaries of these benefits and limiting them only to persons who have temporarily found themselves without self-inflicted material distress and who are actively seeking to get out of this situation by themselves. Mrs Lucie Šafránková spoke in detail about the proposed changes to avoid possible abuse of benefits. All of these measures proposed by us should make a significant contribution to their implementation in the legal order to reducing public expenditure in the field of benefits of aid in material distress. According to estimates by competent workers in this area, there is abuse of the system of payment of benefits in material distress between 20 and 30 percent of the recipients of these benefits. The SPD's movement promotes the state to behave as a proper economic operator and therefore has submitted this proposal for an amendment to the law on material distress. Saved funds could be used to benefit those who really need and deserve help from the state. That is why I am asking you to release this bill to second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u11	So now I'm going to read the modification of the apology. Minister of the Interior Hamáček changes today's apology and today the Minister of the Interior will attend the meeting from 11.30 pm. I now have two applications for the general debate. Mr Pavel Plzák and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared. And Mrs Aulická. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u12	Good morning. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, you may have registered this, some may not have registered it, but I turned to you about six months ago by e-mail and to everyone, I sent you a letter, one could say a call for help, signed by the mayor of Úpice and both directors of the local elementary schools. The city has about 5,000 inhabitants and is in my electoral region. But by that letter they looked to you all because of the situation in the so-called. The excluded localities that were created in their city no longer know what to do. And he sees the biggest problem in neglecting school attendance of children from these families. What are you gonna do if there's assistants waiting in those schools, and those kids just don't come to that school? And there's no God, if I say so, that would force parents who don't get up in the morning and go to work to make the kids get up and go to that school. And there's a whole bunch of other problems. I just want to ask you, because I've also intersected the Minister on this matter, and after my interpellation, the answer was not significant - maybe something is going on, something isn't - basically off record told me that the problem is that she doesn't really know what to do with it, and she said that we should try to make a suggestion. We didn't design it, it was designed by SPD colleagues. But I myself very much intercede for the law to go through the whole legislative process and come to an end. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u13	And now - I have here the two applications still, so Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík and Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the motivation of the proposal. However, the situation in which it was presented and the current situation - we are talking about the country's economic situation - is significantly different. At a time when there was absolutely minimal unemployment - and I really understand the citizens' reservations, it also gets to me that, uh, workers simply avoid work, and sometimes it also happens in our system and doesn't vote, so on the other hand, we're expecting an influx of tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands of people into the aid system, but now the problem is solved from the other side, so for example. the extra instant aid benefit has made available to those applicants, and I'm afraid this proposal is going a little bit, a little bit in the opposite direction. I think, especially in a situation where unemployment is going to grow rapidly, we should consider whether these conditions have not changed and whether there is no need to prepare the system for a situation with higher unemployment and a higher proportion of people who would like to work, but unfortunately there is no work for them. That is why I propose to return this proposal to the recast.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u15	Now I have two factual points. First of all, it is Mr Marek Novák and, secondly, Mrs Karla Maříková, who is still prepared by Mrs Aulická. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u16	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'm just taking a short look at my colleague Ferjenčík. So what's the problem? I didn't quite understand your speech through the President. So can you explain to me the difference between the fact that there is an attempt to stop the abuse of benefits and the fact that you want people who deserve them to receive benefits? I don't see the difference. I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u17	Now, Mrs Karla Maříková, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must respond to Mr Ferjenčík over there through Mr President. The law suggests that the benefits be prevented by those who abuse them. So I don't know how my previous speaker really said, what's the problem? The unemployed have lost their jobs because of the coronavirus pandemic, I assume they won't be abused. And if so, then the law is right. If they want to abuse them, then they should be disabled as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u19	Now, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, on a factual basis. And Mrs Aulická is still the last to be prepared. Please, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll try to give a brief answer to a colleague who asked me what I meant. I mean, Mr. Rozvoral has spoken. I suspect 20 to 30 percent of the people who allegedly abuse the benefits. This is in the current situation where unemployment is extremely low and, indeed, only a small proportion of the working population is asking for these benefits at all. In my opinion, when the circle of people who are going to be asked spreads sharply, the circle of abusers and the proportion of the total number of applicants will drop sharply, and I'm more concerned about not excluding people who really need it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u21	So another point of fact, that is just one point, Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Please, your two minutes. And Mr Marek Novák will prepare himself for a factual one. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u22	Thank you. With your help, Mr Ferjenčík, if this law goes into second reading, there are committees where you can, we can discuss it together with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and there is the possibility of making amendments. So just to get back to work, that there's another way, if it passes, that law, that bill, that's gonna keep working on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u23	So now Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Mr. Novák, has stáhnout. Please. And it is still ready, Mrs Aulická. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u24	Thank you for the floor. Since the ANO movement obviously wants to move on, I suggest that if my proposal for a re-evaluation is not passed, I suggest that we extend the time limits by 20 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u25	I'll make a note of it. And now here I have two factual points - Mr Jiří Bláha and Mr Pavel Plzák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I am really glad that we have here an amendment to the law on aid in material distress, because in my experience, we have really learned to take advantage of everything in thirty years of building a new type of socialism. It's just been two days since I met a guy I know very well, who's been unemployed for six months, taking benefits, and making another CZK 30,000 a month on the side. It's just the way it is in our society, we all take advantage of everything. And just think, when a craftsman comes to you, what do you say to him when he tells you - it'll cost you 240 or 200, I mean a thousand. What are you gonna tell him? So that's how benefits work in material distress. If there's anything I can touch, I'm gonna touch it and everyone will do it. So let's be tolerant of what's proposed, let's work on it. And I think that together we can make it fit those who are honest, because it is those who work honestly and are disgusted by the way we treat those who abuse it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u27	I now have two factual points - three, Mr Pavel Plzák, Mrs Olga Richterová, and then Mr Jan Bauer will be prepared as the third Member. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u28	I'm sorry to talk about the Úpice. I know there's a lot of places like this in the country, the socially excluded, but... The stakes are in my electoral region, and they're turning to me. But I am with my colleague Ferjenčík through Mr President. Before you start saying overwork, reject and so forth, your colleague Martin Jiránek, whom I don't see here, is actually from my constituency. Tell him to get there before you start Úpice it. Was he there? He wasn't. Have him talk to the mayor, go to the principals' school, see the teachers, go out in the field and tell them you don't want it. Tell them you don't want it, that you'll fight it. You'll see what election results you'll have there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u29	Now, Mrs Olga Richterová and Mr Jan Bauer will be ready. I've got two actual ones so far. So please, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u30	Back to the facts. Of course, we know in the Pirát that we have a big problem in a number of locations, it's more regional. Mrs Aulická is witnessing that I am not avoiding these localities and we are not closing our eyes to reality. But please, what has been said here as concrete examples of problems is the problem of enforcement, is the problem of proper compliance with the system today. So what sounds like abuse here is the failure of the practical performance of the state administration, unfortunately. But we have to admit this. There is no need, and therefore we propose that we return to recast, speak straight about the change in the system in terms of the legislative regulation, because we rather need to give functional tools to the labour authorities and functional tools to the municipalities to recover, but not to cut the adjustment of aid in material distress so that even those who get into the real emergency do not get to that. That's why I was happy here yesterday that we were talking about extra immediate help, because many of you are witnessing that even those who would need help quickly and effectively are not getting help today. And yet the legal framework isn't so bad. They could get her, but the practice is different. And it's exactly the same now from the opposite point of view. Again, those who shouldn't be getting help here, but they're getting it, so there's no problem with the setup. It can be taken, withdrawn, it can be controlled, but the problem is that this real control and this real recovery is not happening. And that's what we should be dealing with, not that no one gets any help at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u31	I'll recap now. I have four applications for factual notes here, so let's just say it. Mr Jan Bauer will be the first to speak, Mr Pavel Plzák, Mr Jiří Bláha and Mr Tomáš Kohoutek will be prepared. So, Mr. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u32	Just back to the facts. I would hate to break this bill, but I have to correct my previous speaker. In this state, if someone repeatedly commits serious offenses, steals, permanently gets drunk, harasses neighbors, then according to the applicable legislation, his dose cannot be withdrawn. Among other things, this is the proposal tabled by the Civil Democratic Party a year ago. I just wanted to say that after those two months when we are dealing with really fatal and fundamental things - and some things are doing well, some things are doing wrong, some things aren't about this point - so we're going to have to go back to the topics that haven't been dealt with here in the long run. I am just reminding you that the solution to excluded localities and the seventeen measures to address these locations are simply a government priority even for Prime Minister Babiš. And let's face it, nothing really happened until now. Now we have two months' worth of status, apart from the fact that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has submitted a new fee or a new housing levy, and that is why the Committee on Social Policy has fallen, that if the government does not do anything, there will be unique parliamentary proposals, because the excluded localities and other vices are fundamentally bothering us. I just wanted to say that, regardless of whether unemployment is 2, 3 or 10 percent in the Czech Republic - and I would be terribly sorry if unemployment went up - I would always hate that parents who receive benefits do not send their children to school. It doesn't have a straight line, whether unemployment is high or low. It's just that parents are supposed to send their kids to school, and that's what the benefits are supposed to be. This, among other things, is the proposal made by Minister Maláčová, as I have studied it well - a new housing levy. This is what our proposal is about, among other things, and if I have studied it correctly, the proposal presented by Lucie Šafránková is also coming into this area. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u33	We now have five factual points, so Mr Pavel Plzák, Mr Jiří Bláha will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u34	Very briefly and lastly to Mrs Richterová. You're saying it's actually a mistake to use the tools we have so far. I think we're doing this the wrong way. I don't know, maybe you're half right, but there's no way you can get your kids to school if your parents tell you they're sick. How can you do that? He doesn't come for 14 days. How can you do that? And actually, you don't have any leverage over those parents. Some removals of children from families, and I don't deal with social areas, confess, some removals of children from families, etc., is such a peak that nobody wants to go there. Some criminal reports, they tried it from the school once, and the Rom guy came to threaten them six months before the house. So it's really not an easy act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u35	So Mr. Jiří Bláha will now appear. I have a total of six factual points here. So please, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes, and Mr. Tomáš Kohoutek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u36	Colleagues, colleagues, I believe that fellow pirates cannot still have so much experience in life, because their age is a little smaller, but I would really recommend, through Mr President, that they go to the offices of work, to officials, to go to employers and to their personnel departments, and there they will learn everything. If we don't want an army of civil servants here who will scan every family every day and peek at everyone's houses under wraps and watch every day whether they're doing this and that, that means we're not going to have a new one like StB here, then we just can't do it with really forceful steps, changes in the terms of the contributions, whatever it is. It really can't be done. I work with these people who go to the employment office for 30 years, and believe me, we've tried thousands of things together with the employment office. The Czech man always finds a way around it. And it's nothing against you, really. It's just about the experience of you meeting it every day. And believe that what the officials at the employment office tell you is not enough to be surprised. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u37	Mr Tomáš Kohoutek will now appear, Mr Jan Schiller will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u38	Good afternoon, Mr President, colleagues, colleagues. I would like to respond to Mrs Richterová and Mr Ferjenčík through you. I live in Ústí Region, I live in Decin. In some comparison, Decin is still a decent city. You're saying it's a system error. Even in our Děčín we have hundreds of members, members of families, where there are at least two generations of children, parents and people who do not work. And yes, that may be the only fault in the system that we have a generous social system for people who do not dare (?). But tell those workers at the employment office, Social Services - do you know how it works now that after the coroner, they're supposed to start paying back and admitting benefits? There must have been four patrols of the city's officers there, because of course you'll find those people who are all lashing out by being all racist, and those people are just gonna stomp on those doses. And the fact that there are nonprofit organizations that advise these people how to draw all benefits is simply reality. You may come to excluded locations sometimes. We were together in Varnsdorf last year. And how did that go? In some of the socially excluded localities, even these residents learned that some people from Prague were coming, so they ordered cleaners, cleaners to make it look like it. And then it all looks beautiful. But if you live in these locations, you know 30 years is nothing to do with it. And it's a black road to hell, because it's always going to be a problem that's going to grow. I do not want to see that one day we will get into a situation like that in France, such as in Western Europe in other locations where we have similar problems with certain groups of people. And it's just that until we teach these people that there are no pies without work, that's not gonna change in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u39	Mr Jan Schiller will now make a point of fact and Mrs Iva Kalátová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u40	Hello. I'm sorry, my colleague took 90 percent of everything I wanted to say. I'm from Most, it's the same thing. I don't blame you for doing this. I believe that and I know that you are dealing with this issue. I would just like to ask you, Mr President, Mr Ferjenčík and Mrs Richterová - do not blame us for wanting to move this to second reading, because if we reject it here, we may not be able to get there in this parliamentary term. And we've been waiting a long time for that. We've been waiting so long to actually solve the situation there. We don't deal with it, we live there. That's the problem. We really live there with these people, and we actually see it every day. You, more or less, as said here, will come, look, someone will write you some emails, and you think you already know all about the situation. You don't know. You really don't know, the reality is completely different. That's why we want it to really go to second reading. We also want to extend the deadline and we want you to discuss this in committee. Tell yourself everything, tell yourself the cases that are there. You're really gonna open them all up, and you're gonna have thousands of them. Everyone's gonna be different. But you don't want to convince us that we should take it down now and reject it. We'll never get to it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u41	Mrs Iva Kalátová will now appear, and Mrs Olga Richterová will be ready. I will only read quickly who is next - Mr Marek Novák, Mr František Navrkal. That's all. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u42	Hello, everyone. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I happen to be standing here in front of you as a Member, but in the fall of 2011, I became mayor of a socially excluded locality in Rotava. What is a socially excluded location? It is a locality where the number of social benefits paid is above average, and so is crime, I think over the average of the Czech Republic, and so is unemployment. I experienced unemployment of 18 percent, crime and benefits paid - we were somewhere at the top of the country. When you come in and start acting mayor, the first question you ask yourself is that people leave town and move elsewhere - why is that, what can you do? What can you do to keep this person - answer the basic question: has a job, has a place to live, can raise children, has certain social conditions? He just thinks this town is a good place for his life. But when you start dealing with these things and you find that you can't help the majority population because, above all, you're helping someone else, you're in an impossible situation and you do what? You're trying to get rid of these people from your location. That's wrong. Let's talk about this. I welcome and thank you for finding the courage and opening this question here. My blood pressure's about 220/120, so I'd rather end it and ask you to face it, even if it's unpleasant! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u43	I will now ask for the speech of Mrs Olga Richterová, Mr Marek Novák will prepare, František Navrkal and Mrs Eva Fialová, for the time being four applications for de facto. Mrs Aulická is still waiting. So please, your two minutes, Madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u44	Really, really briefly. I will say again, we do not deny the existence of the problem. We know very well - we also have Members from every region here - that the situation near excluded localities is like a pressure pot. I'm just trying to say over and over that the cuts of the pen in the law won't solve it. What we could fix was the circle of persons considered together for the housing allowance. That's what we did. That was a real hole. The only thing I call for us to remember in our efforts to change something is that we must not, first of all, throw it together, because just as good and bad officials are, so are people who ask for justice and people who do not ask for justice. This just has to be different all the time. I also wanted to say that the real solution at the legislative level is not in aid in material distress, but rather in related laws. Maybe a lot important for mayors is permanent residence, what is the record of real residence versus the fiction of permanent residence. And that's a question for the Home Office, that's not in this law at all. So let me get this straight. We do not think that we will solve tens of thousands of life's stressful situations, bad patterns experienced, and then the years of frustration of people living in the neighborhood. It's just gonna be a long job for our entire company. I'd really be sorry to pretend that by tightening up the conditions, we're gonna be able to make a big difference. The transformation of life in these regions - it will simply be a long work and systemic support for municipalities. That's what I'm trying to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u45	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Now, Mr František Navrkal and Mrs Eva Fialová will prepare herself and then Mrs Karla Maříková, three applications so far. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. So, honourable Members, I would turn only through the Vice-President to my colleague Kohoutek, because, like my previous speaker, I do not think that there are any problems that are in Děčín and elsewhere with socially excluded localities that we cannot help (?) by tightening the scheme for the payment of benefits. This is not the cause of socially excluded localities. So, as far as you can save any public money, theoretically. Yeah? Rather, I would recommend to Mr Kohoutek that he focus on some positive activities that will help those people who are in some kind of bad life situation. [[A commotion in the hall.]] For example, in order for the city of Děčín under current management to develop some important activities that will actually contribute to the situation, not only tighten up some scheme for the payment of benefits. That seems completely stupid to me. If you see this as a solution to the problem, then I really don't see it as a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u47	I will now request a performance by Mrs Eva Fialová, she was registered from her place to her actual place. Mr Jaroslav Foldyna will be prepared, then Mrs Karla Maříková, Mr Radek Zlesák and Mr Marek Novák will be prepared. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u48	I thank you for the floor, and I am quite glad that a Member from my Ústí Region appeared before me. Through, Mr President, that is sad. About a year ago, I tried my own experiment on my skin and moved for six months to an excluded locality for poor traders. The stories I heard there were countless. How to use, how to request and so on. But on the other hand, I have to agree with Olga Richterová here that there are cases that can't be thrown together, and there are a lot of people worth saving. But what's happening on the outside is rusty. What most majors see, and the other residents in that city, is terrible, and nothing really happens. I'm here to call on the Ministry: Let's put this press on second reading, because we finally have something on the table. Let's bone him up for what you don't like. I'm not a supporter of cutting everything off because there are really people who can get into a difficult situation and need the help of the state, but let's look for an effective tool to change this once and for all with the Ministry, with representatives of all the political parties. And let's finally agree on how to solve this problem once, and let's show that we are able to help another group of people, which is just above the poverty line and which almost nobody here is dealing with. They try, and they see every day what is happening in the Ústí Region. Let's go, I'm begging the secretary, please, if she could step forward. And let's extend the time to discuss this press. [[Attention on time.]] Let's go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u49	Now I have some factual points here. No, no. First they're factual, then they'll have priority rights. So, in fact, I have four here, Madam Secretary, so you're going to be the fifth in line at this point, but the factual ones have priority under the Rules of Procedure, so that's five. Now MP Jaroslav Foldyna, then - I will read it. Member Karla Maříková, Member Lesák, Member Novák, Member Ferjenčík, Member Válek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I've listened carefully, I've been eating my ears. I am also a Member of the Ústí Region as I am a colleague of Kohoutek from Děčín. I also learned that I was a Member of Děčín Navrkal. I didn't know that because I didn't know Mr. Navrkal until yesterday. [[Laughter from the left, raising the voice.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the situation, the colleagues would like the sugar, and it looks like you, you and I like the whip. The whip is to cut off the existing law, redefine those things, and force people who can work to work, and support those who can't work. That's all this is about! That's all this is about! It is disastrous in the Ústí Region, as a result of secondary social and security issues, where honest and decent people of the same group are blamed, and the dishonest ones live like pigs in the Rye! Because in 30 years, we've created a range of doses for them. And I've been co-responsible here for that, which is why I've been looking for new ways out. It is impossible to tolerate infinity that people who can work for 10, 15 years do not work, their children look at it, and there is nothing we can do. There's nothing we can do. So now we have the opportunity to move this bill to second reading and solve the basics. I want Děčín and Ústí Region to be as beautiful as Central Bohemia, but so far it's a trash can thanks to these laws and gadgets that have accumulated here in 30 years. Thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u51	Now, Mrs Karla Maříková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will respond to my previous speakers. Dr. Richterová here said we're throwing everyone in the same bag. We're proposing a law here to prevent abuse of these benefits. And if someone is using them, then it's necessary to set the parameters so that it doesn't happen. And I'm surprised anybody's still upset that some rules are to be set so people don't take advantage of the benefits. I appeal to all of you to release the law for second reading, to discuss it in the committees and, if necessary, what you want to change there, you can propose amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u53	Mr Radek Zlesák will now appear. Mr Marek Novák, Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Válek, Mr Kalousek, will be prepared, and then with the special right of the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must respond to the words of my colleague Richterová, and to good and bad officials. In that context, it may have seemed that it was the bad officials who were responsible for the state of the art. But that's not true. Try to have some fun with an official who starts his career entering the social department. He's usually a highly qualified man with ideals and wants to change the world. And try to have fun with him in two years. I don't think you'll recognize a bigger racist. And it's because the legislation, our legislation, isn't good in this regard, so it forces people to see the tunnel, to make sure they don't get into conflict. If there's a way we can change that, let's change that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u55	I will now request a speech from Mr Marek Novák. Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u56	I just want my fellow pirates to understand quickly because I overheard: we have tools, we just don't know how to use them. We've got some tools I could compare to maybe a pirate ship with a ripped sail. Well, we just want to give the boat a new sail. Please understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u57	Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will now appear, Mr Vlastimil Válek, Member Kalousek, Member Bláha will be next in line. I have these four facts right here. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I agree, I understand the frustration, I agree that the excluded localities and at all the State's approach to those regions that are structurally affected, as the modern term is, is one of our country's greatest challenges. And we really need to focus on that. At the same time, however, it must be said that the hope that this will be resolved by the amount of benefits when the main problems are in the field of education and housing is false hope. In my opinion, it is unfortunate that this very complex issue, which needs to be dealt with as a government priority, reduces itself to one simple law that will prevent abuse, and that will solve everything. Part of these problems will shift to crime because criminality will rise in part. This is also a factor that the taxpayers will then pay. And we can't close our eyes to the fact that the connections will be there. It's gonna have a different impact, too. It's gonna have some impact on the kids who live there. I understand absolutely the people who live in the neighborhood of the troubled neighborhoods, and it's difficult for them. I'm trying to help them too, but I don't want us to simplify the problem this way. Second thing. Mrs. Fialová spoke of the fact that no one is dealing with these people just above the border. So I would like to remind you that yesterday we had a very long and detailed debate about the support of the negotiators, which are typically those people just above the border. And the ANO movement blocked it from getting any support from the negotiators.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u59	Now I'll read the apology. Mr Josef Hájek apologizes between 13:30 and 19:00 for work reasons. I will now request a speech from Mr Vlastimil Válek. Member Kalousek, Bláha, Member Kalátová, Richterová and Member Holík will be ready. So now we have the order of six factual points. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u60	I am sorry - and thank you for the floor, Mr President - that I will hold off for a moment. But the opportunity for me to thank the Member - through Mr President - from the coalition and from the opposition, i.e. Mrs Fialová and Mrs Richterová, is not going to happen many times. So, through Mr President, I would like to thank both ladies for the speech. I totally support it. Social activity always has two stages for me. A phase of expectations and a stage of disappointment. That's just how it is, and it's hard to do anything about it. The stage of disappointment discourages a person and often falls into frustration and ends as some of you have talked about it. However, this does not mean that he should resign to the phase of expectations. It's still kind of cimrmanical. I would like to say that we can look at this with a double perspective, and I am extremely glad that both ladies are looking at it the same way, even if they say so, at least I think it's a little different. [[13.00 hours]] Social aid can be defined either by figuring out how to best affect those who abuse it or by figuring out how to best help those who need it. If we invent it in such a way that we want to affect as many people as possible who abuse it, often those who need it will take a ride with it. Unfortunately, if we invent it to help those who need it as much as possible, a lot of people will still use it. Both ways are possible. I will always support the journey to help everyone who needs it, and I am aware that I will be frustrated with being abused. It is an endless journey, it will never be resolved, but I will support the displacement of this law to second reading, because I think that discussion is necessary, it is necessary for us to discuss it, it is necessary on the outside, and I understand that it will not be easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u61	I will now request a speech from Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Foldyna sighed that he would also like the Dečín region to be as beautiful as the Central Bohemia Region. I, by your means, Mr President, would have told the honourable Member not to be envious. You know, there's something everywhere. We have Jermanová Pokorná in Central Bohemia. One doesn't choose.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u63	Good afternoon. I would like to ask that we stick to the subject in factual remarks. And now, Mr Bláha, with a point of fact, then Mrs Kalátová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u64	I won't talk much longer. I just want to say one crucial thing to everyone that I think is the most important thing. If we want to change the situation, we need to change the conditions for one simple reason only. If we force those who today take advantage of the benefits to go to work, we will actually raise a new generation of those who have abused it so that it is normal for them to have their parents working and working for them. Because today, the whole generation we're talking about is treating life like it's normal to go to the welfare office. And you can't change that by telling him to go to college. You won't. 'Cause it's easier than going to college to get the money straight. And believe it and think about how it is needed in families that are rich. If the children of those parents who have achieved something want to move on, too. Mostly not much, 'cause they're just fine. And so believe that the best and most important thing we can do for those who are in bad shape today is to force them to work, helping future generations, but also our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u65	With another remark, Mrs Kalátová. Mrs Richterová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's a good thing it's for two minutes, while I was calming down, so I'm just gonna put you in the picture. Sokolovsko has two municipalities with extended scope: Sokolov and adjacent municipalities, Kraslice and seven municipalities, there are only 13 thousand of us living there. You buy the apartment for 80,000, the rent from the city is CZK 28 per square metre. Yet, as the dosages are set, you are perfectly easy to hide in the employment office because there is no work. Triola closed, Lace Kraslice closed, glassworks in Oloví closed. How's Amati-Denak, I think you know. So this historical development has determined us to commute to work in the direction of Germany, the direction of Sokolov, Karlovy Vary, it's all been half an hour. So a lot of people who are in our employment records are there, too, because there's just no job. As long as it's better to be on the job register as a so-called job applicant, and I'm still bringing home more than the job, there's absolutely nothing that makes me go to that job. I invite you to visit us through the President, we have about fifty apartments available, and let's talk about how we live in a socially excluded locality. Otherwise, I'm willing to offer help to any solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u67	Thank you. Mrs Richterová, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Holík. [[Questions from the newsstand.]] We still have four factual points, including this one. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u68	Really very, very briefly. We are all ten in favour of the maximum support of municipalities to be given as much opportunity as possible to support all their citizens at their discretion. We are well aware that the people of the group of the poorest, the people who are trying to work, try to keep the others somehow, are having an incredibly hard time in Usteck and Karlovy Vary, and that the feeling of injustice they are experiencing is enormous. I understand for myself that many of you want the law because of this frustration, and you let it into the next reading. I'm just trying to make this House, as we are here, realize that by adding words - by tightening up checks, by preventing administrative discretion in some cases - we can really cause very unfair situations, that this is a really sensitive thing, even for a lot of disabled pensioners who also take different benefits. I know it's the law on material distress, but that's what those who have the disability pension get into without pay. So I'm just trying to draw your attention to the fact that this is going to have a lot of connection, that it's going to take a really very, very targeted debate, and that in the end, the real solution is to support the municipalities. That's why I mentioned the connections to the Ministry of the Interior, and that's why, ultimately, the solution for children and for the future of this country, the promotion of education, the maximum inspiration for those schools near excluded localities, and right in them, which achieve above-average results and succeed in getting the children to finish school, went to high school, at least to an apprentice. And here we have to inspire ourselves with the good practices, that's what's most important in the end. And I'd like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u69	Thank you. Mr Holík, Mrs Fialová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 30 years ago, political groups changed here. The new group is trying to make it fairer, trying to have greater social security for the population, but I guess we didn't grow up so far that everyone would understand it the same way. I will return a little, two or three years ago, until our national income grew by 4% in the Czech Republic, it worked here because we were short of people, half a million foreigners, while unemployment was almost 3%. Why? We've raised people who don't want to work, who just want to take advantage of the benefits. And if we don't take the first step at least now, it's gonna be very bad. If my colleague Ferjenčík allows, I would address him through the President. Mr. Colleague, threatening to increase crime here, don't be mad at me, but diplomatically - that's very smiling.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u71	The next is Mrs Fialová, Mr Schiller will be prepared, which is the last point in fact at the moment. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u72	Thank you for the floor. I will, through you, Mr President, speak to Mr Ferjenčík. I'm so happy that you're interested in other citizens' problems and you're solving the problems. I want to challenge you, or I want to offer you an offer at this point: come on in this experiment. I'm gonna get you an apartment, and I'm gonna pay for it all the time before this law comes to second reading. [[A round of applause from members of the YES.]] And then let's talk constructively about how effectively we really set those parameters. 'Cause I'm gonna say again that nothing is black and white. There's nothing. And you'll see stories from one side to the other. And I'm even going to save because it's going to be over the summer period because there won't be that high energy backups because in the winter, these apartments are drowning directly. I'm really giving it to you as an offer, and I'm dead serious. And if we're gonna talk about how it's gonna be, I'm gonna get you that apartment, I'm gonna be able to do it tomorrow, we can make a deal, and you got this offer from me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u73	Sorry. [[The President spoke and didn't have the microphone on.]] I ask the Members not to shout at each other or speak over the microphone. Mr Schiller is applied for, then Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u74	Thank you. Maybe it was supposed to turn out the other way. I know that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u75	Sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u76	I haven't said anything yet. But we know we're going to vote on him. I'm more sorry that you guys are actually acting like pirát here, as such, that you want to discuss this. So I don't understand that you were making this proposal. I only wanted to see Mr. Kalousek through you, he's not here anymore, but I'm kind of sorry... We don't envy him. We don't envy you. That Decin is beautiful. He's got the whole Usteck County thing going on. And if you actually got there, you'd be surprised how beautiful it is. And then there's that note about the Central Bohemia region. I would, Mr. Kalousek, by your means, even if you're not here, press the tear. Be lucky to have her there, Mrs. Jermanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u77	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, then Mrs Richterová. And Mr. Foldyna, who applied, cancels that. Okay. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mrs. Fialová's challenge calls for an answer, so I'll answer. Allow me first to consult my wife about whether we will move to an excluded location.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u79	Mrs Richterová - this is the last point in fact. [[Big noise in the hall.]] prosit klid down. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u80	I'd like to ask you, now that you've all turned so much attention to those excluded regions, let's pay attention to the fact that the real future solution is the support of schools, how real field work works, so that there's really enough money for assistants, without which there's no need for these schools, and then for the support of higher education...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u81	Madam, I understand. I will ask the House once again for peace. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u82	...to support the transition to high school, to study as an apprentice. And again, they need to... In Kadani they did, in Kadani they did...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u83	Please don't shout! Madam, I will give you time again, because I understand that this has been difficult. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u84	Thank you. I want to give a positive example here. It's okay. In Kadani, they were able to arrange for the cancelled teaching field, which was suitable for children from families with such a more negative attitude towards education, to return it and to really arrange employment at city companies, to start those young people, to just start work and not to fall out after school and not know how to get a little sensible work. And here we have to spread the good ways. And what I really want to say is this message that, despite this cooperation between schools, municipalities and the fact that the state will support it systemically a lot, long-term, not projectly, but long-term, we will not move any further. And just as part of that nut besides education is also to accept the fact that people who seem to be able to work sometimes have such a low competence that it is simply necessary to create some tool in order to make jobs for these kinds of people work in the long run. Without that, the way forward will hardly be possible. And I know there's a lot of ways to go about it. But without helping them more from the House, there will never be enough money in the budget. But that's the system change. And then the third aspect is that we really don't really put it in one bag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u85	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Kohoutek, then Mr Munzar, with factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u86	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. Through you to Mrs Olza Richterová. Madame, does anyone prevent these children from going to school from being poor or socially excluded? Does anyone forbid them from going to those schools? We have special educators. We have a famous inclusion. If those families can't get school supplies, they get a school bag, they go to the authorities where they get special donations. Isn't it more so that - I dare say - that majority society and children in majority society and decent people are raised so, learn, go to school, learn to be well in life? Isn't it more about the fact that some groups of residents have it so, why would you go to school? It's easy when you're 15, when you're 16, get a kid, the state will take care of you. Because the mantra of everything is that the state has to take care of single mothers. That's it. And you're saying a lot of people don't have powers and can't get a job. Check any online journals. And in connection with the coronation crisis, it says everywhere: thousands of foreign workers will be missing in agricultural fields. I don't think anyone needs a college to work in the fields and agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u87	Thank you. Mr Munzar with a point of fact, then Mrs Richterová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u88	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I want to respond to Mrs Richterová through you. I'm glad you appreciate, for example, the Mayor of Kadana for the ODS. And many mayors, and not just for our side, but for all sides, are struggling a lot with how the system is set up. And I just want to say one thing. We've created a social network here, but unfortunately, there's a group of people who, instead of a social network, consider it a bottomless box they want to take from, but they don't have to put anything in it. And that's where I think the law is headed. Please let us release this as quickly as possible until further reading, and then on the Social Committee, discuss individual cases so that it doesn't really hurt anyone again. But let's move this proposal forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u89	Thank you. Mrs Richterová, with a factual point, then Mr Bělobrádek. That's all the facts at the moment. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u90	Quite briefly indeed. When we know that going to school is the basic way forward for our entire society, knowing that unfinished school education means costs for public budgets of CZK 13 million per life - that's the government's number from the big analysis - we just have to deal with the ways that work. And it doesn't feel like it's gonna do any good if we're throwing accusations around here. What's good is when we present a solution. And the solutions are verified. Only in individual schools in individual municipalities. And they don't have really big system support here. I know it's hard work, it's gonna take a while. But nothing but to focus on the school's association and then the appropriate high schools and sometimes the support of graduates' employment doesn't get us out of these vicious circles. And on this one, I'm showing that if we want to focus on the kids, and I want to focus on those young people who don't have the foundation that we want, then we have to look for a positive solution and not just say, they're doing it wrong. It doesn't help anything. And I'm done. I think this debate has really been enough.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u91	Thank you. Mr Bělobrádek, then Mr Rais came forward with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u92	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, colleagues, I think everyone is upset if things happen that people come and see people taking advantage of benefits, so obviously it upsets everyone who is low-income and has the same income as those who go to work, so-called working poverty. [[only Minister Maláčová and Dostálová are present in the government bench]] On the other hand, if you want to do something about it, you must realize that it also has some connection. Yes, there are generations that don't go to school, they don't have any schools. When you're born a Rom, you have a relatively small chance of graduating high school, almost zero college, which is slim, and so on. But if we were born into such a family, what would we be? Would we be able to graduate from college when we're born into a family like this? This means that not only the result can be removed, but also the cause. And it's a long-term thing. And in that way, it really takes not only whip, but sugar. And long-term work is needed. [[13.20 hours]] And look where it works. It's usually associated with some missions, long-term social work. Because on the one hand, you also have to realize how it's gonna turn out. That means, when you lower the dosage, some people will just steal more. If you lower the dosage, it will also touch those who are supposed to receive it rightly. How will you distinguish them? That means, I'm sure it's a big problem. I don't like it either. I had neighbors like that. I had people staying in my house that maybe some people wouldn't even lean on their bike, leave themselves there when they didn't have a place to live, but basically you always have to see things from both sides. That means working with these people, they're people, too. And those who are unable to adapt in any way must, of course, come across. But they also need to be worked with. You can't just do what you say: everything is wrong. If such a social experiment existed as if it couldn't be done, I'd like to see your children grow up in such families as they would be. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u93	Thank you. Mr Rais withdrew his comment. At this point, we have exhausted the factual points, so now with the right of priority, Minister Maláčová... Yes, and then it is Mrs Aulická's turn, unless a new battle of factual remarks flares up. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u94	Thank you, Mr President. I think the debate shows that reality and reality really aren't black and white. It's not easy. I confirm what Mrs Fialová said, and I think that is the best course of action. Let's take this SPD proposal, which is now in the House, let's put it into further reading, let's disembowel it - I apologize for the expression - because there are a lot, lots of well-meaning proposals that are wrong written but would turn especially against seniors, and those I firmly hope do not want to hurt, especially those who pay high rents, because they live in large cities, and let's go with those who want to change the current situation - and I have already worked with most of you on this government proposal, it is Mrs Fialová, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, but also Mrs Richterová - let's copy together the government proposal, which is now in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, because there are hundreds, hundreds of comments, and let's find a solution together that will not hurt those who do not deserve it, seniors, disabled and so on and so on, but at the same time it will set up a normal state when the school will go to work. So I propose this procedure - the Ministry can prepare it and write it properly - so that we can move this bill forward to further reading, empty it, gut it, and prepare a comprehensive amendment that will achieve the state on which we all agree. To make it normal to go to school, to work normally, he did not harm those who do not deserve it, but at the same time he corrected those feelings of injustice that many of us are experiencing. And the issue isn't black and white. It's not easy. In two years of ministering, I've circled dozens of excluded locations. It really is very difficult, and I think that the municipalities deserve a tool to get out of this hopeless situation. So that people who go to work don't feel like idiots, too, because they're trying to earn an honest living. But at the same time, we must help those who are also born into this hopeless situation. So, please, let's go with the common forces, with the support of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, to use this carrier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u95	Thank you and now Mrs Aulická.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to respond to Mr Bláha through Mr President. I think that was your first point of fact. Before 1989, it was an obligation to work. If it were now an obligation to work, we would not be talking about the abuse of social benefits. It's just maybe a kind of discussion comment on your actual point of view. And now I might say, well, I'm from the Ústí Region. We all know what kind of trouble we're in. The mayor, or the mayor, spoke here for the Karlovy Vary Region. I see another one here. We all know what the problems are, the problems of the children. It's not really black and white. There are a lot of problems, but we all know that it's truancy, weirdness, poverty at the same time, which gets deeper because of this crime and above all, and if we don't admit it, it's a bare fact, it's a drug addiction. Because these people - and it doesn't matter if they are Rom or if we're talking about majority societies, it's really not just a Romani issue - so we get that this group of people is just constantly growing and all these areas - education, social, health - are barely sure what to do about it anymore. Clear responsibilities and clear rules must be set so that everyone knows what to do and how to behave. Unfortunately, even if the school can try as it pleases, the child simply returns to the group, to the family, which, to a greater extent, has been pulling him back into his lifestyle since the fourth year. We all know very well that at the age of 15, the children leave for our employment office, because it is not necessary and especially necessary for the family to lose their benefits, and we often realize that they are leaving the seventh grade because they cannot actually fail below, because you can now fail at each stage under legal legislation only once. We're glad he can sign. They often can't even do this. Forms that are classic or somewhere to fill out, or if they happen to want to fill out a job, that's not possible. They go to fill out the basics of the information that the city is setting up, and without the help of other people, these people simply do not function mostly. [[capable of:]] It is also true that we must realise that there must be another alternative to working with these people. That means I'm seeing it, or I've always said that it's necessary to adopt a law on social enterprise at the same time as restrictions, because it's necessary to work with these people. That means yes, you're going to work, or you're going to continue to study. But for that, we need a group that just needs to be financed. There's a change of life, but you have to, it's a really long-term job. And today we see the social workers who are in those cities, the towns, how they think they have positive energy when they find two or three people who can find jobs, find housing, and keep them in it. And they say, good, we have something in us, it's pouring out the new blood to keep going. But these people, these families are thousands. And we really need to realize that we really need to do other things with these restrictions, which will also solve these problems. [[Noise in the hall.]] We have, for example, a beautiful example in the Ústí Region, in Mosteck, where we are talking about tearing down the entire settlement of Genoa. Maybe you were there. We were there in 2015 with the Committee on Social Policy. Everyone saw it. I warned everyone who went to those apartments not to touch anything, more or less, so they wouldn't put anything down, because bugs and other things that there -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u97	Madam, I dare to interrupt you. Noise in the hall does not allow your speech to be paid attention to the House. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u98	Thank you. - who just live there so they don't take home with them. Some colleagues and colleagues wondered that I was overreacting. It really is. And unfortunately, it is not a question of housing sites or houses where these people live in most cases, but unfortunately it is also a bare fact and the daily reality of the common population, precisely because one family is enough to move into this house, God forbid it will bring furniture that lies by the trash cans, move it into the house, and we are dealing with nothing but deratization, deratisation and deratisation. And in most cases, it's the city or the community, or, of course, it's the association of the owners of the units, but we also know that we can't enter the apartment if the one doesn't open it to us. It won't. So we're doing it over and over and over again. And these are the constant mischiefs, and that may be what Bauer's proposal also responds to, which also says about the normal cohabitation. These people are really unhappy. That's what you get for the day. You don't get any sleep, you get laughed at, you walk around drugged people, you're afraid to let your kids in at all, but you don't do anything. They're threatening you. They say we're gonna fire you, we're gonna destroy you, this house is all ours. And that's really the daily bread we're experiencing, and it's not pleasant when you want to be a so-called normal person who sends his kids to school who wants them to graduate and who wants to go to work, but at the same time here you have a group that is constantly growing and de facto doing what they want. [[13.30 hours]] I'm very sorry about the officials - the clerks, I'm sorry, 99 percent of them are mostly women at the employment offices, because they're really taking it away the most. I'm not surprised it's hard to get those people in there. And we have to say that there's really a little bit of stabilization in the Ústí Region right now, so anyway, it was a big problem, because the after-training fluctuations and the finding out what the job is about and how much money it is, so who would do it? And yes, we have the biggest problem in Prague, because the funds that the clerks in Prague are taking today are completely trivial. If you're talking about $20,000, then tell me who in Prague would be doing this, and with this kind of population composition. I'm not saying that everyone, of course, but unfortunately, to a large extent, it is. I would also like to say that we are not capable, and we have to admit this openly - 100 percent of people. There should just be clear rules: you want to help - we help you, you don't want - can't stand to save 100 percent of people. Of course, they need to know that there are certain restrictions that they carry, which means you don't want to live decently - you're not going to live. It's just a fact. And I am very sorry that some nonprofit organizations constantly have the need to save 100 percent of people and say - we must, we must. It just can't be done! You can't, and we have to admit it someday. I may have wanted to respond to a colleague from the Karlovy Vary Region. We were in the Ústí Region with the Health Committee, with the Social Committee, talking about 15 measures to combat poverty. We're not allowed in the Ústí Region anymore. Those were just promises. We brought five ministers there! Five ministries that promised to do something! Nothing's been done until now. And I believe you're inviting us to Karlovy Vary, but you're about to say, "Don't come, because you haven't done anything for us yet." So maybe we thank you for that, but I really don't see it as an asset. In 2015, when we also dealt with the decline in mining, when it was prevented from benefiting from the Czechoslovak army mine, so we said the impact as it will be etc. We had a social committee there, we all knew the arguments. Anyway, the government has decided otherwise, and maybe you have some help that you're dealing with under Sokolov coal right now, I'm not entirely aware, or I can't see anything that would have come up with the right shift, because you yourself said what everything was done there, what was made, and there's nothing there today. So that's the big problem. For me, I suggest, and it has been said here by my colleague Ferjenčík, that the negotiations on this proposal be extended by 20 days. We were really negotiating across, I don't think there's a problem. We want to sort of compare it a little bit with Mr. Bauer's proposal. I'm sorry that the promised proposal from the MPSV, the housing benefit, maybe even the coronavirus disappeared completely. The Minister said he would prepare a comprehensive amendment. We'll see. Of course we'll discuss it, she'll probably have everyone's opinions. However, in any event, I would like to say that I personally have the amendments prepared for this legislative proposal. It is consulted with our Ústí Region, because, as has already been said in the previous negotiations, it is not really legally well written, and as it is written, it really cannot be adopted into the form of legislative, that is, those fundamental adjustments must be made, but in principle I think that the ideas that are there must be taken quite seriously. And we are really going to vote today as a KSČM club for it to pass at first reading, and for an extension of those 20 days. So I thank you, and I believe that today we will end the debate, that we will say a lot of things to each other at the meeting of the Social Policy Committee. Anyway, if we focus all this on that September and there are other things that are about to open up to us, we're also looking at unemployment, which is going to increase a lot, which is a bare fact, which is, in any case, an area that we can't forget. Because if we don't do something by the end of the year, we won't do anything again next year. And we all know it. You will pursue the election campaign and all laws that will not be discussed will fall under the table. So for me, for the Ústí Region, I ask you to let this proposal into second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u99	Thank you. And now, with the factual remark of Mr Bělobrádek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u100	Thank you. If there was a job obligation, there would be a lot of people here pretending to work, and she was formally employed, but she wouldn't really do it anyway. So I'm sure that's not the answer. And the other thing. If anyone's looking forward to the location system again, I'm not. And the third thing. This problem is really huge, and it's been for generations. Remember, too, when we hooked up with him, I think the Communists should admit when it started, when part of those people started moving here, and how long, how long it was that they came to the city's national committee and they said, well, we don't, so we give them. And that's how they behaved, and it's a matter of several generations. You need to work with these people, you need to get as many of them as you can to get these kids to go to school, to educate themselves, to pull themselves out of that system that really is very demotivating to them, because they see a few generations that they can live like this, that they're happy. And I completely agree that everyone who lived next door to those people or who knows there are such locations in Náchod - I also lived next door to them - we all know the problems are here. But it's not only possible to isolate them or push them into the ground because we're going to have a feedback. We need to work with them, we need as much help as possible for those people who are capable of doing so, and we need to really start from those children. Yes, those conditions are terrible. But if you say you're gonna push them into even greater social poverty, there's gonna be some kind of counter-reaction. And the kids are gonna take it again. We have to make sure that if they get housing benefits, so that they pay rent to get the money and pay to understand the price of money, that if they do something, they get something for it, sugar and whip, that means they have to have both options. With these people working socially, working with them in the long run, working with them in families, and not just making some quick, simple intervention that won't work anyway. That's a false solution. This is a false solution that de facto can never work. That's the way it's gonna be. Look at other countries, how it turned out. It means it has to have not only A, it has to have B. There has to be repression and prevention. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u101	Thank you. With a point of fact, Vice-President Filip. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u102	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I simply have to say that I agree with the conclusion that my colleague Bělobrádek said that there was no obligation to work here. On the other hand, there was a law that said what sustenance was. That was it. And I think that in the balance of legal income and criminal sanctions of those who do not want to work and want to live at the expense of someone else, that is exactly what society expects of us. Because whether we go one way or the other way and reject the other way, we can never get the right result.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u103	Thank you. And I feel that I have yet to hear from Mrs Šafránková for the debate. It's not like that. In that case, if no one else is going into the debate, I am ending the general debate and I am asking if there is an interest in the final words. Mrs Šafránková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u104	Thank you, fellow Members, for a very fruitful and important debate. I would like to say that I very much appreciate this debate, because I have actually worked on this amendment for a long period of months, and I have really talked to many employees of labour offices, social services unions and many educators. And they all agree on one thing -- even if we really want to, we're making an effort, so unfortunately, we're growing more and more generations of those who just won't be able to have work habits, even if they can work. And without legislative support in the law, we're not gonna make it. And that's why I'm begging you once more for support, let's let it go to the next reading, and let's work on it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u105	Thank you. I'll ask if there's an interest in the final word from the rapporteur. It's not. In that case, I will call my colleagues to the ballroom because we have a vote to make. There's a checkout request. I've checked you all out, please log in with your cards again. First of all, we have a vote on the proposal to return the applicant for work, which Mr Ferjenčík submitted. And when the number of entries is settled, I will be able to begin the vote. It seems that Members are still arriving in the hall, so I will repeat once again what we will be voting on. We shall vote on the return of the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 129 Members and Members in the 198 vote, for 21, against 95. The motion was denied. And now we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest a commandment to another committee? Mr Bartošek? [[Wrong - he was about to vote. Laughter.]] No, it's not, so let's vote. [[Note to the messenger. Raise.]] Suggestions for the microphone, please! [[He doesn't want to get out.]] It's also not for the guarantee committee. So it's a guarantee committee. It is a proposal from the Organising Committee that the Guarantee Committee be a Committee on Social Policy. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 199 vote, 132 Members and Members are registered, for 130, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been directed to the Social Policy Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, but Mr Rais has a proposal for another committee. I'm asking him to come forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u106	Hello. Given the issue and also the discussion, it is quite clear that this would also be part of the school committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u107	Yeah, well, the Education Committee and other things, I'm not gonna remember the whole thing right now. Does anyone else have a proposal for another committee? Mr. MP. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u108	Thank you. I would propose a committee on public administration and regional development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u109	Okay. So the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, too. Any other suggestions for the next committee? Mr. MP...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u110	I would like to propose a discussion in the Committee on Budgets, given that it has an impact on the state budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u111	Okay, budget committee. Mrs Černochová is still reporting. Quiet in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u112	Thank you. Don't worry, I won't suggest a defense committee, I'll design a security committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u113	Okay. I'll write it all down so I don't forget anything. They were committees for... Mr Ferjenčík is still reporting. Please. So at this point, we have a Committee on Education, Regional Development, Budget and Security proposed. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u114	I think it is also appropriate to address the aspect of crime, which is why I propose a committee of constitutional law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-006-176.u115	The Constitutional and Legal Committee. Okay. There. And if there are no further proposals, then we will be voting on the proposals gradually in the order that they have been tabled. I'm asking for peace. We will vote first on whether we will also propose to the Education Committee as the next committee. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 200, 131 Members and Members are registered, for 119, against no one. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, we will vote on the commandment of the Committee on Regional Development. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 201, 131 Members and Members are registered, for 125, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. The next is a motion for a commandment to the Committee on Budgets. Initiating vote. I ask who is for the commandment to the Committee on Budgets. Who's against it? In the vote number 202, 131 Members and Members are registered, for 43, against 17. The motion was not accepted. The Security Committee was also proposed. Initiating vote. I ask who is for the commandment of the Security Committee. Who's against it? In the vote number 203, 131 Members and Members are registered, for 43, against 17. Nor has this proposal been adopted. And another was a motion for a commandment to the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Initiating vote. I ask who is next to this committee for the commandment. Who's against it? In the vote number 204, 131 Members and Members are registered, for 37, against 39. This proposal was rejected. This has dealt with all the proposals for other committees, so I note that we have ordered the Committee on Education and the Committee on Regional Development as other committees. And now we have a proposal that has been made in the debate to extend the time limits for committee discussions. There's a 20-day extension proposal for 50 days, if I'm not mistaken. So I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In this vote number 205, 132 Members and Members are registered, for 124, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I note that we have therefore extended the deadline for committee discussions by 20 days. Thank you. This was the last vote at this reading, on this point, so I thank the appellant, thank the rapporteur, and I am closing this point. And we move on to the next point in the remaining time, which is
