ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-009-999.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 209, 211 and 207 of the House prints 766, 774 and 753/ I don't see anyone logged in, but Mrs. Věra Kovářová reporting. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-009-999.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to ask you to vote after 19 o'clock until the debate of this House press, or these three, on account of the fact that we do not have to drag the two gentlemen back here again, after all, the traffic is becoming dense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-009-999.u3	So I understand that there is a procedural proposal for us to vote today after 7:00. However, it must be the proposal of two parliamentary clubs. You're joining us? [[Members of the Pirates.]] So I understand that this is a proposal from the STAN and Pirates. I'm gonna sing. I'll check you out. So just to be precise, rapporteur, is this the case, after 19 o'clock, until the discussion of all three prints? Is that how I'm supposed to take it? [[Yes. Checkout request.]] Well, I already checked you out once, so I checked you out again and sign up with my voting cards again. I think we're in sufficient numbers here. [[Noise in the hall.]] Initiating vote. Who's up for it after 19 o'clock? Who's against it? Voting number 137, 136 Members registered, for 59, against 18. The motion was denied. We have an open general debate. However, I do not see anybody registered to the general debate except for Minister Alena Schillerová, who has claimed priority rights. And then also Minister Havlíček. Madam Secretary, you have the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-009-999.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, may I comment on the proposal of the representatives of Liberec, Pardubice, Zlinsky Region - did I leave someone out? - to amend Act No. 243/2000 Coll., on budgetary determination of taxes, as amended. He has been processed in order to increase the tax revenue of the regions by establishing new shares of the regions in the tax on road and excise duty on mineral oils of 8,92 %, proposing a new methodology for the distribution of tax income between individual regions. [[Big noise in the hall.]] First of all, I must say that with all these three proposals, the Government has expressed a disagreeable position. And since these are quite identical proposals, these regional legal initiatives in the House of Deputies should be discussed at once, which has also happened, and I welcome that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-009-999.u5	I'm gonna ask you to calm down in the courtroom, because you really can't hear me here. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-009-999.u6	As I recall, they were rejected by the government unanimously. Why did the government give a negative opinion on these proposals? Let me explain. The adoption of the proposal, which is, of course, primary, would have a negative impact on the state budget and, in particular, on the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure of CZK minus CZK 8.55 billion, with a negative impact on the state budget of CZK 7.97 billion and on the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure of CZK 0.58 billion. I don't have to stress that we're at a critical time. In the end, it also fell from Mr. Governor's side that the proposal was filed before this pandemic broke out. But we are at this time, and we have to say that this time is critical. And it's a time when the state carries enormous costs to ensure the health of the population, to ensure the operation of security forces, to save programs for entrepreneurs, businesses, and so on. You all know about them. You voted on most of them here. Some of them are grant programs, so the government voted on them. But, of course, they're all publicly known and available. We are currently only within the limits of gross estimates of the real impact of the pandemic on the economy of the Czech Republic. In the current situation, therefore, the state budget deficit cannot be further deepened. And if this step were not to take place, there would have to be a discussion at government level about possible cuts, or a deepening of the deficit, especially the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. So I assume that my fellow government officer, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček, will also comment on this issue, because it would, of course, be very sensitive to him. Thus, even the humiliation of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure's income cannot be agreed. The reason is generally a high need for resources to finance transport infrastructure from the budget of this state fund, such as construction, maintenance of motorways, roads and railways owned by the State. These investments, especially in these uncertain times, cannot be jeopardised. And investment will be precisely what will move our country's economy further, not only from the state budget, but also from ammunition. And we're counting on it. We're counting. We had a very important meeting today. We'll continue tomorrow morning. And we're counting on the support of the budget to ammunition, but in a different way. We'll announce them as soon as we agree, which should really be in the order of days. At the same time, it is not possible to agree with the justification for the need to increase the budgetary determination of taxes for the regions mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. This is mainly based on the claim that the regions have been transferred in the past without adequate financial resources, in particular the transfer of the roads of the second and third classes to the property of the regions, and that the method of determining the existing shares of the regions in shared taxes cannot be demonstrated. Well, in this place, I beg to differ. And I can't forgive the following recap. These roads gradually went to the region in two stages of the reform of the public administration - competences, facilities and with them financial resources of CZK 39.6 billion, expressed at the starting level of 2005, all traceable in the archives of the Ministry of Finance - thus defining the tax shares in the respective tax revenues so that they could exercise these competences separately. The above took place at the expense of the State budget share. It must also be pointed out that the tax revenues of the regions grew dynamically over time. Between 2005 and 2019 the tax revenues of the regions increased to CZK 75 billion, i.e. by CZK 35.4 billion, which is almost 90 percent. Between 2018 and 2019 the tax revenue of the regions allocated through the budgetary determination of taxes increased by 8.7 %, which is CZK 6 billion. Yet the sources that the regions receive in their budgetary determination of taxes are often downgraded on their part, which puts pressure on the constant additional resources from the state budget, which, in the current situation - I am sending in particular in the current situation - simply unbearable. The procedure for determining the proportion of the regions in the specified part of the shared taxes is traceable in the relevant Houses of thousands, i.e. House print number 974 of 2001 and number 747 of 2004, as amended by the amendments adopted. It is clear from the above-mentioned prints that the regions have received, within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes, the means of repairing, investing and for the organisation of the administration and maintenance of regional roads. The whole process of the construction of the budgetary determination of taxes for the regions was discussed in detail with the then representatives of individual regions. In this context, it is also worth recalling that from 2010 onwards, sufficient funds were provided to the regions and the capital of Prague from the state budget, free resources from the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure and IROP, namely between 2010 and 2019 for transport services of CZK 27,3 billion and from 2015 to 2019 for the repair and maintenance of the roads of the second and third classes of CZK 18.4 billion, i.e. plus 0.42 billion in 2017 as compensation for this amount, as compensation for wages for drivers, of which there is a clear double-trackity in financing the area. And this certainly was not the intention in implementing the reform of the public administration. It's just been forgotten over the years. [[18.50 hours]] But, of course, the Ministry of Finance tried to increase these funds beyond the RUD, which is traceable in the archives of the Ministry of Finance, and I quote from the press of that time, from the explanatory reports. So it's not true that roads with no means have been transferred.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-009-999.u7	I'm gonna ask you to calm down! Madam Secretary can't speak calmly. I'm begging you once more for peace! We've got ten minutes left, so let's just hang in there!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-009-999.u8	I must also point out strongly that the current form of the proposal makes its application impossible in practice, in particular for the following reasons. The proposal does not specify the method of publication of the percentages of individual regions, either for a given year or for a longer period. Secondly, the procedure for calculating the proportion of the regions in the specified parts of the income of shared taxes described in the new paragraph 2 of Section 3 is not unambiguous and may lead to incorrect interpretation. The terms for the share, yield and percentage are confused and are also e.g. from gross yield deducted percentage. Thirdly, the problem is also with a source of data on the length of the second and third classes' roads. The legislation in force does not explicitly require the Czech Statistical Office to keep a draft forecast register of the length of the roads of the second and third classes of the region, which is published only in the Statistical Yearbook, with an annual delay. Let me finish by saying I don't want to dig ditches between government and individual regions here. We are ready to discuss it, we have already discussed it today, we will negotiate tomorrow, indeed in the order of days, not just about subsidy policy, not just about compensation for the municipalities, because the debate about so-called. A compensation bonus that I won't repeat because it sounded here, and I assume it's still going to be. And, of course, we are ready to support the regions in the second and third class roads, an important amount, which will be set up to be not only for 2020 but also for 2021, so that the regions can plan this. But I had to remind you of this history. The history was and existed, and now it's just repeating itself. She repeats herself as evergreen regularly, that would change the RUD, I would say in a legislative and technically incorrect way. It would cause these problems that I've defined here, and then in a few years it would be forgotten again and we'd be doing the same thing again. It's just a roundabout and evergreen that comes back every year. I don't want to push it. I mean, we will support the regions, we will support the roads of the second and third classes, not only in 2020, but also for 2021, a very significant amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-009-999.u9	I will now read the applications for priority rights that I have in my order - it is Minister Karel Havlíček, Minister Klára Dostálová, Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura and Chairman of Rakušan Mr. So, of course, we have one factual point, which is also the chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. So, your two minutes, Mr. Chairman. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-009-999.u10	It's not easy to react and not laugh. What the Minister finally told us: I have described to you the history that was what it was. And what's that for? No use at all, Madam Secretary. But the story keeps repeating itself. Why choose a simple solution when we have a more complex solution that will force the captains to polish the handles? Because the secretary says we'll send the money. But it's not easy for him to budget it and send it to the county and county councils and the authorities to handle it. No, we're smarter. You're going to write grant applications, it's going to cost you, whether from your own resources, that you'll have your officials, our officials will evaluate it, other officials will control it - so we'll employ a lot of people, maybe it's in the fight against unemployment. But it's not productive. We may have reservations about technology - this can be fixed in the second reading of the amendments. But if the government's serious about sending the money to those counties, let's just do it this easy by changing the law. Not grant titles. I sit with my colleagues at the Supervisory Board of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. For those 4 billion - which the government so boasts, and rightly, I do not criticize - these are the hundreds of applications that someone writes, the hundreds of applications that someone is assessing, we then vote on them. And hundreds of applications that will then be checked by someone. What's the point? I'd understand a duel when the government says, "I won't give the countryside anything!" And I'm against it. I can understand that. But the government says, "We'll give you the money, but watch out, watch out, you'll write your requests in humiliation and we'll judge them." And if you're angry, we're not gonna give them to you because we're gonna find some kind of technical problem. And that's the same dispute that was here last week about compensation for municipalities. Instead of doing this simply and having confidence - and the key word is trust: either I believe the council can handle it on its own or we have the smartest in Prague. [[Time warning]] And I'm on the side of trust. I know it's 18.55. Thank you, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-009-999.u11	No, no, that's because your two-minute limit is up. I'm just gonna read one apology. From 19 o'clock to the end of the meeting, Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková apologises. However, we agreed only until 7:00 p.m. So I have three factual points here. So that's basically going to be the program for tonight's performances. Mr Vít Rakušan for de facto, Mr Vojtěch Filip and Zbyněk Stanjura, President of ODS, will be prepared once more. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-009-999.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, that's the context of what we've been experiencing over the last few weeks. We will simply take responsibility for municipalities, regions, towns in the Czech Republic, but we will promise that we will somehow send the money to those municipalities and cities. That, in turn, is the centralization of power, the centralization of financial flows in this country. Here comes the proposal of three regional councils, which has a clear solution to the situation. After all, you would free the captains from the annual humiliated trip to Prague to come and talk to you and ask them to let them have a crown on those circuit roads of the second and third classes they have to manage. For a while it would look like they wouldn't get anything, but then you give them something graciously, you tie them up, they'll be extremely grateful, and they'll go home again. But it can be done systemically. We can change the budgetary determination of taxes for the regions and they will be entitled to the money by law. And it's still the same song for weeks. We compensate the municipalities, the regions, the cities on subsidies. Why? So don't take the money away from them, leave it to them, or just order it through a new budget determination! They'll handle it, trust them. They are under the day-to-day direct control of citizens. Because it is simply visible for their investments in cities, municipalities and regions throughout the Czech Republic. These aren't some big state hungry walls no one can see. People check them here every day. Please don't hide the pile in Prague, send it down, they'll deal with it. And they can do it more efficiently than you can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-009-999.u13	The Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip will now make a point of fact. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-009-999.u14	Thank you. I hate to take the floor with Deputy Prime Minister Karel Havlíček, but I have to. You know, this is where we talk about how we put it on those roads of second and third classes. I remember the debate when the second pillar was broken, which was dysfunctional, and for the first time we gave money to develop the roads of the second and third classes. Of course, we suggested that it be really functional in some way, so that it would have a system. But, of course, we can say the same way if we give it to the regions and they do it, or if we give it directly centrally and we manage the second and third classes for those regions. Of course, that's possible! Well, then we're gonna have to go crazy here. [[19.00 hours]] This is not about this proposal. This is not about this proposal. This is about what kind of system we want to introduce here, because we see, of course, that in repairs to the roads of the first classes or motorways, the decision of the regional authorities does not follow us to get on that highway. So that's what this is all about! That's what it's all about. So one or the other system. And it's really not like we can approve it from one water clean. Don't be mad at me, I didn't mean to be ahead of Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, but I had to, because, yes, we have to implement the system, but it's not a system about smacking the taxes we send you, and you say, but we could have made our own decisions. It's not really like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-009-999.u15	Then President Stanjura has the floor. It's fifty-nine, but I'll have to stop you later. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-009-999.u16	But if we let the press go to second reading...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-009-999.u17	Okay, it's 19 o'clock. Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. [[Member Stanjura outside the microphone is speaking to the President.]] So you have a minute of fifty-eight, you're left with the actual, I'll mark it this way so you can hear it in the organizational department. That's why I repeated the ones with priority rights. So I'm interrupting the meeting. Have a lovely evening, and I'll see you tomorrow at 9:00 in the morning.
