ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 159/2020 Coll., on compensation bonus in relation to crisis measures in relation to the occurrence of SARS CoV-2 coronavirus, as amended /German press 921/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 On behalf of the Government, the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová will make the proposal, which I am asking to take the floor. [[The Minister is discussing with Mr Kolovratník.]] Madam Secretary, when your colleague Kolovratník stops humming into you... Yes, Madam Secretary, you have the floor. I will also ask Mr Kamal Farhan's rapporteur to take his place at the rapporteur's table. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Let me briefly present the proposal for an amendment to the Compensation Bonus Act, which aims to extend the range of entities entitled to a compensatory bonus, to persons working on an employment agreement or to a work agreement if they are obliged to pay sickness insurance premiums. So at DPČ it is up to CZK 3,000, at DPP from CZK 10,000. The compensation bonus could thus be applied newly to persons who worked for at least four months in the six months preceding the Coronavirus crisis, i.e. from 1 October to 31 March, provided that this activity was limited or prevented, for example by termination of the employer's cooperation, due to the crisis situation. Similarly to the compensation bonus for entrepreneurs, persons who perform other jobs in addition to DPP and DPČ, while respecting the exception for foster parents and voluntary care workers, are excluded. The proposal also aims at people who were excluded from the existing support for entrepreneurs in the form of a compensatory bonus for the self-employed and small partners s.r.o. due to the co-operation of business activities and work on DPP and DPČ. Unlike ordinary employees, these persons did not fulfil the conditions of the Antivirus programme, so they remained without support. The compensation bonus for persons with DPP or DPČ is proposed in the amount of CZK 350 per day, which at the total length of both bonus periods, that is from 12 March to 8 June 2020, can climb up to a maximum of CZK 31 150 per person. The management of the compensatory bonus will be carried out in a similar way as was the case with the compensatory bonus for entrepreneurs, which means that it remains a proven and functioning model. However, in view of the fact that the Financial Administration of persons working on the DPP or DPČ has virtually no data in the register, it will be necessary to provide evidence of a copy of the relevant agreements and payrolls, or other confirmations, to fulfil the conditions on their part. [[9.10 hours]] Thanks to the transitional provision, persons who are newly entitled to a compensatory bonus as a result of the amendment are guaranteed a minimum period of three months after the amendment is effective for applying for a compensatory bonus. The budgetary implications of the bill are estimated at a maximum of 2.1 billion. CZK for public budgets, of which 1.4 billion. CZK for the state budget, 0.5 billion. CZK on municipal budgets and 0.2 billion. the budgets of the regions. In response to this, the proposal also includes an increase in the existing compensation for municipalities by CZK 50 per capita, which is from CZK 1,200 to CZK 1,250, which will mean exactly CZK 0.5 billion. for the state budget. I would like to ask you for the support of the material presented. This is a change that has been discussed across the political spectrum and it is not appropriate to postpone its adoption. That is why we have taken the liberty of proposing that the draft amendment be approved by the Chamber of Deputies at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u3	I thank you and ask the rapporteur, Mr Kamal Farhan, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. We have here a draft law amending Act No. 159/2020 Coll. on compensation bonus in connection with crisis measures in relation to the occurrence of coronavirus. Law 159/2020 granted the so-called compensation bonus to self-employed persons. The second amendment of this law extended the scope of the compensatory bonus entities also to the partners of selected limited liability companies. None of the above mentioned aid is directed to persons carrying out work under an agreement on the performance of work or an agreement on work, which was due to an emergency situation caused by the Coronavirus epidemic, to a reduction or total loss of income from this activity, although it is an employee within the meaning of Section 5 of Act No. 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, as amended. As the Minister has already described in detail here, I would say briefly that, for this reason, the Act on Compensation Bonus was amended to mitigate the effects of events related to the emergence and spread of COVID-19 caused by SARS-CoV-2 on persons carrying out work on the basis of an agreement on the execution of work or an agreement on the performance of work, which, due to the exceptional situation caused by the Corona epidemic, had been reduced or the total loss of income from this activity, and this failure was not compensated by any of the series of support measures. At the same time, this must be the kind of work that creates participation in sickness insurance and thus the creation of a corresponding contribution to public budgets. This link ensures the necessary minimum level of control by the public administration. And as has already been mentioned here, we should discuss this in accordance with Section 90. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which Mrs Šafránková is empowered, with priority right for the SPD, to deliver the opinion of the MP. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Member -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u7	I'll stop you for a moment. Please, we've already started the meeting, there's a meeting, please calm down in the hall!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u8	Thank you. On behalf of the SPD MP, I welcome the government's last-minute submission to us of this amendment, which, finally, four months after the outbreak of the emergency state of the coronavirus, will mean specific financial assistance in the form of a compensatory bonus for employees working on labour and work-related agreements, as well as the extension of a circle of people who will achieve a compensatory bonus for tradesmen and limited liability companies who, in addition to their business, also partially work on these agreements and who have so far been without any assistance from the state, many of them then completely without income. In this sense, it can be said that the famous ones are not twelve in five minutes, but rather at least three quarters per one. We in the SPD have been fighting hard for this thing since March. I myself have repeatedly tabled a number of amendments on this matter to the individual laws that the government Members have always rejected, just as they rejected the SPD's proposal to include an extraordinary point in the House meeting, which would deal with the urgent assistance of these citizens. The government has long ignored this and de facto discriminated against these citizens. So it is a sad fact that this help comes very late. A large number of citizens to whom it is intended have already gone into serious existential problems, had to be indebted under disadvantageous conditions or in a complex and humiliating way to ask - often unsuccessfully - for social benefits. These are honest working people who have been paying taxes and compulsory insurance contributions for years. In addition to its delay, this government proposal also contains some shortcomings. The biggest of them is that the bonus for self-employed people and eseróček partners is not entitled again to those entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who earn part-time jobs in a classic employment relationship, which in practice means that a businessman who works for some form of insured income agreement, for example, 10,000 a month, will now be entitled to financial assistance from the state, whereas another businessman who does the exact same job at the same workplace and with the same income, but in the context of an employment relationship, will not be entitled to financial assistance from the state. Doesn't that seem illogical to you? For these reasons, I was prepared today to submit an appropriate amendment, which I have already drawn up and which would eliminate this discrimination by granting a compensation bonus of CZK 44.5,000 to self-employed and partners of part-time eseróceks. This would be treated with a maximum monthly gross income of up to CZK 14,600, which is the minimum wage value. After all, I made a similar proposal in April. Again, there is no reason for this present injustice, because in both cases these are persons who work alongside their business as employees duly paying taxes, health and social insurance. This means that there is absolutely no difference in their legal and economic position vis-à-vis the State and, moreover, in the vast majority of cases, their income from employment is completely comparable if not identical. However, if the government wants to discuss this amendment in a short procedure and approve it at first reading, there is now a big dilemma. Either insist on standard negotiations and then apply properly to this amendment, but at the same time significantly extend the waiting of other so-called brokers and businessmen for well-deserved financial support, or, for the moment, the possibility of submitting this proposal and fighting for the help of businessmen who are also working on part-time employment and who have not yet, perhaps as a single group, received compensation from the State, even though they often had to close their establishments for a long time, in a different way and in another way. For example, a separate amendment to the Compensation Bonus Act. Today I choose the second option because I don't want to marry the thousands of brokers who are desperately waiting for help as hostages. But I won't forget the tradesmen working on part-time employment and their legitimate interests, and you can trust me on that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. And with priority rights, Mrs Kovářová, who today represents the club. You have your word. Your five minutes, madam, as you said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u10	Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary, we welcome this proposal for STAN in any event. It just needs to be repeated that such a proposal was here a few months ago, you might say. And I am sorry that the government has actually exposed a number of people to either go to the employment office or find themselves in financial trouble.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u11	I'll stop you for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I really do ask for peace of mind. Allow your colleague to perform. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u12	Thank you. So let me just say that we welcome this proposal, it's late anyway, but thank God it's on our table. What we also welcome is that we have avoided the debate that such a proposal will have effects on the incomes of municipalities and regions. The Minister responds to this in the proposal by increasing the compensatory amount for municipalities from 1,200 to 1,250, which is, of course, fine. Unfortunately, it's forgotten again on the edge, and it's still argued with the 4 billion on the road. But there are more of these revenue cuts about the regions, and there is still only this, and I hope that the Liberec Region's proposal to compensate the regions will soon come to the House. I hope that the government will respond positively to it and that we can compensate for this for the regions, too, these blackouts. So we will support the proposal for the STAN club with the fact that, as my colleague spoke before me, it is still forgotten about those who have the main employment as a major activity, but low income, and more income in secondary activity as a self-employed person. Unfortunately, they didn't get into this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. Next is Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Luzar will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very glad that, after we tried to raise this issue since March, we tried to draw attention to the tens of thousands of people who paid insurance, paid taxes, worked properly, and forgot them, so we managed to convince the Ministry of Finance to submit this proposal, and after several personal interventions, we managed to get this thing on the House plenary with the support of the government coalition. We have tabled this many times together with colleagues from all over the opposition as amendments. We have tried many times to get these people to reach support, and now it seems that this will perhaps be approved. That's a huge step forward. Too late, but still. One thing is, the help is late, but there are still a lot of good reasons to approve it at least now. The main thing is, there are tradesmen who have had a run-in with the agreements and who have often successfully applied for a compensatory bonus because they didn't think that the employment agreement for CZK 3,500 a month was something that excluded them from the aid. People are not completely oriented in the Czech legal goulash and do not know that the agreement of this type is treated as a job with participation in sickness insurance. For this reason, thousands of entrepreneurs have applied for a compensatory bonus because there are no financial management databases linked to the databases of the Czech Social Security Administration, so they have received the compensation bonus, and now the Financial Administration, and there is nothing else to do, because according to the law, they have to recover the money from them, so the people who received the support of these 45 grand now have to return it, but they don't have the money anymore because they lost it because of the crisis. The important thing to approve of this is that these people are not going to lose the money now. Further, another great injustice is being corrected. At the same time, foster parents did not lose their entitlement to the compensation bonus, however, the partners s. r. o., who are also foster parents, lost the compensation bonus. The Senate tried to fix it, and unfortunately there were other proposals that were more controversial, even though we supported them as pirát, but the government coalition didn't support them, and this proposal fell under the table, which we also managed to fix. So once again, one large group, so from the point of view of the state, it's not big money, but it's a vital thing for those people, it's people who raise children, take care of them, and they've been punished by losing their claim to a compensation bonus. That's the second thing that's been fixed. Then, of course, there's that big group of negotiators who've been paying off insurance premiums that are now getting support. Which groups are they? They are disabled pensioners who have such a low disability pension that they have to earn more money to make deals. They're mothers for parenting, often single parents who need to support their children and work on deals. They're people who worked in restaurants as bartenders often on a job agreement and lost their income with the crisis. It's a large group of people who worked honestly, paid relatively high taxes, paid the same taxes on the employment agreement as for employees, which means that income is much higher than for businessmen, and they didn't get anything from the state. So this great injustice is being corrected. I completely agree with my colleague Šafránková on the great injustice to employees or tradesmen who have a small job, perhaps helping in their community of unit owners for a thousand units, and that is why they are losing their support. We have repeatedly proposed this as amendments. I have appealed to the Ministry of Finance to include some sort of co-operation with the employees, unfortunately, the proposal that is tabled is the maximum that we have been able to negotiate so that it has the support of the government coalition, and we lack the eight votes that have led to the failure of the amendments, and let's say something, it is still tens of thousands of people who will receive the support. That is why I am asking you all to approve this proposal under Section 90. Thanks for the support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. Mr Luzar has the floor, Mr Jurečka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u16	Mr President, Madam Secretary, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to step aside from the general euphoricism that governs this bill. Even by being accepted in the '90s to deal with problems as quickly as possible, quickly as possible. But if there is something in the Czech Republic modern work slavery, it is precisely an agreement on work activities. Because in the original intention of these agreements on the execution of work and work activities was mainly to help students, for example, those who want to make extra money, who have their source of income and who want to carry out other activities to this source of income. We can all imagine the workers here helping each other like this. But what is completely forgotten is that over time it has become the basic income of many people. In dozens of different, municipal, other services, these tenant slaves are hired in these activities, and then we can be surprised, and the government is trying to figure it out that they have minimum pensions, that they have minimal social security, that they really have nothing to live on in old age. But what's the point? What does that come from? It is here that this abuse of these employment agreements is coming to light. I would be really interested in the general euphoria and noise that reigns here in this House, how you're all looking forward to the holidays, if anyone was wondering how these people really live and work today. How they're abused. Do you think any of them are following the 20 hours a week that they can't work any more? Do you really believe that someone is controlling that those who have the deal are really only working those 20 hours? They often work considerably more, even over-time 40 hours. But it doesn't show up anywhere. Do you think anyone saw the control that these people can control when they're mowing pot somewhere? No one's coming. They are modern - day slaves who are truly grateful for having something as a financial reward for what they do. [[9.30 hours]] But our goal should be to make sure it's not about the money, but about the people, and we're kind of forgetting about them here in a big euphoria, how good these deals are, and how we have to help them make these deals. These people, for whom it is the only income, are deliberately hiding themselves, and the only contract they have received is a work agreement. And I'm not even talking about agency employment, which is another huge problem that we're not dealing with here. But look what employment relationships agency employees are in. You think it's a classic employment relationship, except with the agency? Not often either. In the vast majority, it's also a deal. And these are the problems that we're covering up here and we're saying, it's actually everything's okay. It's not. This is a problem that KSČM has long fought for, and we will not let that happen. Frankly, we say that this is one of the main things that we are going to promote to make order in these employment relationships, so that modern slavery ends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. I have some factual points here - Mr Ferjenčík, then Mrs Pekarová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u18	Thank you. I'm gonna try briefly, because we need to make it by 10:30, so I'm not gonna be able to... It is necessary to respond to the words of my colleague Luzar. One thing is to look at the contracts themselves, and the other thing is to look at the support of these people. And we're not gonna punish the poorest workers for having the bad luck of having the worst employment contracts. That's totally fucked up! That's why we're raising the subject, because these people, you say, are modern slaves, and that's why the state didn't give them anything. I mean, that's totally crazy. Those people who are the first to be fired when the crisis comes, those people who are the worst at it have the worst protection in terms of labour law, so we're gonna punish them by not giving them any state support because we don't like the system of these contracts. That's totally crazy. I completely agree that the DPP, which combines with other pseudo-employers under CZK 10,000, is no record of this, of course, is a mess, and I am absolutely in favour of improving the registration of those labor agreements and of allowing only one contract on this income, even with a higher limit, but the remaining ones should normally be subject to taxation, and it works better. I agree with the reservations about the working conditions of these people. But that is no reason for them not to receive any State aid. That is why we have given the amendment, which is why we are now supporting this proposal, because it is these people who deserve the support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. Another factual point, Mrs Pekarová, then Mrs Richterová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor. I want to rely on the use of connections to these parts, that they are modern slaves. Please, nicely, if you, Mr President, felt that this must be dealt with on this very basis, so I expect that, in the time you have already been here in Parliament, you have tried so many times that we would not be talking about these types of jobs here today and that there would have been a change in the labour code. Sadly, you didn't succeed, or you just didn't find the courage in this, but you've got here an effort to frequent these people with such outrageous comparisons. If I have the floor, I would just like to remind myself that we have already voted on this amendment on 7 April, or on a proposal that was then an amendment to virtually all opposition parties, and you have all had the opportunity to make money from those people who actually depend on their income quite clearly, it is not only a profit for them, but also for those who need disabled pensioners and just need to earn money, and you have not done so. So now in July, a few months later, we're finally getting there. It is of course a good thing, but it is a great shame to this House that it took so long.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. Real comment by Mrs Richterová, then by Mr Bláha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u22	Hello, thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u23	I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. Thank you. If you have anything to do, please go to the foyer. Make it possible for a colleague to perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u24	Just because the insurance brokers are such a big group that normally worked, we actually agreed on this whole opposition that it's a shame... [[The President is ringing: I really ask for peace! Thank you.]] ...and unfairly forget them. That's one thing. The second thing - why punish these people for their inappropriate employment? Unfortunately, that's not often the choice, but they're driven into it. Third thing. It seems to me that unfortunately it is not here that the European Commission has actually already issued a directive that will lead to a change in our system of agreements. It was adopted by Europe in 2019, and we had our expert internal meeting ten days ago. And in what way would we imagine a change in agreements? I would imagine that each party is having an expert discussion on how they want to change the system so that it is in line with the directive that we will have to implement, and it has the exact same term of implementation as work life balance, or as a parental contribution. So the change will still come, but why punish those people for the inappropriate employment today? And I'm just gonna close it. Please, I've heard from 500 people in two days who had a deal, if there's anything for them. This is a huge problem for everyone, whether they were parents, such as singles, that is a really big group, or people who have been poaching a small part and a deal in different ways, and then they clean up the bargains. There's a lot of people, let's not forget them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. Mr Bláha, Mr Luzar will be ready. It's all factual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is far more complicated than it sounds here. Here I hear modern slavers, abuse, etc. All of this, these contexts are much deeper and far wider than what you're talking about. First of all, we have a million people in executions and insolvencys, and they directly require a job black or a job on the DPP or some form of not having to pay their wages to the person they owe. That's one thing. That means we really have a million people here who require a black job today and every day. Then, of course, here we have disciplines that are unable to achieve profitability without employing this way. [[no]] These are all fields dealing with hospitality, offering services, etc. Unfortunately, it is, and we still don't want to admit it. If we don't change the price of work, if we don't change the fact that the person who falls into the execution will be able to make a living on the normal way, then all of this will be created. It's normal. And really, don't believe that someone only works 20 hours when they're showing this activity. He works a lot harder. And we could go on like this, why it all came about. Let's take the trouble, yes, let's deal with it now. Let's take these problems one at a time, let's complain about them, let's deal with them. We have a chance to change the execution, and no one wants it. We're still making cosmetic modifications. Let's change pension reform and all our affairs, and then we have a chance to move forward that the things that are happening won't happen. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. Mr Luzar, in fact, points out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very short. By your means, Mr President, I want to thank colleague Richterová for the explanation, because, yes, she is right. Kateřina Konečná, MEP of the KSČM, is working very hard for this and is fighting to get into our legal system. That is why we are preparing these proposals. That's the answer to what was said here. I don't blame this proposal for what it is. I see the idealism that's above it, the goodwill. But in practice, it will be, and believe it will be, that most of the money will not end up with the brokers, but will end up with those who hire them. What will be the practical payment of these benefits? Who's gonna be a part of this? How's this confirmation gonna work? Believe that the practice will be very far from the idealistic idea that these negotiators will receive the whole amount. There are already examples today, and I know about them that they are preparing mass applications for these negotiators, their own employers are preparing it. And you really think they're gonna pay 100 percent? Don't be naive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u29	Ambassador, don't go anywhere. It's your turn. [[Voices from the auditorium, no longer to be heard by the Member.]] So you've already spoken in the debate, okay. Mr. Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u30	Good morning, Mr President, dear Minister, colleagues. Madam Secretary has been asking me to be brief, I'm always trying to be brief, I don't have long shows to beat up empty straw here. But let me just make a few comments. I have now looked into the system and on the issue of helping people who are on agreements, in the context of the coronavirus crisis on 23 March I recorded the first two amendments under Houses documents 4361 and 4632. It was a House press of 784 and I recorded solutions to help people who are in agreement, just as it is today. I put two variants: 263 crowns a day and 486 crowns a day. Unfortunately, not only did Secretary Schillerová explain it to me at the time, but also from Minister Maláčová that it is not possible that this simply cannot be resolved. Then later, in time, as it grew and arguments from people were given a huge amount, including a description of their difficult situations, it was admitted that maybe someday the government would sort it out. So I'm glad that after almost four months of the original proposal here today we have a solution to at least this part of the people who are still waiting for help and in difficult situations. If it's too late, thank you for this. But I would like to remind you that there are still certain groups of people who have not received help and need it, they really need it, and dealing with extraordinary social benefits is not a way for them. These are people who are like self-employed people, who write to me and people who, for example, have a small family stock company and so on, there are still blind spots on the map where help is needed. So I would very much ask that the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the MIT and the MPSV, take a look and try to sort these things out. Let me just mention one more thing. Now, in this little technical firefight, it's been mentioned here, Mr. Bláha for the ANO movement, he's been talking about the fact that there's still talk here and there's no execution, insolvency and all that. I would like to tell him here, through Mr President, to look at the amendments which have already been discussed by the subcommittee on execution and insolvency, to the amendments made by my colleague Marek Výborný, I am calling them a professionally gracious summer, where we are really dealing with the long-term problems of people's debt traps with a simple principle: the debtor who owes to the state will be able to pay back the principal, what he owed, and a maximum of CZK 500, and no more accessories. If the debtor owes it to any other legal, natural person outside the organisational units of the State, he will pay the basic debt and maximum fees at the level of the basic debt. I call it business 1 plus 1. So, for example, if he owed $20,000, today someone charged him a debt up to, say, 200-300 thousand, no, he would pay $20,000 of basic debt, the principal, and a maximum of another CZK 20,000, and so we would settle this once and for all, so that we could return these people to the system. KDU-ČSL worked the proposal, Marek Výborný worked it out, he is here, waiting for discussion in the House and I would very much like that, although Mr Bláha here has this problem and wants to address it so that he can support it as much as possible in his club so that we can discuss it in September. Thank you so much for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. I'll read a few apologies. Mr Petr Venhoda apologizes for today's work for reasons of work, Minister Jan Hamáček apologises for today's meeting for reasons of work, Vice-President Tomáš Hanzel apologizes for reasons of work, Mrs Hyťhová apologizes for reasons of health from 9.00 to 9.45 for reasons of health, Mrs Věra Adámková apologises for reasons of work, Mr Lukáš Kolářík apologizes from the Andrea Babišová of the meeting for personal reasons, Mr Vít KaňkovskKaňkovský apologises for family reasons, Mr Ivo Pojezný apologizes between 11.00 and 14.00 for family reasons. [[There is a strong noise and very poor audibility in the hall!]] I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate on this point? I see no one, I end the general debate. And since there was no objection, we will decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I'll call my coworkers from the lobby. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on Houses of the Press 921 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' We will wait a little longer, I see a larger number of Members are coming. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 3 registered 152, for 131, against no one. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I am therefore opening a detailed debate on this point. I ask who is interested in speaking in a detailed debate. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's an interest in final words. Madam Secretary? Mr. Rapporteur? Apparently it isn't. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 159/20020 Coll., on compensation bonus in relation to crisis measures related to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, as amended, pursuant to House Print 921.' Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 4 registered 154 Members, for 143, against no one. The motion was accepted. I'm stating that the bill has been approved, and I'm done talking. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for the Pirates.]] I'm opening another point, and that's it.
