ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 62nd session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. To record your involvement, I've just checked you all out. I'll ask you to log in with ID cards or tell me who votes with the spare card. [[A Member of Okamura reports a sound problem.]] Technical? Now I hear you? So I noted the objection that... well, that's what I'm screaming. Is that better? [[No.]] All I'm saying is that, after discussing paragraph 508 under the agreement of the presidents of the MPs... [[Ambassador Okamura, do you copy? Isn't it?]] So I'm interrupting for five minutes, and we're gonna try to figure out a technical problem. [[The hearing has been suspended since 14. 01 hours until 14.05 hours.]] Such technical problems have been removed, I hope you can hear me well now. I am merely saying that, following the discussion of paragraph 508 under the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs, those Members who are not present will be deemed to be excused. We'll be sitting in a reduced number again. Jaroslav Dvořák - working reasons, Alena Gajdůškovášková - working reasons, Petr Gazdík - personal reasons, Miroslav Grebeníček - health reasons, Pavel Kováčik - health reasons, Lenka Kozlová - health reasons, Jana Levová - health reasons, Karel Rais - health reasons, Miloslav Rozner - health reasons, Lucie Šafránková - working reasons, Karla Šlechtová - health reasons, Václav Votava - health reasons. Members of the government apologize: Klára Dostálová - health reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Miroslav Toman - working reasons. Today was born on a birthday. Today's birthday is celebrated by Mr Jan Bartošek, Mr Marek Benda and Mrs Miloslava Rutová. Congratulations to all and happy birthday. [[Let's hear it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has requested that the following House prints, which it has approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, be discussed in a short hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. It is an amendment to the Act on bankruptcy and its solutions - insolvency law, press 1073; amendment to the Act on public health insurance, House printing 1080; amendment to the Higher Education Act, House printing 1081. According to Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. 2 I have decided to discuss these proposals in a short hearing and I have ordered the House Press 1073 to the constitutionally-legal committee with an inexcessible deadline for the submission of the resolution today within 12 hours; The House's press of 1080 to the Health Committee has set a deadline for the submission of a resolution by Wednesday, 11 November, at 8.30 a.m.; and the House Press 1081 to the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, and set an unbreakable deadline for the submission of a resolution by Wednesday, 11 November, at 8.30 p.m. Well, that was information. I would now like to inform you about the proposals agreed by today's grémium. We propose, on a proposal from the President of the Chamber of Deputies, to include new points on the 62nd meeting: the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2021, the House Press 1067; the Bill on the Compensation Bonus, the House Press 1055/2 returned to the Senate; draft bankruptcy law and its solutions - insolvency law, House press 1060/2, returned to the Senate. In addition, we propose to include draft laws in short-term negotiations: a government bill on bankruptcy and its solutions - insolvency law, press 1073; a government bill on public health insurance, House printing 1080; a government bill on universities, House printing 1081. [[14.10 hours]] We also propose the following procedure to discuss points this week. Today, on Tuesday 10 November, discuss the points in this order: the laws returned by the Senate, the Parliament's press 1055/2, the compensatory bonus; the House's press 1060/2, the insolvency law. We would also discuss voting points 401, 402 and 508. We would then continue to discuss points from the second reading block in the following order: paragraph 13, printing 696, on medical devices; paragraph 14, printing 697, on medical devices; Point 15, print 552, on emergency oil reserves; paragraph 17, printing 531, upper law; and paragraph 35, Press 237, Administrative Code of Procedure. We would then continue according to the approved agenda of the meeting. On Wednesday 11 we will focus on the approved time schedule of the House of Press 1067, the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2021, first reading. On Thursday, November 12, we propose to discuss points 42, print 794, Fire Rescue Corps, second reading, and the points that I have mentioned twice today, those in the shortened negotiations, namely the press 1076, insolvency law; print 1080, amendment on public health insurance; print 1081, amendment to the Higher Education Act. On Friday, November 13, we would discuss points from the third reading block for which legal deadlines have been fulfilled. That's all on my side. An overview of the remaining points has been sent to you by e-mail. And I'm asking who's interested in the show... I'll just read a few more apologies. Jiří Mihola apologizes today within 17 hours for work reasons, Minister Tomáš Petříček apologizes for work reasons, Roman Sklenák apologizes for health reasons for the whole week, Minister Lubomír Metnar apologizes for the whole day due to urgent work obligations. Mr Chvojka, Vice-President Filip, President Radim Fiala and President Stanjura came forward while I was reading. So in that order, please. First, Prime Minister Chvojka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, colleagues. I would like to ask for one point, and that point would be called a motion to shorten the legal deadline in the committees of the House press 1025. It's an amendment to the Employment Act, alias cursarbeit. My proposal is that, if this point is approved, I would propose to include this point firmly tomorrow. The point should be discussed ideally this week, ideally tomorrow or Thursday at second reading. If we want him to pay or respectively. has been effective since 1. 1. 2021, so this Friday's second reading is the deadline. This means the purpose of the inclusion of this point is to make the cursarbeit in time from 1. 1. next year, ideally in the form as proposed in the government law, of course, after some changes that would have been made in second and third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u3	Thank you. Another report was made by Vice-President Filip with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u4	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will be brief. I propose that we include points 199, 198 and 197, i.e. prints 508, 526 and 549 for tomorrow after the fixed points, especially the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2021, as they were submitted for discussion. These are the first readings of the Constitutional Law on the Protection of Water and Water Resources from all three workshops that have been here, with the need, given that there is already an agreement at the Ministry of Agriculture, so that we can discuss the first reading and advance on this very important step, which is an interest widely in the Chamber of Deputies. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I mean, tomorrow after the state budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u5	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. And I would ask all my colleagues and colleagues to remain calm in the hall. I had trouble hearing Mr. Vice-President and his proposal. Please pay attention to what is proposed, what will be voted on. Another priority right, President Radim Fiala, then President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u6	Hello, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to propose and include press 966, which is an amendment to the Low-Term Energy Act, which is a law of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and I would like to place it firmly on Wednesday 11. 11. right after the state budget is discussed. It is actually an amendment to the Dukovany Act, as I have said several times. The point is that if we have this law approved, we can start, or ask the European Commission for notification, so-called. the authorisation of new nuclear resources in Dukovany. Without that, it won't be possible. And I would like to make any delay in the timetable if it happens so that it is not at the expense of the Chamber of Deputies and the Czech Parliament. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u7	Thank you. It's the second suggestion that this be the first point after the fixed points. The Vice-President may then suggest, alternatively, that he include your points... If you fix it, it'll be voteable. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u8	Thank you. Mr President, as I announced at the meeting of the political grémia, I agree that this should be the first point after the state budget, and points 199, 198, 197 were the third, fourth and fifth points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u9	Okay, thank you for the clarification. And I will ask Prime Minister Stanjura to prepare herself with the priority right of Minister Maláčová. Once again I ask you all really to calm down in the hall!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u10	May I now, Mr. Chairman? [[- Yes, please.]] As I have announced on today's grémium, I would like to propose a prioritization of paragraph 52, House press 918, it is an amendment to the Income Tax Act, it is a donor for the non-profit sector, and I propose that we include it in the second reading block for those points that the President has read under the Political Grémium Agreement. In other words, if memory doesn't deceive me, for point 35, the House press 237, which is the last point of the grémia proposed in the block of others, then for point 35, I propose to include point 52, House press 918. And let me turn to President Chvojka at this point, too, if he would not like to vote tomorrow, because I have learned that there has been a compromise proposal, which I fully respect, but I have called for this compromise proposal to be made within the entire Chamber of Deputies. As far as I know, it was only recently inserted into the system, and we didn't have enough time to study it. So it's no big deal if we make that suggestion of yours - I don't know when you suggested that we cut the deadline for today or tomorrow. If it's for tomorrow, I suggest, or rather, I have a request to vote on it tomorrow morning so that we have a chance to study the amendment that is in the system by tomorrow and decide accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u11	Thank you. Minister Maláčová with priority rights, then President Bartošek... Madam Secretary Maláčová with priority rights?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you once again to speed up this week or to shorten the time limit for discussion. Cursarbeit. If the cursarbeit should be at 1. First run, so we have to do a second reading this week. This means employment, please, it is Czech companies. I appeal to you to shorten the deadline so that, if necessary, cursarbeit can go to 1. 1. run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u13	I'd like to ask you for a third time in the hall! If there's anything urgent you need to discuss, go deal with it in the lobby. President Bartošek with priority rights, President Chvojka will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask us to place paragraph 503, it is the Information of the Minister of the Environment on the situation on the Bečva river, and to go as on Friday the first point before the third readings because there are a number of questions to which the Minister can answer regardless of how the investigation is conducted. A number of questions have been asked, for example, in the Referendum, to which the Minister has not answered, and I believe that it is important and right for people to have an answer as to how this crime is being investigated on the Bečva River. So I beg you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u15	Thank you. Another priority right - President Chvojka, then President Michálek. President Chvojka cancels, in which case President Michálek, then President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apply the veto against the proposal made here, on behalf of the Pirates, STAN and TOP 09, against the proposal for press inclusion 966, the draft law on the transition to low-carbon energy, on the ground that we would like this matter to be discussed first on the Security Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u17	So, Mr. Faltýnek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u18	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, Mr President. I am doing this after the debate with Minister Brabc, and I would like to raise a counterproposal to point 503, or press 503, to discuss Bečva on Friday after third readings, not before third readings, but after third readings, so that there is sufficient time for this debate, and Minister Brabec is ready to answer your questions. So please take this as a counterproposal on the proposal of Mr Bartošek's colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u19	I don't have anyone else here with priority rights, so President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor. I respect Mr Faltýnek's proposal, but don't be angry with me, I see it only as an attempt to delay, make it unpleasant, not to discuss, delay. If it's at the end of the third reading block, we won't be able to discuss it. For this reason, I put forward a counterclaim to include this as the second point of Friday's negotiations after the first reading - after the third reading of the first law, so that this is the second point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u21	Second point on Friday. More people were talking to me here. The replacement card number 18 shall be voted by Mr Kalousek. Spare card number 17 is my vote, Radek Vondráček. I'm asking if anyone else wants to perform with priority rights. Mr. Chairman of the Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u22	I apologize for the second speech on this issue, but on Friday in the third reading block we have to discuss records of real owners, verification of foreign investments, replacement maintenance, protected account. And the House, if we agree, colleagues, may act on Friday and after 14 o'clock. And if there's an interest in discussing Bečva, Minister Brabec is here, I spoke to him five times this week on the subject, we were looking for a deadline, and we found a deadline Friday after third readings, no later than 14:00. So let's make a deal. It's not an obstruction. I'm happy to listen to this debate with Minister Brabc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u23	Thank you. Let me take a breather to the point that the questions should primarily be asked on the interpellations. I hope the Minister will be present on Thursday. And we could still use that time from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure. Chairman Stanjura, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u24	So, of course, proposing Friday 14 hours is obstruction. Cold-blooded, pure-blooded, nothing else. I just want to - [[A note from the diaper.]] Why not? But let's call things real names. Minister Brabec fought back for a long time, avoided us for a long time, and now he has graciously found a term when the Chamber of Deputies does not normally sit down. I just want to remind you that we had plenary last week, we will have plenary next week, the government majority is planning a meeting, a plenary, a parliamentary week. Then they suggest something at 14 - maybe President Faltýnek will like to sit here, I don't really believe it, but why not, I'll be optimistic. But it's not a dignified time for such a serious problem to discuss. Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, if you know and you certainly know the system of intercession, there is actually no debate. We - your Prime Minister, your ministers are masters in the discipline "Ask Me What You Want, I'll Answer You What I Want." So there's no real debate about such a serious environmental disaster. It is possible that Minister Brabec would read the five-minute exhibits written by officials, but other Members cannot participate in such a debate. Well, you better say what you had on the committee, that it's private, secret, you don't want to thwart the investigation, and all the excuses I've heard. It's much better than suggesting we sit here on Friday at 2:00. By the way, today, the government has again proposed three laws in a legislative emergency, so I don't feel like the House is meeting enough, it's exactly the opposite. And we also have some bills to discuss, we also have to have time to read it, by the way, about the cursarbeit. You always argue for weeks and months in a government coalition, I respect that, then you throw it in here and you want us to vote on it the next day. And we also need time to think about it and, if necessary, to take a different view, to improve this proposal in some way. So we're definitely not going to support Friday 14 hours, because we're not going to vote for obstruction. And apparently, the Minister is afraid of that. Minister, if you were looking for a deadline, you should have been looking for a deadline when the Chamber of Deputies normally meets. You've been an MP for seven years and a bit, so try me like this - or let your officials find out how many times we've been sitting and discussing Friday after 2:00 p.m. in those seven years and normal times when there was no legislative emergency and legislation in a legislative emergency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u25	Thank you. So, with priority rights, Minister Brabec, then Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, then President Bartošek, all priority rights, and surely it is for the agenda of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, by your means, Mr President, to President Stanjur. Mr President, I am only afraid of the illness of my children, my children and my loved ones. I'm not afraid of anything else, and at least I'm afraid of stupid provocative remarks that I'm used to. I just got into white heat like this, I didn't expect it this early, but so be it. I'm not defending myself and I'm not defending myself. I politely apologized for health reasons the day before the meeting when this was to be discussed. Not the same day, but the day before the meeting, really for health reasons, which I announced. It didn't even get to that point because the covid was being discussed, which I understand. So please don't insult me in this way! I'm not really scared. And I'm not afraid of that point at all. I joined the Environment Committee, which turned into an investigation committee. I didn't even want to do it originally, but since we all know that this is a political issue - because if it wasn't a political issue, it would, of course, be dealt with by the Police of the Czech Republic. So this, I think, is clear to everyone. So I don't know why you're getting into this. I am not afraid of that point, I will answer it again, I said to the committee, I will say in plenary what I can say, what is simply not bound - you certainly know well the criminal code, the relevant paragraphs, when investigating what can be said and cannot be said. But it's turned into a really incredible cabaret, and I'm just saying - yes, I'm happy to comment on it both at interpellations, anywhere else, but I'm really only going to comment on those points that can be said because there's a parallel investigation by the Police of the Czech Republic supervised by the prosecutor. So please don't really insult me in this way that I'm afraid of something and I'm resisting something. I'm not. [[14.30 hours]] Thank you. And I think Mr. Faltýnek and I have agreed on a date. I think we all want to get to the third reading points, too. There are dozens of points waiting here, so I'm sure we can figure out a way to learn information that can actually be said in this state of conduct in a live file. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u27	Thank you. Just for the steven record - I have recorded an application from my colleague Ferjenčík's post. He did it at exactly the right time. With priority rights, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u28	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, I, of course, do not accept the House, or I do not deny the House the right to debate anything, but I ask myself what the subject of this debate will be. This is where the dangerous substance leaked into the river at the time. The matter was handed over to the Police of the Czech Republic. The police are saving it, and they're supervising the state's attorney. By the way, I'm guessing the supervising prosecutor gave a press release two days ago saying that the investigation was ongoing and that he would certainly not commit any iniquities. As far as the Police of the Czech Republic are concerned, the police have taken about a few hundred samples to determine where the cyanide came from. Those samples were transmitted to a judicial or expert expert and the expert has a deadline for evaluation. The moment he evaluates it, and the deadline, according to my information, is December 20th, it's probably clear which channel the cyanide leaked from. At the same time, it is also not a secret that the police performed certain acts in one particular firm, which was also published in the media which company it is, it can be traced, and that is about all that can be said. Everything else is more or less an academic debate. That means I'm not resisting this academic debate, but I want to assure everyone that the police are acting impartially. The police are proceeding exactly according to the D.A.'s instructions. And the police have collected, as I said, several hundred evidence, which is currently available to the forensic expert. So what I'm saying is that no one has underestimated it, that it is not politically influenced, after all, there is no reason, because none of those who are there, according to my information, have any political ties. It's only waiting for the result of forensic expertise. I wonder how the debate in the Chamber of Deputies will contribute to the speeding up of the judicial expert's procedure. Well, I don't think that's gonna work, 'cause judging these samples, I think it's complicated. To be quite frank, I feel that there have been some medical complications with the expert, but I don't think there's any point in completely divorcing. Anyway, the deadline that was set is December 20th. We can have fun if it's a long time, or if it's not a long time, anyway, the police are saving it, no one's underestimating it, nobody's sweeping it under the carpet, the police aren't working on any order, it's all under the authority of the state's attorney. From my point of view, we can have this debate, and the forensic experts are probably not speeding up. We'll all know which channel it came from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u29	Thank you. There were a few additional apologies. I'll use the space to read them. Mr Lubomír Volný 10 apologies. 11. from 14 a.m. to the end of the day for family reasons, Mr Ivan Adamec apologizes for today's work, Mr František Vácha apologizes for today's day for personal reasons. President Bartošek, then President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u30	Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior, Hamáček, for his justification, because I expected something similar from you, Minister Brabč. To say that the death of several, killing several tons of fish in the river is - what did you call it? [[Minister Brabce's reaction off the microphone.]] Well, because I thought it was shameful to talk about it being some kind of clown or something. So at this point, I really see the actions of the YES movement as an attempt to avert the possibility of talking about this topic and giving this point on Friday afternoon is really an attempt to avoid this topic. This means O.K., you can proceed in this way, but we will not be discouraged and we will repeatedly want this item to be discussed at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u31	President Stanjura is next with priority rights, then President Pekarová Adamová
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u32	Thank you for the floor. So Minister Brabec said the case is alive, I understand. But the fish and the river are dead. And it's not a cabaret. It's a big environmental disaster. You can say it's a cabaret a hundred times, it's just a downside to the situation, and I wouldn't expect that from any environmental minister. If you're offended by my statement that you're afraid, then by what term you've chosen, I can't think of anything else. So I suggest Thursday it's like the second point after 11:00, after the fire department bill. Show your courage that you are ready to debate this at any time, convince your colleagues at the club and we can discuss it on Thursday. If you said you couldn't, I'd understand, but you could have picked a Friday at 2:00, which you could have suggested on Saturday at 11:00. It has as much value as it is balanced, and whoever wants to be here on Saturday, no, if you're so interested in it, come on Saturday, Mr. Brabec will be here, Mr. Faltýnek will be here, and maybe some others will come. It's just not a serious term for such a serious debate. None of us, Mr. Home Secretary, want to influence the police. I don't know why you're defending the police. There's nothing going on here about the police. If Minister Brabec didn't have that strong statement: the culprit will be known within a few hours, tops of days. The opposition didn't say that. That's what Minister Brabec said. What's the result? Totally different. The next day, the minister knew who it wasn't. He already knew who it wasn't! And the investigation continues. But he's known since day two what happened, who didn't. So what's the investigation when the minister is clear? He brought up the political debate himself. And our colleagues from the Zlín Region are turning to us, and they want us to discuss it here. There's nothing wrong with that. We don't want to influence the experts or the police. There's no reason. But your government colleague, Minister of the Interior, said that the outcome of the investigation would be known within a few hours, tops, days. Then beat him, not us. [[Minister from the government bench off the microphone.]] So he's not supposed to give such a strong statement when there's a suspicion of conflict of interest. And that just exists. I said suspicious, so let's not argue about whether it is or not. Of course, all these statements made by Minister Brabec only increase suspicion. So those were at least unfortunate statements, to speak so openly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u33	With priority rights, President Pekarová, Adamová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u34	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, first I will go to the speaker through the President. Mr. Stanjur, you're not on the Environment Committee. I am a member of this committee, so I want to tell you and the rest of you what was said in this committee from the Minister's mouth: he would slap for the tweet, as he said, which was involved, it really said there, where he stated that within hours, maximum days it would be examined. He wouldn't have slapped you for expelling Deza. I asked him that in person. The reaction wasn't like that anymore. I have also asked you, Minister, to make your own personal commitment to this point for this week's meeting. You guys are very clever about this: yes, I am personally in favour, but I'm not going to influence my 77 colleagues from the club to vote in any way. In a way, I paraphrase what was said. I think we should all be able to comment on this. The debate on the Environment Committee was very interesting. I think that even from the point of view of the great public interest in this matter, there is a need for this matter to be addressed here. And to the Home Secretary. Nobody's trying to influence the police here. Absolutely not. But it is also necessary to bear in mind that there is a number of doubts about the conduct of state authorities - Czech environmental inspection, state enterprise Povodí Moravy etc. It is, of course, not only a question of investigators, but it is also a question of those institutions, those state institutions that are directly subject to our executives. And we, as the Chamber of Deputies, are to be able to control executives and to encourage them to take a better approach to this matter. [[14.40 hours]] I think the fundamental message of the whole point should also be that we try to learn from this situation for the future. In order to have the opportunity to change legislation where there are gaps so that similar disasters can be avoided as best as possible in the future. I also see this as a contribution to putting this thing in our meeting and discussing it. I think it should be one of those crucial results.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u35	Thank you. President Jurečka with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u36	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues, colleagues. I would very much prefer that we really give this point a dignified classification. If the option does not pass on Friday, that would be the second point, as my colleague Bartošek suggested, I think we can even initiate an extraordinary meeting on that point if that's what the coalition wants. Because when you look at the scale of such incidents, it is the same as if we were discussing Vrbětice, which took place here in the last parliamentary term, on Friday after 2:00 p.m. It is indeed the greatest environmental disaster in modern history in the last 30 years. There have been situations where the Minister of Industry and Trade is going to deal with heat loss, individual government members are going to deal with the fact that they are going to go to Vysočina, the Minister of the Environment took about nine days to look at the biggest environmental accident in the last thirty years. I wouldn't have opened it otherwise if we hadn't witnessed before that, when the pearls were being dropped, when they were getting out of the crawl, we saw beautiful touching pictures of the Minister with the Prime Minister. So let's put a little bit of weight on the scales, even you, members of the current coalition, the weight you're giving to other events, and the weight you're giving to this event. I understand that this is unpleasant, I understand it, I can imagine that this is not an easy situation for the Minister. I understand he can't say things from a living file, I understand. But just to say what the Home Secretary said in part here - there are such and such collected evidence, there are such and such a number, at least to some general extent, so that neither we, but the public knows - they don't sweep it under the carpet. The evidence is, the expert is processing it, on December 20th before Christmas we can expect the result. Thank you for the information the Home Secretary said. But please, if the Minister of the Environment had said: we are also planning measures to prevent this from happening again in the future. As crisis plans need to be worked out, how interstate environmental inspections are linked, a sewer network is then mapped in similarly exposed industrial areas to know that things will not stretch out and there will be a lesson. Now, if the Minister would listen to me, if I may ask... [[There's a messenger at the minister's. Falty and talking together, the speaker waits.]] Because I also have information from a lot of people who say that any significant sanctions and damages due to current legislation will not even be possible. [[Messenger. Faltynek is now speaking behind the back of the speaker with Minister Hačka.]] So if, for example, the Ministry has an analysis to say: we will do an amendment by the end of the term, which will lead to the possibility of adequate sanctions in such cases. Those are the things where the information should be heard in context. When the Home Secretary asked, "What are we going to discuss here?"so, for example, about these things. Because today, if a digger kicks over an optical cable, the law clearly remembers what the sanctions are and what the damage is, but in the case of environmental accidents, we have 20 years of legislation missing to define it. Those are the things this House is supposed to talk about in situations like this. So please, let's not downplay this, let's give it a really big impact - I'm from the cadastral territory, where I'm flowing about a mile behind the Bečva house, I'm experiencing the impacts as a citizen - let's say we're dealing with some kind of adequate dignity, and not Friday, 14 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u37	Well, that's all of the priority rights at the moment, and I'll look around, and we'll continue with the applications that I received by 14.30. First up, Mrs Monika Jarošová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u38	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I propose to include on the agenda an extraordinary item called the condemnation of the aggression of Azerbaijan and Turkey against the civilian population in Nahorni Karabakh, today after the Senate vomit. As Vice-President of the Petition Committee, I accepted this petition on 15 October. In view of the urgency of the situation, petent limited the collection of signatures to a week, and still collected over 2,000 signatures, while an online petition was held by the Armenian Youth Association in the Czech Republic, where over 3,000 signatures were collected. petent are asking for the following steps: to issue an official statement condemning this military aggression. Issue an official declaration condemning the use of prohibited military ammunition. Issue of an official declaration condemning the support of terrorism by Azerbaijan and Turkey. An immediate appeal by the Ambassador of the Czech Republic from Turkey and Azerbaijan. The immediate expulsion of the ambassador of Turkey and Azerbaijan from the Czech Republic and the immediate release of the initiative to exclude Turkey from NATO. Please note that all the chairmen of Parliament's parties received an invitation to accept the petition, and only Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura has arrived. She even promised to participate some media that eventually didn't show up. In total disinterest of the Czech media and the world public, another genocide of the Armén takes place before our eyes. Not only petenti, but also some of us here in the Chamber of Deputies want a clear government stance on the current situation, and we want the condemnation of Azerbaijan's aggression, which purposefully attacks Armenian civilian population, infrastructure, destroys Christian monuments, all for power interests. Of course, with the help of Turkey, which Azerbaijan supplies weapons, its soldiers, and in addition, it uses the services of terrorists that it imports from Syria or Libya after hundreds. This is a clear genocide of 150,000 Armén. Some communities have already been razed to the ground, needlessly dying young people. And the clock is ticking. Moreover, in its attacks, the Azerbaijani army has proven to be using banned cluster munitions, which are not designed to destroy military objects, but only to kill people. The Czech Republic must not close its eyes to this war crime and must clearly side with the oppressed and condemn this aggression. I must say that I am very concerned about the subject of the petition. There are civilians dying, young people dying who are supposed to go to school, not to fight, and that is unnecessary for someone's power interests. And I want the government to condemn this genocide harshly. I want a clear statement not only from the Prime Minister but also from the Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček. And if we do not approve of this point today, it may be believed that foreign policy no longer belongs to us, but is managed by someone else. After all, there is no reason to wait for the position taken by the institutions of the European Union to express our position. Perhaps some of you are far away from a small country, but I will remind you that it is a Christian nation that is under siege by Muslim Azerbaijan and Turkey. It's a really stupid position. So let's at least imagine that we can get into this situation ourselves someday. There's gonna be genocide, civilians dying, churches falling, we're gonna call for help, and it's gonna be quiet. That's a pretty terrible idea. I thank you for supporting the inclusion of this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u39	Thank you. It is now Mr Lukáš Bartoň's turn.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As I have announced on the school committee, I am asking for the transfer of the law on pedagogical workers who have been here for a long time, House Press 503, item number 18, block of second reading, to begin with, i.e. just for points that will be approved from Gremia. This is, I think, the final point for the administrative order, paragraph 35. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u41	Thank you. I didn't even get to press the time. You made it very quickly. The next one is Mr Marek Výborný on the agenda of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u42	Mr President, Prime Minister, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose the inclusion of an extraordinary point, which is called Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the situation in education in relation to the pandemic COVID-19. I'll explain what I'm dealing with. I propose this inclusion today after a block discussion of the laws returned or rejected by the Senate of the Czech Republic. And my point is to get information that the public is calling very hard on. Indeed, when we look at the situation that is happening today, people do not have clear information, people, the public, parents, there is enormous uncertainty in families. I just want to remind myself here: Minister Prymula, when he was a minister, announced that on November 2nd, the 1st grade of primary schools would return to school if the wheelbarrows were to fall! If I paraphrase him. The wheelbarrows didn't fall, the situation got dramatically worse, I get it, the students didn't go back to school. And since then, every week, we hear that next week, the government will present clear criteria, and that's about clarity, that's about clarity, that's about the decisions and the criteria that will be based on clear data. And everyone, directors, teachers, parents, students, students will know that when it comes to that and that and that group, that and that segment of the students of our schools, are going to go back to school. The situation really is unbearable. We are being approached by dozens of families, parents who are in a situation where they are not the teachers. And now, please, we're talking about first and second classes, for example. Really, ladies and gentlemen, does anyone here think you can teach a small child in first class to write through a computer monitor? It's just not possible! Indeed, someone thinks that the basic skills in the first, second class will teach the child the parent who is at home, often with more children, because he still has a child in the third grade, in the seventh grade, etc., actually the parents write that they are losing their strength and are able to endure it for perhaps a few days, but not longer. It's just, distance teaching at the lowest level, 1st, 2nd, 3rd grade, isn't long-term feasible, it just can't work. And it's not the Minister of Education's fault, I don't blame the Minister of Education, but we would like information primarily from the Minister of Health, because what is promised here and postponed every week, yes, when this and the situation occur, the smallest and also, of course, the graduates return to school. Big problem! We didn't get any information about when 9th grade elementary school would return to school. When pupils of graduates and seniors in secondary schools will return to school. Of course, the preparation for the turning points of their educational career, such as the graduation and final exam, such as the entrance exams at high school, is a huge problem and those pupils are at this moment in a situation when they were outside the standard education process for several months in the spring. And now, for over a month now, they've been at distance teachings that can never replace attendance classes. We need to make sure these families are safe. We are deeply convinced that, in a situation where there is no dramatic deterioration in development, there is no reason why the smallest, 1st, 2nd grade and graduates should not return to school at the latest on 23 November. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček has already announced today that he wants to ask or the government will require an extension of the emergency. Come on, dear government, if you want to prolong the emergency situation, I think you have to take this important step too, that it is not possible to continue teaching on the shoulders of parents and teachers who are doing everything they can, but of course for them it is much more challenging than presentation instruction. I'm here taking a bow in front of teachers who are taking distance lessons today. I went to several schools and, of course, for those teachers, it's dramatically more demanding than standard teaching behind the department at school. There is a need to do something about this situation, and in order to be sure, it is necessary to state clearly what criteria will be followed. And, of course, backwards. In a situation where the situation may deteriorate again in the spring, no one can predict whether a third, fourth wave will come, the way we will go again and when there will eventually be a return of distance teaching. And if we look at the situation from abroad, please, don't tell me that the Ir, the Francouz, the Belgičan are such gamblers with the citizens of their countries that they allowed themselves to keep schools or at least the critical segment, the critical part of schools such as the very lowest levels of primary school, open. It really needs to be done with a cool head and knowing that the impacts, for example. even opening scissors in the quality of education in the Czech Republic will be shown in the long term and we cannot afford to throw one whole year or two whole years overboard. Unfortunately, we'll all pay for it. I ask nicely, therefore, that this information is primarily about those criteria and also about how the model of admission procedures and graduation and final examinations is prepared in the spring of 2021, so that we can get the information briefly from the Minister of Health, namely from the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports. I also thank you on behalf of parents who actually write a very urgent request to make this decision so that the government can finally decide. Because if we hear again this week that these criteria will be known in a week, in 14 days, we really are in a desperate situation, and I am clearly protesting against that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u43	Thank you, too. Vice-President Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will, on behalf of the KSČM and ČSSD clubs, apply the veto on Bartoň's proposal to move the press to 503 teaching staff. This proposal was originally not to be included on today's day because we are going in half the format. We have reservations about this press, and we need to talk about it, so I'm applying the veto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u45	The veto on the transfer of an existing point is not possible. Mr. Václav Klaus on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u46	Hello, I also have a proposal for a change in the agenda for the Tricolor movement. Firstly, we will support Mr Výborný's proposal, because we have already called on the Government last week to open the first level of primary schools without delay. I'm not going to discuss the reasons, I think they're clear, and I guess I couldn't make it all in five minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose the inclusion of paragraph 165, House press 384, which protects the freedom of speech on large social networks, on Thursday after written interviews and after that first point, which are firefighters to follow. In the US elections that have just been held, we have witnessed the unprecedented behaviour of large social networks, e.g. blocked reports from the President-in-Office of the United States of America. I'm not talking about TV behavior. I understand that, for a small part of this House, represented mainly by the TOP 09 and the Pirates, censorship is desirable in the interests of the greater good. But I believe most of you have the opposite opinion. After all, 30 Members from all parliamentary clubs, with the exception of these two, are signed under this proposal. I mean, Mr. Vácha originally signed it, but then they got on his knees and called it off again. Recently there was also a petition for the protection of freedom of speech on social networks, which can be found on the pages stop-cenzure.cz . It was initiated by proud developer Daniel Vávra and signed by many public figures. Among other things, this petition was signed by President Jiří Ovčáček, the newly elected Senator Miroslava Němcová, on the one hand. I can't imagine a much bigger symbol of this being an important social theme beyond the foam of the days of a common party policy. Because it is no less than whether the public life is affected by elected representatives who can reach out to a sufficient number of voters or who cannot. Or if anyone gets a chance to reach out to voters, the owners of multinational corporations will decide. The example of the US should be a warning to us, it is in the interest of everyone who cares about the democratic and free Czech Republic so that the same example does not recur with us. Thank you for supporting my proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u47	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík is next on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I propose to extend the agenda of this meeting to the House press 978, an amendment to the Act on the salary of state officials. It's a proposal submitted by the Pirates, KDU-ČSL and the starosta. This proposal already has a deadline for discussion in order for second reading to take place and has received support from all Members present in the Committee on Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u49	So at this point, just putting him on the agenda. These are all the applications for the agenda. Then, with the priority right, President Pekarová Adamová, who wanted to speak at the end after all the proposals were heard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u50	Dear Government, my fellow Members, I do not wish to speak with a request to place a new point or to place an existing one, but with one question which, although of course, I could ask for the inclusion of a point, but it seemed unnecessary to me, I think it would only be appropriate to answer in the context of a priority right. I am sorry that the Minister of Health is not here, but I believe that the Prime Minister or one of the ministers will know the answer to this question. The question relates to the number of tests carried out in the last days for coronavirus. As you have noticed, the figures, because we are all certainly following closely the statistics of the Ministry of Health, started to look relatively favorable in recent days, even some journalists, some media interpret it this way, but with a closer look we find that just as the number of infected is falling, so the number of tests that have been carried out is very low. And I would like to know, and I believe that not only me, but the public and many of you, why that is. If it is possible to simply give an answer to what is happening in that area, why there is such a significant decline. It's not really anything else, I don't want to raise a new debate on this subject right now, which is why I'm also not coming before you with a request for a new point, but only with this polite question directed to government representatives who certainly have the information to explain this matter to us. And if this can be answered, I will be very grateful for it, because I believe that we are all eagerly looking forward to the possibility of the situation really turning to the better. And if it's only done on the basis of some kind of optical deception, it's certainly not possible to go over without explanation. Thank you in advance for your helpful answer. I firmly believe that one of the ministers here will be able to provide it, even though Minister Blatný is not here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u51	Thank you, too. All the drafts for the meeting were made here. I'll call the co-workers from the lobby. [[Gong.]] We will deal with the proposals, as has been said gradually. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop. Once again, the President is gonging.]] So, as is customary, we will first vote on the proposal, as presented by the political grémium of the Chamber of Deputies, with one vote. I'll wait a few more seconds for everyone to take their seats. [[Members are gradually entering the hall.]] I think there's enough of us. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the grémia proposal. Who's against it? In the vote number 236 entered 177, for 167, against no one. The motion was accepted. Mr Chvojka also spoke here with a proposal to shorten the deadline, but then he informed me that he was taking this proposal back, so we will not vote on it. We will vote on the proposal by Vice-President Filip, who proposes tomorrow after a fixed point, which is to discuss the first reading of the state budget, as a second point, he subsequently amended it, because there is still a proposal by President Fiala, but there was a veto, to be understood, paragraphs 199, 198 and 197. It's all a constitutional law to protect water. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote order number 237 entered 177, for 133, against 20. The motion was accepted. As I have already announced, President Fiala's proposal for press inclusion 966 cannot be discussed in favour of two parliamentary clubs. Furthermore, there is the proposal by President Stanjura to include paragraph 52, the amendment to the Income Tax Act, firmly after the second reading, as read in the light of the proposal adopted, namely point 35. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote order number 238 entered 178, for 79, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Now we have to deal with the most complicated proposal. President Bartošek was the very first to propose that item 503, which is on the agenda, should be ranked as the first point on Friday before the third reading. This proposal was made first. Then there were several proposals. I'm going to put it to a vote on how they went in chronological order, how they were individually lectured. First of all, it's the first point on Friday before we start discussing the third reading. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote order number 239 entered 178, for 66, against 2. The motion was not accepted. Mr. Faltýnek's proposal to place the item on Friday after the third reading this week. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? One moment, I object to whether the voting device works. Just a minute. I declare this vote confusing because I see here an objection that the voting device did not work, so the vote number 240 is not valid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u52	If I may repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-000-000.u53	I just checked you all out. I'm gonna ask you to come forward again. [[Permanent noise in the hall.]] I said, is everything okay? Can we vote? Prime Minister Bartošek, is that okay, can we vote? [[Yes.]] So we will vote in the vote order number 241 on the inclusion of the item on Bečva pollution, Friday after the third reading. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 241 registered 175, for 145, against 19. The motion was accepted. Mr Stanjura's proposal and President Bartošek's second proposal will therefore no longer be put to the vote. [[15.10 hours]] Mrs Jarošová also spoke and proposes the inclusion of a new point - the condemnation of Azerbaijan and Turkey's aggression against the civilian population in Náhorní Karabakh. First of all, we are voting on the inclusion of a new item. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 242. There's 168 registered, 63 against no one. The application for inclusion has not been accepted. We will no longer vote on solid inclusion. Mr Bartoň proposes to reschedule the amendment to the law on pedagogical workers, press 503, paragraph 18, for starters for points from Gremia, that is, for point 35. Since Mr Stanjura's proposal failed, that is, for point 35. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of this transfer? Who's against it? Voting number 243. Registered 175, 62 against no one. The motion was not accepted. Mr. Excellent proposes the inclusion of a new item Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the situation in education as a result of the pandemic COVID-19. We're voting for a new point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 244. 174 Members are registered, for 91, against no one. The motion was accepted. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] And now, the proposal for a fixed rank as the first point today after we deal with the laws passed by the Senate. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 245. Registered 174, for 59, versus 3. This proposal was not adopted. Mr Václav Klaus proposes paragraph 165, print 384, to include firmly this Thursday after written intercessions. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 246. It's logged in 175 for 29 against 6. The motion was denied. The last is Mr Ferjenčík's proposal that we put the press 978, on the salary of state officials, on the agenda of this meeting, because the deadlines have already been met. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 247. 175 Members are registered, for 164, against no one. This proposal was adopted. So, according to my remarks, we voted on all the proposals that have been made on the agenda today, and we will continue as approved. Opening point
