ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended /German press 972/ - shortened negotiations According to Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. 5 We should assess whether the conditions for discussing the above draft law are in the shortened negotiations. I am opening up a debate on this issue. Does anyone report to the debate for a brief hearing? No one is to be heard, the debate is closed, and we will proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, as amended, House Press 972, in a short hearing." [[Education law]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 11, 140 Members signed in for 124, against no one. The motion for a resolution has been approved. So I'm opening this already announced point. The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am before you today with the proposed amendment to the School Act. This amendment is part of the measures prepared and proposed by the Ministry of Education in response to the crisis situation related to the spread of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus. As you well know, as a result of the crisis measures announced by the government, a ban on the personal presence of pupils and students in schools took place in the second half of the 2019/2020 school year. This situation has shown us that for similar cases, and I have said so here in the House, it will be necessary to lay down clear rules for providing distance education and to establish these rules in the law. I also said, in response to Mr Mihola's parliamentary proposal and others, that their proposal did not address the matter in an appropriate way, and both in the House and in the Senate, I promised that we would prepare legislative anchorages in case and possible cases of quarantine measures, emergency or emergency measures by the Ministry of Health. After all, the Chamber of Deputies agreed on this and adopted two resolutions in this regard - 4 June and 8 July this year. I suppose there will be reservations in the discussion that this law is late, so I will just repeat the terms when the House called on: 4 June, 8 July. I am very pleased that we can address this issue at this extraordinary meeting today. I want to thank you in advance for that. I think that this is important, although it is a regulation of legislation, and, of course, if it were to run through a standard process, although we proposed as the Ministry to shorten the deadlines that have taken place and then to negotiate under Section 90, the process would be significantly longer. I firmly believe that this law will pass through the House today. And now for the content of the law. The draft law provides for the obligation of schools in defined cases to provide distance teaching for children, pupils and students. Thus, if, as a result of emergency or other emergency measures or as a result of quarantine, the personal presence of the majority of pupils in at least one class or other unit, group, etc. will be prevented, the school will be obliged to provide distance education to the pupils concerned. This applies to all schools, with kindergartens providing distance education only to children for whom pre-school education is compulsory. Children, pupils and students will be obliged to participate in distance education. That's the second part. Thus, not only will the school have a duty to provide, but children, pupils and students will be obliged to participate in distance education with the exception of pupils of basic arts and language schools for which participation in distance education will be voluntary. The school will be obliged to adapt distance teaching and evaluation to the conditions of the pupil. This is a response to the spring period, where it turns out that the basic condition of successful distance education, not only about online education, is to map the current situation in the family and adapt the mix of educational tools for distance education to current family conditions. The proposal also allows - and again, if you reflect our spring debates on why the Ministry will not give formal graduation etc., we discussed that, unlike Slovak legislation, where the Minister has de facto absolute right to adopt these extraordinary measures, Czech legislation does not regulate this. We did not go as far as the Slovak model in our proposal to like it for the Minister of Education, but we suggest that the Ministry of Education may issue a measure of a general nature that sets different deadlines and deadlines than the normal time limits and deadlines laid down by the Education Act, but not if the Minister or the Minister of Education likes it, but in those cases that we are talking about, an emergency, a quarantine measure in a region or emergency measures by the Ministry of Health or an emergency state. The reason for this provision is that the form and length of possible crisis measures cannot be foreseen. And once again, this is not a covido one-time amendment, it is a matter where, thanks to the covid, we have discovered that this matter is not at all regulated in the law, and we are adjusting it for various possible situations that may occur in future not only in connection with COVID-19. In the opening word, I will mention that, of course, one thing is to impose an obligation, the other is the conditions for remote education. As a government, we approved an increase of 1.3 billion in funding for primary schools of public authorities on Monday. CZK for the completion of these schools with ICT technology, software equipment or teaching programs, with the fact that they will be able to use these resources and will receive these funds by the end of October at the latest thanks to the ad hoc standard which is newly regulated by the school law, with the fact that the amount of funds they will be entitled to will be found in the coming days and can therefore take place in the meantime, so this financial injection, which otherwise goes beyond the founder of these schools, is intended by the government to create a loan fund in schools where computers, ICT technology are not available, and thus the potential situation of children who did not have access to technology in the spring term and distant education could not be carried out there. This means that the calculation, although it is for a teacher, contains some of the resources that should be deposited by the directors into the equipment for pupils who do not have the technology. So much for the introduction of the proposal that we are putting forward, and I am ready for discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u3	Thank you, Minister. The Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the President's decision, adopted a resolution, which we have at our disposal as House Press 972/1. And now I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr Ivo Pojezný, to take the floor and inform us of the discussion of this proposal in the committee. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The committee today dealt with the draft amendment of the law. So let me read his resolution number 230. Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, following the justification of the Minister of Education Robert Plaga, the report by Mr Ivo Pojezný and after the debate I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies the Czech Republic to end its negotiations by 20 August 2020 at the latest; IV. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic that with a government bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, as amended, House press 972, agreed in the submitted text; [[Education law]] V. Instructs the rapporteur of the Committee to: the Committee's opinion was communicated to the Assembly of Deputies; In cooperation with the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, he has made appropriate legislative technical adjustments. So much for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u5	Yes, thank you, rapporteur. Before I open the general debate, respectively. We must decide whether to open a general debate by voting. I have summoned all Members to the Chamber. We will vote on whether we will have a general debate. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 12, 136 Members voted in favour of 85, against 1, we will hold a general debate. I am opening up a general debate. Vice-President of the ANO Club, Mr Kubíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Once again, I would like to propose a reduction in the time for Members to speak in general and in a detailed debate for five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u7	Yes, thank you. There was a procedural proposal. I shall immediately vote on this proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 13, 136 Members registered, for 63, against 16. I note that the proposal has not been accepted and no time limit has been set for the limitation of speaking time. The first one entered in the general debate, registered in writing, is Mr Jiří Mihola. Mr. Dominik Feri will be ready. In the meantime, I'll introduce you to an apology. Minister of Justice Marie Benešová apologizes until the end of today's day for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u8	Hello, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I'm referring to what the Minister of Education suggested a moment ago as rhetorical, the law should have been here by now, and it could have been here. Finally, we know that the digitalisation of Czech education was offered by most parties in their electoral programmes. This important topic is not missing repeatedly in the strategies of the Ministry of Education and many other professional institutions. Unfortunately, the plans remain rather on paper, and so it is a paradox that the greatest shift in practice, and this is a well noticeable shift, occurred just in the time of the coronavirus pandemic. And here we need to commend both parents and teachers, because it is mainly due to their commitment, they certainly deserved this shift more than the Ministry of Education itself. Yet the online teaching that took place during spring had its shortcomings. Logically, we find ourselves in an unprecedented situation. We didn't have the experience. We could have said that in the spring. In the fall and the next time we can't afford to say it, because that would mean we haven't moved anywhere. According to information from the Czech School Inspectorate, around 10,000 pupils and students were not fully connected, they did not work online at all. However, the technical background was certainly not at the appropriate or necessary level in many places. The situation was certainly complicated by the compulsory-optional attendance, many teachers then worked on two fronts, conducted on-line teaching and conducted contact lessons. It was often tense in households, too, because by far not every Czech household has a computer for each of its members. And our task was to work in the spring not to look for a solution in the autumn, but to have a solution in the autumn. In the case of primary schools, it should be pointed out that, in fact, the otherwise godly pursuit of the online teaching took place on the basis of a legislative vacuum because it was not captured in the school law, unlike secondary schools. Members of the KDU-ČSL were aware of this and, therefore, at the beginning of the summer holidays, they submitted a parliamentary proposal supplementing distance education to the school law. The D.O.D. rejected the motion. That's why I'm saying, we could have gone on, we could have had it resolved, because even the parliamentary proposal as it would have been going through individual readings, so few of the proposals, you know, have the exact original form, so if there was a need to add, improve, the space would really be there, and we would just keep going. I'm particularly sorry because I've heard the proclamations here repeatedly, especially in those difficult moments in the spring - we're all on the same boat. But then you find that's not entirely true. When the parliamentary proposal is postponed, postponed, then a government proposal comes, which is basically the same, because I have no problem supporting the Minister's proposal and I will also support it, and this is how I asked my fellow KDU-ČSL Members to support this government proposal, because it is necessary, and indeed the philosophy or diction is very similar. With the paradoxically the parliamentary proposal tabled by me is only a little bit, I dare say, wider, because I do not only draw attention to the situation such as the corona pandemic or other possible epidemics or natural disasters, but I stress precisely in the context that we want to move the digitalisation of Czech education and really look like in the 21st century, so this, the online teaching is also possible for students who have long-term health problems or various specific requirements or are at some long-term study stay or for various reasons away from their tribal school. Moreover, however always, I have always said that the basis is contact instruction, and it will always be for me, so even in the contact instruction can be used in the 21st century, whether for work in school or for homework online teaching and we should be prepared for it. The legislation itself, as regards the inclusion of the online teaching for primary schools, is not complicated. The implementation is far more complex, because the change in legislation logically requires relatively massive investments in the equipment of schools, pupils with computer technology and, of course, the preparation of teachers to make this process of online teaching as best as possible. I am passing now the fact that such a laptop should have been part of the work equipment of teachers at all levels of schools long ago, but we do know that this is not the case. It is clear that the money that the government has allocated, and thanks for that - I always try to be positive and thank you that it has allocated a billion 300 million - but I am almost certain that it will not be enough, because it is pointing, as the Minister said on the committee this morning, especially to primary schools, but they will report to high school, eight-year high school, church schools and also kindergarten schools, which are often forgotten, that is what needs to be said here, which is also to be counted on. We have a mandatory ten-year schooling, and it applies to the last year in kindergarten, and however I understand and agree with the Minister that I don't expect that online teaching in the same way as if it were in primary or secondary school after that, that's for sure not, but that doesn't mean that the teachers don't deserve the equipment of the modern technique, they're interested in it, not that they don't. And so I'm pretty sure that a bunch of money isn't gonna be enough for that set aside after all. The Minister also noted that it is the task of organising this technical background mainly from the founders, i.e. cities, regions. I understand. But Minister, may I make a comment? Just because we know how difficult it is, it would require better communication with these founders, so that you don't remotely mention who has what or doesn't, because students and parents don't care so much. You need to sit at the table and figure out who can, so that it moves as far away as possible. And I think there was a reserve here or that it didn't happen the way it could. A few words to conclude with a manual that actually ties to this situation. Otherwise, I am glad that teaching according to the assurance of the Minister will normally start as contact, thank God and the Minister for that, and that about those adaptation weeks and perhaps schools in nature will take place, because I am a fan of practical knowledge. And it's a good thing the directors got the manual before the prep week. But he could have been sooner, he could have been discussed. And, of course, if I could just step in, maybe I could easily advise that some of those stylistic forms could be cut out there, so that they wouldn't serve different social media jokers afterwards, because I assume that baskets in classrooms are made at least once a day, especially during the summer season, they really do, because otherwise there would be an unbearable smell, maybe just from the husks of bananas and the like. Also, ventilation is always good, it doesn't have to be so stressed that the best windows and fresh air. [[12.20 hours]] One last comment on Mr Baxa's ODS amendment. I very much support that. Unfortunately, he failed the school committee. And it's a big mistake. You know what the tense situation was with the high school entrance exams. Totally useless. There could have been two dates. In my opinion, nothing prevented it, but it was in the hands of the Minister of Education. You know that, in an emergency, I have tabled a parliamentary motion and could not even be discussed. This is what my colleague Baxa is dealing with in his amendment to avoid such situations. I think that the House of Sovereigns should be in this, which, when the situation somehow develops, as it developed well in the spring, could change and we could avoid completely unnecessary misunderstandings, tension. It's already been a lot for the students, the students, and their parents. So why do we need to process it by taking it off or by defending it from the students? I didn't mean to slow down, I'm against it. The date of the entrance exams and the possibility of appeal - a completely useless thing. So in conclusion, I want to declare that I will support this government proposal because I am in favour of online teaching being part of the school law. We're going to fix this legislative vacuum. But we need to think about all the levels of schools, not just the basics, and communicate with the founders as well. And again, I intercede for the amendment by my colleague, Mr Baxa, to support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u9	Thank you. Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill put forward introduces an obligation to participate in distance schooling. The SPD agrees with that. It's about government measures. What else can I say? Coronavir is a real mutation of influenza. And, as Mr Prymula mentioned, this virus is clearly weakening and the course of the disease is getting easier. The virus will never disappear, mutate, and gradually weaken before the next one appears. Panic from this coronavirus is not appropriate. I agree with experts that we have far bigger and really deadly threats, which are surprisingly not solved by the state with such a panic and force, such as the real epidemic of cancer, which every third citizen of the Czech Republic will suffer during life and every fourth person will die from it. Thanks to Czech paramedics, they have managed to improve the results of treatment in recent years. But it doesn't change the fact that the mass cancer rate of both society and the state doesn't really systemically solve, and cancer prevention may be in many areas of our lives. However, the above does not change the fact that it is right that we are discussing an amendment to the Education Act, which introduces a duty for children to participate in distance teaching as part of compulsory schooling. And that might not even be covid, but simple logic, because we have a lot of children who can have really dangerous diseases like TB or HIV, or we have children who are permanently bedridden, and we also have children abroad, and many of them have been learning through the Internet for years as part of individual education in cooperation with a school in the Czech Republic. So we know that some schools can do that. If I order someone to study at home through a computer, the state must ensure that such a law can be obeyed. It must arrange not only the computer, but also the connection. The internet in each household should be a matter of course in the future. And free. I've been saying for a long time that the state shouldn't have gotten rid of its telecommunications operator. And when he has already done so because of the incredibly stupidity of one part of politicians and because of the very believable sales of another part of politicians, he should correct that mistake. For years, I have been saying that the state should provide the Internet through its own operator through a nationwide Wi-Fi free of charge to every household, to every state entity, whether it be authorities, hospitals, police or schools. National coverage is not a technical problem, it is not a technical problem, and it would bring hundreds of million savings not only to households but also to the state, because institutions, authorities and so on could communicate for free. All you have to do is look at how many people pay the operators and figure out how much they'd save. Moreover, the profits of telecommunication in the order of billions now largely flow abroad. In today's situation, I hope you ladies and gentlemen wouldn't mind if they stayed in the Czech Republic in the pocket of our citizens. Of course, a state telecommunication company would have commercial services, which in this case do not rank the above, which means that citizens and state institutions could connect to the Internet for free, so they would also have free calls to each other, so that other commercial services could provide with a moderate profit and that could be a further income of the state budget. The state can no longer increase its revenue by increasing taxes and levies and must find its own resources. Even those who have fought for capitalism will understand that. It all came back to us as a boomerang in the form of unhealthy tax addiction from citizens and companies. The idea of free internet should also appeal to our Bruselan. Even the EU approved a similar plan to build at least occasional free Wi-Fi at 6,000 locations in Europe in 2017. Of course, as always with Brussels, this is a non-systemic step. But I think they'll be able to get there in a few years for free coverage. In our case, it's just whether we're gonna wait a few more years for somebody to order us, or we're gonna do it ourselves, and we're gonna make the most of it both state and citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u11	Thank you. There is a factual comment by Mr Zdeněk Podal. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u12	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to comment on the proposed law, namely point 1. Schools are required to provide distance education for the children, pupils or students concerned. However, schools do not have enough technical background, financial possibilities. We learned that the money will not go to the teacher until the end of October, but the beginning of the school, as we know, is in September. And many families and children in the IT area are illiterate. At the same time, not every family has access to the Internet. That's what Mr Okamura mentioned here that the solution would be, but at this point, we don't have it. The funds made available by the Ministry do not address this illiteracy. Furthermore, the lack of teachers is not addressed if the teaching is conducted in both remote and direct ways. It is limited to the possibility of focusing on pupils coming from a different language environment, and the whole thing complicates inclusions, where the distance method is more than debatable. To point 2. This paragraph is very vague and does not sufficiently specify the requirement of the Ministry, such as the selection of subjects taught in a distance manner. To point 3. Practice has shown that this does not really work so that the school adapts to the conditions of the child. Many children and parents took this education as a continuation of vacations, and the school has no tool to get parents and pupils to be educated. Most teachers focus on the part of pupils, where parents and children's efforts are, and also on the technical ability to educate themselves in this way. The solution would be to work with parents first to master the technique of distance education themselves, and then to transfer this knowledge to their children. If they have the appropriate technical equipment, of course. And if there is no solution to this situation, there will be some of the students and students and the rest will be virtually uneducated. Thank you for your comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u13	Thank you. Mr Dominik Feri, Mr Martin Baxa, will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u14	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President. My honourable colleague František Vácha, who is a member of the school committee, will perform with the opinion of our MP. I would like to respond to the same agenda, similar agenda, related agenda, namely manual. And not confrontationally, because of course we all know that it could have been sooner, and so on, we've met here many times, but practically, because since yesterday I've had hundreds of questions that, of course, are - apart from the common questions, how are we supposed to wear drapes in the hallways and we don't have to, that's been explained many times - about the specific things students are dealing with, and I'm not surprised that they're dealing with them. Five years ago, I dealt with them, too, and I would have given them great importance. But I'll start with something about the contents of the manual itself. It says in the manual, and it is a recommendation provision that the Ministry of Education does not count on the national Olympics. And I would like to explain if it really means what it says, and what it means to recommend that the ministry as if it were recommending itself: let's not do the Olympics. I think that the Olympics are something that a large part of students like to participate in, what they are developing in various fields, they are also developing disciplines that many of us consider very important and where they feel that they might be interested in more students, natural sciences and so on, and if there is no alternative to saying that this is not going to be possible across the board, but maybe it will be local, or they will support the online Olympics, for example, they will simply look for ways rather than the reasons why they will deal with it with such a general ban. That's one common question, perhaps the Minister will answer. The next question concerns matters which the Ministry of Education cannot directly interfere with, but still for most of these measures, it has collaborated with the Ministry of Health, and this is a matter of graduations. Students don't know if they're supposed to prepare them, there's big money in it, schools don't know if they're gonna prepare them. The money is very often school, because somewhere the school is covering it up, somewhere students themselves are covering it up. I would like to ask the Minister if the Ministry has considered any alternative, for example, whether it has considered any compensation, provided that the school has invested money in it and lost it, or whether it is something that will only be dealt with in the future. Let the students know what they're up to. And the last thing related. The Ministry of Education is not only the Ministry of Education, but the Ministry of Youth, and what students are dealing with is the hygiene conditions for dances that await us in the autumn, and if this is solved in any way. [[Easy fun on the left.]] You may find this amusing, but I will forward the questions to you through the President on purpose. There really are hundreds of them. Thank you in advance for answering these questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u15	Thank you. Minister Plaga will respond with a factual remark. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u16	Thank you. Although this is not the case, this contribution was not the law, so I will allow us to return to the present law, to respond quickly. As far as the manual is concerned, I think the reaction, as well as yesterday's reaction, from the directors that are continuously running on ČT24, the feedback that it is sufficiently forward. I understand that it needs to be said that it is late, but remember that the guidelines for the preparatory week - start next week and we announced in July that the measures were somehow structured and that they would not be new, that they would be prosecutable by the directors. So the feedback from the directors is that what is described there is feasible. Anyway, the surface wearing of the drapes is based on an extraordinary measure by the Ministry of Health. And if it's prescribed into some space, it's prescribed there, and it's prescribed probably epidemiologically-hygienicly, even if it might be for debate. Anyway, I've got a minute to get to the competitions, although I'm very fast. If this is done remotely, they can be organized. The recommendation that national rounds would not be announced or the information that national rounds would not be announced is there. Of course, if the hygiene standards don't prevent it, that means it's online, it's correspondent, which are also these types of competitions, so that can happen. And for those who do not organise, the Ministry of Education does not announce, so it is recommended that their conduct be moved to the second half of this school year. It's not some general ban, it's just an adjustment to the situation. If the situation improves, there is a recommendation for the second semester and they can run online. As far as dance and other things are concerned, it is indeed a manual, as well as hygiene standards in schools in nature are not a matter of the Ministry of Education. We only support the youngsters who organize them. So the standards for organizing dances aren't really set by the Ministry of Education, so I'm not gonna answer that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u17	Thank you, Minister. Mr Martin Baxa will now speak in the general debate. Mr. Lukáš Bartoň will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u18	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon. Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me speak not only on the subject of the bill tabled here, but actually on the overall situation relating to how this year's school year should begin. I would like to comment on three things, on the manuals, on school equipment and, of course, on my own bill, on which I have prepared an amendment, which I will also read here in a detailed debate. In an argument that relates to the conditions under which schools will be opened on 1 September 2020, the Minister here said that criticism of the late publication of the manual is pointless, that it was in terms that were said, and that today the directors are expressing themselves positively about the manual. Yet, Minister, I am convinced that the manual was issued late and that for several weeks not only schools but also parents were exposed to restlessness and nervousness, because they simply could not know, and that is the key argument that will be in the manual. A very strong measure could have been expected to create great demands on the way in which the organisation of the teaching will be ensured. For example, we are talking about Italy's example at the moment, where the school year is likely to begin by each pupil sitting alone in his bench. There were considerations that the teaching would be divided into different parts of the week, and that would put great demands on those schools. So I think the criticism that the Ministry of Education hesitated to publish the manual was justified, and it's not just my opinion. A number of opinions from the professional public pointed to this, for example, the teacher platform bringing together teachers and school directors, which also pointed out during the holiday period that it is not yet clear what the conditions will be in this situation. However, I must point out, and I want to say this publicly, that the result, which means the manuals for opening schools from 1 September 2020, is good and that the manual brings mostly positive news for schools, and I would like to appreciate it. Of course, there are various parts in this document that are debatable, some measures will be problematic in relation to how to ensure them. But the manual brings, in my opinion, two basic good news. The first report is that the school year in the Czech schools begins on 1 September 2020 in standard mode, i.e. there are no special measures planned to start the presentation as the pupils are used to it. And why, after all, it is important that the presentation in our country takes place as we are used to it. And the second report, the good news, is also based on my experience during the fight against the coronavirus crisis, namely that the manual does not impose any responsibilities on schools and their directors to come into contact with regional health stations themselves. That really worried me. And that the manual is based on the principle that school directors are not the ones responsible for the state of health of their pupils, in relation to regional health stations that, at various occurrences, suspected of having any pupil's symptoms of Covid-19, the director will not be the one who should contact the regional health station, I think, was very important and relief for schools. So in this respect, I'm sure the manual deserves a good evaluation at the moment. It is good news, let us just trust that the situation will be such that teaching can take place during the school year as it begins on September 1, 2020. As a good report, I also want to evaluate the fact that the government has decided to release considerable funds for IT school equipment. It was a big problem that appeared during the spring coronavirus crisis, whether it was school equipment or family equipment. The data of the Czech School Inspectorate pointed out that part of the pupils remained completely out of school, part of the pupils had problems with long-term learning, and the hardware equipment of the schools is certainly positive, as was said, i.e. a contribution of CZK 20,000 per account, but also the creation of a fund for lending these funds to pupils. [[12.40 hours]] But what I want to evaluate critically, especially in the context of how the government of Andrej Babiš has massively indebted our country is that the state aid is limited to public primary schools. I understand, of course, the argument that this is primarily about ensuring compulsory schooling in the event of a coronavirus crisis for pupils who have compulsory schooling, but, Minister, we must say that there are also elementary schools that are not established by public founders, they are private schools and church schools that provide compulsory schooling, and they have been excluded from that system. And I am critical of the fact that, at a time when the government has great funding, secondary education has been neglected because, on the one hand, I perceive the argument about compulsory school attendance, on the other hand, education in secondary schools is very important, not only from the general aspect of secondary education across the whole Republic, but when emphasis has been placed on the state of education during the spring debate on the state of education, so that these measures do not go to pupils who come from a socially insensitive environment, where it is all the more important that they are engaged in secondary education, so that this support does not go to secondary schools, for example, in structurally affected regions, but generally to secondary schools, but generally, I think that the good news is not. And my challenge, Minister, is to think about whether to not extend this support to secondary schools, to teachers who work in secondary schools of different types, and to high school pupils who have had problems with having a secure connection or at all being able to get into distance education during the school year or the second half of last year. And now, ladies and gentlemen, on your own bill of mandatory distance learning. As I have assessed my previous points positively, both by manuals and thus by allocating money to IT equipment, I do not think the law on compulsory distance teaching at a time of crisis is simply a good law. In my opinion, it is a semi-finished product. This is a speedy legal standard, for one simple reason. Compulsory distance learning in crisis time is in principle correct. I am convinced that if, for God's sake, the situation as it was in the spring should be repeated, it is essential to establish the duty of distance teaching in the school law. But this law is the letter A, and behind it doesn't follow the letter B, which should definitely be there. This means how much support will be given to schools to provide compulsory distance teaching - it is actually a completely different model from the one that schools were forced to adapt quickly during the spring period - so that this support is also provided for families, for parents and for pupils who are obliged to participate in distance teaching under this law. I do not now want to point out such purely practical things at this point in time, the way in which excuses will therefore be given to pupils who have a designated compulsory education in the distance regime and will not be able to attend it. I simply want to point out in general that parents and schools need comprehensive support on this matter. And if, at the same time as this law, the Ministry of Education were told that a whole series of methodological guidelines were coming, or other materials that the schools would support in this, my opinion would certainly be positive, and the opinion of the Civil Democratic Party on this law would be positive. So that's what I see in the basic problem. The principle of compulsory distance education is correct, the way, the speed with which the law was presented, without supplementing, what forms of support will be provided to those who need to be educated at a time of crisis, or to those who provide distance education, is simply not correct. And I would like to comment on my amendment, which I will read on this law in a detailed debate. It is a sort of stealthy measure, an inconspicuous provision which is at the end of this bill and which concerns some kind of authority of the Ministry to set the terms and conditions of admission and termination - in this case we are primarily talking about secondary education. We can certainly lead the debate - and my amendment does not point to this - on the fact that the Ministry of Education could have the competence to change deadlines. Situations can evolve in different ways, and it is logical that there may be some temporal shift. Here I am willing to accept that the Ministry should have such an option in a crisis state, but what I certainly do not intend to accept, and that is why I will propose the amendment, is that in this bill there is actually an authorisation measure for the Ministry of Education, where the Ministry can also change the way in which these tests are laid down in the law. It was already in the spring term. We had a big debate on the single entrance exam, when the government and the minister decided to cancel the second term of the single entrance exam. I do not think that there were enough arguments at the time that both deadlines for a single entrance exam had certainly been met, but at that time the Minister had to come to the Chamber of Deputies with this proposal, then to the Senate, and Parliament had the opportunity to discuss this matter, to submit amendments, to subject it to a public debate. This empowering provision, which is in the proposal for a law on compulsory distance teaching, but is taking this option from Parliament. The Ministry of Education applies this competence to itself, and it could, in fact, decide, without parliamentary discussion, whether to change the way in which the exam is final, or the way in which uniform entrance exams are set. The Minister here argued with the Slovak model that the Slovak Minister of Education had this competence. But in my opinion, this competence should not be enshrined in the Czech legal system, and I am convinced that even in a crisis situation, as we have had an opportunity on this land many times in the spring period, there is a clear scope for Parliament to sit down and to decide whether the situation is serious enough to change the important thing that affects many hundreds of thousands of pupils in Czech schools. So, in this sense, I will put forward my amendment, and we will certainly monitor, together with our colleagues, how the Minister will stand up to this amendment, which relates to the law on compulsory distance teaching at a time of crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, let me express my thanks again to Czech schools, directors, teachers and non-teaching staff who have been subjected to severe tests in recent months, which have come suddenly, quickly, which have come without a chance to prepare for them, and I think they have done a great deal of work. Parents and families were in such a difficult situation, and I think they did what was possible at the time. I would like to say that I am not sure that the Ministry has acted quickly enough in the same months. Now it turns out that in some cases the Ministry of Education has been able to adapt to this situation and, for example, in the case of manuals, to do a good job, but the law itself, which we are discussing here, in my opinion, is not proof of the quality of the Ministry's work in such a difficult situation. I will, of course, read the House document 6077, which contains my amendment, and I would like to ask you for its support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u19	Thank you. Mr Lukáš Bartoň will now speak in the debate, and Mrs Olga Richterová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Members of Parliament, honourable Members, Minister, there are positive and negative things to say about the bill. I guess I'll start with the positive ones, start with the praises. This law aims to seal the gap that we had in the law, namely the possibility of distance education in a time of crisis that we tried in the spring and which was outside the legal framework in the spring under existing legislation. At the same time, I would also appreciate the fact that, in distance education, the framework education programmes, school education programmes and the content of education can be adapted to the fact that this is a different form of education. At the same time, I would also appreciate the fact that students who do not have a material opportunity to participate in online teaching are remembered here, and schools have to adapt this distance education to these pupils as well. [[12.50 hours]] What we have a problem with is the duty of distance learning. We clearly agree that there should be an obligation for education, even during quarantine, quarantine is not a holiday, students should continue to be educated. We also agree with the legal introduction of this obligation and, of course, the school's obligation to provide this distance education. When we look at the school law, there is defined a distance form of education, but it is provided mainly electronically or completely electronically, which cannot be used for this because it would not be possible to treat pupils who do not have the option to material equipment. This is why there is a new term, and this is a distance way of education, under which you can imagine both online teaching and, for example, a paper version for students who do not have equipment for online teaching. This is very helpful to the students that in some way they can ensure this obligation, but it is a legal obligation. That is what we lack is an implementing regulation, a decree that would clearly define what the form of distance education is, what the parameters are, that this legal obligation has been fulfilled. It's not here. In the law is only vaguely stated, in general, that there is a duty of distance learning. But what does all this mean? When will this student do his duty? When will the school fulfill its obligation to provide this education? Let me give you an example. It may be easy for a teacher to enter a student's homework, which will be completed by four out of eight. The parent will say: yes, he fulfilled four of the eight, he fulfilled the responsibilities of distance education. The teacher says, no, he only fulfilled four out of eight, he didn't fulfill the duty of distance education because he didn't do it all. Or the time standard, the student will be in distance education from morning to evening when he is loaded, and the parent simply needs some standard, some authority that says: that's power, eight hours tops, so that the parent can simply say: my child has been distancely educated for eight hours and doesn't have to go on. And this is what's missing. Therefore, we also discussed on the school committee the possibility of the implementing decree, which would actually set this, the criteria that are the obligation when the obligation will be fulfilled. Because as it is in the law, it is a general fact and one educator can say: it has been fulfilled, the other educator can say: it has not been fulfilled. And if we have a legal obligation whereby an OSPOD can be sent to the family and the child can be taken away, it cannot be defined in this way in general. There must be clear rules as to whether the legal obligation has been fulfilled or not. For this reason, we are proposing that this obligation be limited to the following school year, with the Ministry preparing the sub-legal standards and presenting it again, and if the Ministry is lax and does not prepare these sub-legal standards, this obligation will actually disappear from the law in the next school year. This was not accepted on the school committee's premises; it did not have any support for this proposal. Although I will rejoin it in a detailed debate, we have prepared at least an accompanying resolution on the basis of the discussions in the Education Committee in which we want the government to process this very sub-legal standard. I'll read it: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic 1. Asks the Government to prepare and process a follow-up implementing legislation specifying the definition of distance learning and the conditions for its implementation due to the newly imposed obligation of schools to provide distance training and the obligation of pupils to participate in such training, no later than three months after the application of the government bill submitted; 2. Instructs the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports to discuss the following implementing legislation." I would be pleased if you would support both the amendment and the accompanying resolution. Personally, or our entire club, I will also support the amendment of my colleague Baxa, who also deals with the powers that the Ministry may have in a time of emergency against the entrance and final exams. In this ministry, we no longer have our confidence on the basis of what happened in the spring, when the Ministry actually took one term from the single entrance exam with its proposal, and we certainly would not want it to have that power without Parliament being consulted. The debate in Parliament is important when it interferes with the rights, the possibilities of students, and I think that the debate that took place here in the spring has its meaning, and we would not want the Ministry to have that power. At the same time, we have nothing against the Ministry's power to push the deadline on the basis of current developments, because there is a need for it to react very quickly somewhere, which in Parliament is not so real, but we do not want the general possibility of the ministry to interfere in any way with the conditions of entrance exams and final examinations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, Mrs Olga Richterová will perform. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u22	Thank you for the floor. Hello. Ladies and gentlemen, I know there are not many of you in this room, but Mrs Valachová or Mrs GajdůGajdůšková will have to speak after me. I suppose many of you want to vote in favour of this law purely because you are in a coalition, purely because your minister is presenting it. I get it. But please, it doesn't seem that the law will have a huge impact on the situation of all parents of children by compulsory school. It's a vague law without a promise that the Ministry will draw up a relevant sub-legal standard, a decree. I think it's much more important than you, my fellow colleagues, think. It is a law that will really make it possible for OSPOD to go to families and in the finals even to initiate various procedures for the removal of children. That's something that needs to be perfectly clear how it's gonna work. It is a law that will make it possible to sharpen the differences between parents if it is not clear again what the child really has to do. It's a law that can't work if the infirmary isn't secured for all groups of working parents. Minister Plaga, do you know that we do not have an infirmary for tradesmen and people working on work agreements or doing work? These groups of parents will not be able to live up to their responsibilities, because even if they pay their insurance, even if they do pay sick leave, they are not entitled to medical care in our country at all. For the coronavirus, we have exceptionally approved it for the pandemic. And I'm telling you the rope, Mr. Minister, the point is that in a country that doesn't provide all working parents with the possibility of being quarantined by a child in an infirmary, it's not possible to impose an obligation to educate a child in any way. And this connection is neglected. Similarly, it is not clear how the conditions for schools will be secured, so that they will have not only iron - the purchased computers - but also the opportunity to help with Internet access and some basic training. That's what nonprofit organizations do today. It works perfectly through the Computer Initiative to children, through the Czech Republic. Digital. But please, does the Ministry communicate with these organizations? Are you discussing how to re-melt the practical experience in the entire state practice? [[13.00 hours]] I'm going to take these questions once more, but first I'd like to quote what we've already approved here in the House. We, as the Chamber of Deputies, have asked the government to process and publish a comprehensive support plan for distance teaching in schools. This resolution of the Chamber of Deputies requires such a comprehensive plan to be drawn up by 31 August. It is a plan for the situation if schooling is reduced again. And unfortunately, its fulfillment here is not a praising methodology. This plan is missing. It's not clear how to make sure the purchased computers don't just lie flat.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u23	I'm sorry, Madam. I must interrupt you at this moment. Of course, you will be the first to perform immediately after lunch break. I warn all Members that today we have a different timetable, the lunch break will only be between 13:00 and 14:00. The afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will continue at 14 o'clock. At this point, I'm interrupting, or I'm ending this morning's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u24	Dear Members, I am opening the afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and we will continue to discuss this point, that is to say, the Government's bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, so called. School law, as amended, House press 972 - shortened negotiations. We interrupted the discussion of this point before the lunch break in the general debate. So I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken up by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga and the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Ivo Pojezný. So we will now continue the interrupted general debate. Before lunch, Mrs Olga Richterová's speech was suspended. But he's not present... You want the Minister's presence, don't you? So the Minister... I don't know where he is. Or does anyone in the government know where the minister is? It's not, so we're gonna give it three minutes to get here. Thirty seconds. Well, you can't set it up here, so let's give it a minute. After the deal here a minute, so I'm declaring a break until 14.04 for the minister to arrive. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 14.02 to 14.04 hours.]] So, we have 14.04, so we will now continue the adjourned general debate and the floor of Mrs Olga Richterová, whose speech has been suspended. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u25	Thank you for the floor. I'm glad we're all here. But the discussion is supposed to be a discussion about the quality of the bill. I care about adopting legislation that provides a clear legal framework. This law applies to all children's parents by compulsory school. It concerns the extent of their duties. What they're gonna have to do when their kid's in quarantine. And I just want the minister to explain exactly what parents can expect and how they will support them. Of course, it's not just the parents, it's the teachers, it's the schools. So far, I see it, and the Pirates Club sees it as just taking responsibility from the Ministry of Education. It just makes it easier for the central authority of state power, but they blame it on everyone else and let them deal with it somehow. This is totally unacceptable to me. So, if I may sum up, ladies and gentlemen, then Mrs Valachová or Mrs Gajdůškovášková, who are coalitional, will be very interested in your opinion on these matters, as well as from the Minister. How the state will encourage parents to do their new duty. As you have parametrically agreed in the government that the treatment will be solved for people working on various types of agreements and taking out sickness insurance and for people working as businessmen - the CFI. Because they're not entitled to the infirmary at all today. The only thing I'm interested in is parametrically whether you've got a match on this. Otherwise, they wouldn't be able to do the duty at all. Then, of course, I am wondering whether you will step aside, Minister, from your intention and write a decree that would specify how to address apologies, how to deal with, for example, disproportionate costs from certain teachers, how to deal with, for example, some standard general hourly scale that should last, and so on. In short, an explanation of what it means to be a distance way of education. It is also, of course, the context of the OSPOD, the institution of social-legal protection for children. Once again, it must be discussed from the MPSV, when it will be on the optimization of the OSPOD. Without such clarification, it is highly irresponsible to approve this law. And I'm not asking that the decree be completed today. I ask that there be a general answer to these parametric questions. I ask that it be clear whether the law will cause anything other than chaos. And I ask that it be explained how this duty imposed on parents will at least be defined by framework. Finally, I would like to ask you, fellow Members, to reconsider the agreed coalition support for such a vague law. Without the promise of a decree, it is highly irresponsible to approve it. We must not care how the infirmary will be resolved, how a reasonable extent of responsibilities for parents will be established, and what the connection will be to the OSPODs, which solve divorce disputes, and which in the finals will be solved by the removal of children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u26	I now call on Mrs Kateřina Valachová to speak and to prepare Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear government, Minister, allow me to comment, too, on the amendment to the school law. This amendment to the Education Act is presented to us, among other things, as fulfillment of our July parliamentary resolution, so it is a good thing that we have a law on distance education here today. I must say, however, I was a little surprised that its effectiveness for the future is therefore calculated on all other possible situations under the crisis law and that it is unlimited. I'll tell you why I was surprised. [[14.10 hours]] Like a number of parents, grandparents, teachers, teachers and directors, I have been in the past months, true, from the media - and the Minister of Education will undoubtedly specify this - she has registered that the intention is first to respond quickly to the current situation of the possible return of COVID-19 to schools by adjusting the law on distance education, which would therefore really respond acutely to the situation, so that we are at least ready on the ground from 1 September. And then, in the past few months, I've registered that the intention was to prepare, say, a grunt, a law on long-distance education, distance education, which would take into account everything we've prepared at the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in those past years in the context of pilot verification, in what we actually learned in the context of project preparation, in the financing of European money, and so on. This is what I actually assumed. So from this point of view, what we're discussing right now is actually distance education kind of halfway, because on the one hand, it's legally forever, on the other hand, let's say, the content of the education, what it means and so on, it's definitely not worked out. I am just saying this for the sake of order, because my colleague Jiří Mihola, through you, Mr President, spoke here about the fact that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Physical Digital Education has not been addressed, or according to him it has not been addressed. I strongly disagree with that. In recent years, not only pilot verification, but also funding through European funds, methodological cabinet, ICT. And I could keep going. This means the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports Teacher Education and Teachers within the NIDV, now a transformed institute here. So we certainly don't start in a green meadow. But as I'm saying, at this point, we have something in between the ad hoc, the fast law, and let's say, the grunt one. So I will ask the Minister of Education, through you, Mr President, to clarify this. Personally, I would rather choose for one school year the law that we have on the table, and, as I say, the grunt one together for the future and after consultation with the professional public, therefore, during the following months for those years to come. However, we have discussed this situation at our social democracy parliamentary club and it is sufficient, let us say, for the Minister's promise that we will not freeze to death on this law, but we will continue to work on this grunt law towards distance education, distance education, for the future. In this case, we will support the law as it is, and we will not support the amendments tabled at this time. We believe that we are in a legislative emergency and therefore, as coalition parties, we will support the law as it has been put forward. But as I say, we ask the Minister's public promise that this law will not remain forever. The second thing I wanted to talk about is compulsory schooling. Ladies and gentlemen, this has been very much discussed during July and August about the right to vote, as is our fundamental right and how we all have to agree on it, and the political parties have acted and, therefore, a few tens of minutes ago, we have approved the rules for the electoral right of people in quarantine. I would be quite pleased if we cared the same way about the fact that this concerns 1,300,000 children and their right to education, education. It's equally crucial. And, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that just at the time we are at, education, children's education and the future are important not only for the right to education of each of our children, but frankly, it is not a cliché when I say it is absolutely crucial for the future of the Republic. So let's not spare any effort or money. And here I just want to say that the feedback from the schools points out that super, thumbs up, that funding goes to elementary schools for long-distance education, but then a raised finger and an exclamation point - don't forget us, the last year of preschool education, motherhoods are ringing up. And they say multi-year grammar school and grammar school, high school and school, teaching center - don't forget us from the point of view of providing long-distance education, so we don't stay alone. I would like to say that in the case of teaching schools and secondary vocational schools, very often there were students and students who had problems, say, with the economic provision of the very long-distance education. And the school directors point out that it was a big problem in the schools - a lack of participation in full-time education in the spring of this year. So again, please... I saw that the material approved by the government - again, it is perfect, let's say, the second inch up - that the funding that we, as long-distance education MPs, supported in July and some pushed through, was still increased. I'm glad to hear that, but I think that as the Ministry of Education said in the material that it was a foreplay, it's some sort of basic step, so I believe that this will work out in the next steps. I say for myself, the budgetary requirements of the Ministry of Education have my full support, and I believe that your colleagues, colleagues, across the political spectrum. The third thing I wanted to talk about is that the Minister of Education, even today at the plenary, responded several times on the school committee. This has nothing to do with the Distance Education Act, it's a matter of the manual. I beg to differ here. We need functional distance education. And in order for it to work, we need a functional law, a functional manual, a functional measure by the Minister of Health present here, a medical one, in the direction of how, for example, the practice of drapes in schools and so on. We also need funding to make distance education work. And frankly, we may need a number of other rules for which the Minister has competence in the framework of the Minister's or the legislation. We should say this fair and honest to the school and, above all, our children, work it off. In this sense, I want to say - and again, the question towards the Minister through the President. Manuals do not seem to contain rules or recommendations to help children's homes, educational institutions and boarding schools again. I note that I am based on some feedback from my social networks and e-mails. Here I would like to ask that by the beginning of the school year the manual be completed for these three groups. I won't discuss why. I think we all understand that they're part of our system, and we shouldn't forget them. And the last two things are not entirely relevant, or, let's say, they are not just within the competence of the Minister of Education, but they have to do with making it work for us, and I think the Minister of Education is the one who should therefore hold the banner and ensure that schools have enough protective equipment. Here I am saying that the manual says quite harshly that teachers and teachers are no longer entitled to personal protective equipment on the drape. I have informed myself that the government, that is our government, has enough protective equipment within the reserve, within the state's material reserves, that we are sufficiently stocked at the moment, and so I would like to ask the Minister if he himself has any plan for possible support, if the return of COVID-19, let's say, is wider than a local outbreak, because I believe that we can work out and that we should ensure that we ensure, if necessary, through central assistance, that we have drapes, these drapes for our teachers and teachers. I would point out that there are two reasons why we should do this. Firstly, there are 1.3 million children, pupils and students. I quote, it is scientifically proven - surely the Minister of Health can support this - that children show themselves quite unmarked in terms of covid and can be carriers. And the second thing about teachers and teachers - and the Minister of Education knows that again, and we, after all, know that as Members, too - we rely more, most of our teachers are at the age of 50+. That means, after all, they fit into risk groups, or they take care of their grandparents themselves, and of course there can be a number of life situations that we should respect. So the challenge - let's do this for security, respect and caution within schools, education children and the safety of teachers and teachers. And the last thing that Olga Richterová has been bitten by you here, Mr President -- I'm actually doing a little bit on this counter -- and that's the question of the infirmary in case the baby is quarantined, as I have already found out from the point of view, by covid or on suspicion. You know we're here - and I've been involved in this enforcement for the last time with you - to enforce an infirmary for parents even at 80 percent, but it was limited until 30 June. This has passed, and we are at this point in a situation where not voluntarily, as in spring, but we are bound to go on distance lessons that children and, of course, parents, grandparents, as we were used to help, because without that we cannot, distance education, especially for smaller pupils or children. But the infirmary is at this point 60 percent and only nine days. [[14.20 hours]] What's my point? The nine days are a huge problem, because we can't, in my opinion, leave it that way if we can have blackouts longer than nine days of compulsory schooling. So I, esteemed colleagues, will try to convince the coalition partner, because I have not yet succeeded in unblocking the infirmary for parents in case of binding to mandatory distance teaching so that during the time when the school does not work, the class, so that the infirmary, as it is, is not increased, at least 60 per cent, but longer than now nine days, is possible. And I'll tell you which target group of parents and children I'm most concerned about. They're singles and singles. I don't know how you do, but if he turns off the class in quotes as a result of covid, you are alone in raising children, which of course can be one, you can have two children, you can have three, one is covido, or even three, it doesn't matter, you simply have quarantine, you have to watch him, you must not leave him and at the same time you have a remote education, where it is not always about teaching online, but it can go pick up tasks in school, and until you have a zero after nine days, that means, you probably live out of the air and for nine days you're half of your income, so I don't even get over my head, and I believe that we MPs and MPs together with the government will find this solution to the infirmator and unblock the upper limit, as I say, under the current conditions of 60 percent of wages, but when the class falls out, we do not have compulsory school attendance, and, and, on the contrary, we are obliged to educate this matter here in Sněmně in the following weeks we will approveit. I have a bill that has the approval of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, I have the support of my social democratic club, for which, of course, I thank, and I will try to convince colleagues across the political spectrum in the coming weeks to agree on this and in the coming weeks to vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u28	That was Mrs Valachová. Now I'll read the apology. Mr Patrik Nacher apologizes, between 16 and 21 pm, respectively. by the end of the day for working reasons. And now one point of fact, Mr Lukáš Bartoň. Please, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u29	Thank you. I would respond to my colleague Valachová. For the pirát, we can say that we support the long-term introduction of distance education even during standard periods, because we have long-term support for compulsory education, whatever form, both present and distance. At the same time, I would mention what I did not say in my speech. It is a pity that this proposal does not yet aim to introduce a combined form, for example, the same as Austria had in the spring. It would be one of the possible forms and one of the possibilities for our schools. Otherwise, I very much welcome the proposal made here to treat a family member. Any parent whose child is under 10 years of age and is under obligation should be entitled to the treatment of a family member under the duty of distance education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u30	Now I'm going to read one apology. Mr Rakušan apologizes from 14:00 to the end of the day for reasons of work. And now Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková gets the floor, and Mrs Tereza Hyťhová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u31	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would first of all like to confirm and add to what my fellow Member Kateřina Valachová has said here. And maybe one of those pokey little twigs. Pirates didn't find America. I really, really don't. The bill we have on the table today was expected for distance education by the school public. And we were already at the beginning of the whole situation when schools were closed down, talking about the need to create conditions if we are to find a distance education system here. The bill imposes obligations on schools, imposes obligations on pupils and students. And if the State imposes obligations, it must also create conditions for it. So I am very and very glad that our words have come up and that the government has decided that the funds to provide ICT equipment will be spent. I stress this, but I remind you that it is also necessary to ensure that those who work with it have access to data. We know that during that period of school closure in the first half of the year, that teachers often bailed out their own. Nobody paid them off, depending on the access of schools or individual founders. But that obligation is imposed at this point in time by the state, so it is necessary for the state to bail out these things financially. The second thing Kateřina Valachová spoke about is drapes for teachers or respirators for teachers. I'm not gonna say it again, I just remembered on that occasion, it was a long time ago, and it was in a different regime, but there was a situation where teachers were getting chalk and bringing chalk to school so they could teach at all. I think that we are no longer and will not be at that time, and the protective aids are the right of the employee and the employer's obligation to provide, according to the Labour Code, so I believe that this will also be ensured for the reasons that Kateřina Valachová has already mentioned. But the thing that made me sign up for a word is really infirmary. I am sorry, I am very sorry that there has not been a coalition agreement and that, at the same time as the draft law on distance education, we do not have an amendment on the table, which was prepared, or a separate bill, amendment, proposal to amend the infirmary. Again, at this point, this is a nine-day entitlement scheme, 16 days for a single parent, and 60 per cent of the daily basis of assessment. If the quarantine is supposed to be ten days, it's still colliding for at least one day. The second thing is whether really those schools or classes would be closed only for mandatory quarantine periods and whether it would be prolonged. Our proposal and our idea as a social democracy is that the deadline should indeed be equal to the time that the child must be at home, must be quarantined, virtually. for which it is subject to distance education. I see another problem there, and it's definitely for debate, and I think it should be the release of the infirmary at the child's age limit. At this point, it's up to ten years old. However, we in the Health Committee have proposed a 13-year age limit for a quarantine infirmary. Those thirteen years correspond roughly to when the child is capable and can be home alone for some time without any supervision, without the presence of an adult. Over 13 years old, we all know children are better off home alone than when their mother or father or grandparents are sitting over them. Our infirmary proposal will be directed towards these two things. And I believe that we will agree to bring it forward as soon as possible, whether as a separate amendment, so that it will start to apply as quickly as possible, or that we will very quickly include the proposal for the regulation of a long-term infirmary, which we have already presented here in the House as a social democracy, lies here for a while and it is also a matter that is needed and my bond, it would not be an sticker, it would be completely consistent within the framework of the amendment of the law and the area that the amendment of the law treats. [[14.30 hours]] Finally, I would like to thank the Minister once again for having done so, the bill was able to put it in the House so quickly that we could make it to the beginning of the school year. I believe that I believe his promises that the methodological instruction, the decree will and will be discussed with all relevant actors so that practice can really help. And that is our commitment as Social Democrats, that we will be very involved in this. I would also like to thank all the schoolchildren, and now I think to all the teachers, to those who manage schools, to all the directors, to the staff of the school facilities, for being able to respond quite quickly to the situation that no one had anticipated. Of course, a great thank you also to parents and all those affected by the school system. And since we are before the beginning of the school year, I also wish everyone a lot of health, a lot of strength and a successful school year. I believe we can do this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u32	Now, in fact, Mrs Olga Richterová will speak, and since I only have one factual point, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová is still prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u33	I would simply like to respond in fact to the honourable Member's words that this linking the obligation to provide distance education with the infirmary is no discovery of America. It is precisely because it is not a discovery of America, but a fact that is clearly mandatory for every parent of the children - I cannot say that it surprises me, but upsets and incredibly leaves no calmness to the fact that there is no coalition agreement on the fact that for all those groups that will need it, it will be secured by the infirmary. That's one thing. I would also like to stress, Madame said - I believe that we will agree on coalition. I don't believe that as an opposition MP for the pirát. I'd like clear words from the Minister here. And it didn't come out perfectly clear that the decree was going to be dealt with. All of this would like a comment from the Minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u34	Mrs Hyťhová Hyťhová will now appear, Mr Marek Výborný will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u35	Thank you for your word. I would also like to comment on this. I'm gonna go back to the debate a little bit, not to the infirmary, but specifically to the distance education. I'm not sure it's appropriate for all the problems that are gradually happening, just things that we don't count on to be done by law. If anything happens, we'll make a new law, a new law, we'll have 20,000 laws here in no time. I'm not sure that's the way we should go, but okay. On the one hand, it is fine and it is great that money goes to education, I say that in the long term it is necessary to put more money into education, in materials, teachers etc., but on the other hand I am not sure if this money will be spent well. I am interested in the opinion of the Ministry of Health and Minister Plaga, what is the risk of infection in small children, such as in the first degree or in the second degree, simply in primary school. If there really is such a big risk that we should prefer distance classes. Because I'm a supporter of the fact that education isn't only important for children, but the important thing is that they go to that school, they have that social contact, both the teacher - the pupil, and actually they have friends there, and the fact that the teacher is testing them, they have to go there, there is some obligation. I am not sure when my colleague Bartoň spoke here that he would have introduced, or that he would not have resisted distance teaching even when there is no pandemic - I am a proponent, and I speak also for the Tricolor movement, that it is probably not entirely appropriate. Because those kids should just go to school, we all went to school, and I think that's how it should be. So I'd still like to ask the Minister if they have any results or any surveys, what is the risk of transmission, or if there has been any transmission in such small children. In short, any number or information he might be able to give us here. I would still like to see the Minister, but I would like to thank him for sending the manual to the schools a few days ago, which should have been by 31 August, of course I have not read it in detail yet, but there are things I do not agree with, but I believe that Mr Plaga would like to work them out in some way in the future. There are certainly Members, not only I, who will be happy to help him with this, and I believe that they will appreciate it and communicate with both schools and Members. So that's what I wanted to say for us, that that's our goal, or we want the kids to go to school, and if there's a huge risk, which isn't my opinion, I'd like to know some numbers, and then we'll see. I don't think it'd be good to make up the law here again, since we don't have any groundwork or anything. So thank you, Minister, for your answer in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u36	I will now ask Mr Marek Výborný to speak, and he will prepare himself as the last Member of Mr František Kopřiva. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u37	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, colleagues, I would like to make a few comments on the subject and on distance education. Of course we are in agreement, and it was already said here before me by colleague Jiří Mihola, that what started out or, respectively, what went on a little outside the law in the spring, it is good to anchor in the law. For my colleague Hyťhová, I am simply reminding you that we do not have a new law here, but a amendment to the school law, and that is where the possible distance forms of teaching at the level of primary schools are actually anchored today. So we have pointed this out during the spring months and we welcome the efforts of the Ministry of Education and Government to anchor this in the law. However, I am here in agreement with the words that have been said here that it is normal to go to school and that the distance form of education should actually remain an extraordinary form, an extraordinary variant for emergencies. And it's a good thing that these emergency situations...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u38	Now, I would like to ask you to remain calm in the Chamber so that the Member can speak calmly. One more time, please, calm down. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u39	And it's a good thing when we're ready for emergency situations. So it's a good thing in that sense that the amendment to the school law is being made. I also believe that this is more of a semi-finished product and that we are responding here to the situation that has arisen, and it would be more appropriate to limit this adjustment to the school year 2020/2021, and the Ministry, which is the government, should prepare a comprehensive solution, it was mentioned here by my colleague Kateřina Valachová, a comprehensive solution to the distance form of education. And not only in elementary schools, but also to incorporate the forms that school law allows today, that is, secondary school, or also interest education, because from my children's own experience, our children can say that pet education, for example, took place in primary art schools, and very successfully, distance learning online. So all of these things should be incorporated into a separate regulation that would address all possible situations in the future, where there may be some pandemic threat, possibly the closure of schools, etc. But what I would like to call very problematic, very problematic, is the passage that de facto gives the Ministry of Education a blank cheque to deal with both the admission procedure and the termination of education in secondary schools, whether in the form of a graduation exam, final exams or discharge. [[14.40 hours]] I am actually convinced of this - and we can discuss the possibility that, for example, the Ministry should and could take action by this decree. But those fundamental things, for example, relating to the number of dates of the single entrance exam, and there are other things that affect forms afterwards, such as the limitation of the possibility of a graduation exam in any of today's possible forms, and so on - it really should not take the form of a generally binding... or regulation, a measure of a general nature, that is, by decree of the Ministry, but there should be some possibility of a wider public debate. And where else should the wider public debate take place than in the Czech Parliament? Not only between Members and the Education Committee, but also with the professional public, of course. So I would strongly recommend here to support the amendments tabled by Mr... or the one tabled by Mr Baxa here, because this really should remain reserved for the standard legislative process. And what I want to stress is, there's no danger here, and I think we've all checked here, there's no danger of delay. Extraordinary things can be dealt with today by the government in an extraordinary form, and Parliament, the Chamber of Deputies has made it clear that it is able to meet in the order of hours - in the end, we are sitting here in the order of hours - and we are actually taking decisions at two o'clock in the morning. So, please, let us consider whether we are not going beyond what is really needed by this measure introduced into this amendment to the school law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u40	Now I have two factual points here. Mr Václav Klaus will be the first to speak and Mrs Tereza Hyťhová will be prepared. All right, Member, your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u41	Hello. To discuss the number of laws. As a man of practice, I'll tell you that I've been headmaster for about ten years, and there was no school code. Today we have three hundred-page, follow-up decrees, law on pedagogical workers, and now again, because someone likes to make legislative proposals, we bring more pasquil, 17 pages something about some distance. In reality, we've seen this epidemic before, teachers have taught distance, some haven't taught, no law will change that. Do we also have a number of families like this - as is politely said? - socially weaker people who have been teaching distance for several years and no OSPOD or social services will do anything about it. So this law is completely unnecessary for us. And I'm gonna say one more thing, that's why I volunteered. I have noticed such extremist leftist circles both international and Czech, as they already release such ones as leaflets "pandemia is an opportunity for a global change in education." This means destroying the student - teacher relationship, ensuring that children do not have to go to school. And it's another blow to the education that we know, to which this country has become rich, and now it's not by chance here, the pirát want to make it work, this law, it's not enough for them, and you're doing it to them the kind of secretive guy who brings it in and opens the door. So we will not support this law for the Tricolor movement. And I would urge us to try very hard not to do anything to start writing the law immediately. Those schools can handle it. The part where the Ministry gives itself the right to make decisions, on the contrary, I would support that. I think we don't always have to talk about whether the exams are April 12th or the 13th. The minister can handle that. We're supposed to be checking on the minister. But to this law, still in a state of legislative emergency, I have a really great Abstand, as the Němec would say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u42	Next, Mrs Tereza HyHyťhová will make a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u43	I wanted to add some more, he already said it to Mr. Václav Klaus. But I wanted to ask the Minister how or if he had a plan to enforce his attendance. If they have to be acquiescences. Because we know - I am from the Ústí Region, therefore I say this as my personal experience - that some parents, some children, pupils simply don't go to that school, and even though they have hundreds of unforgivable hours, they just don't go to that school. There's a way to deal with it. It's a long-term process that doesn't actually solve in the finals. So I wanted to ask you how this is going to take place in this distance teaching because I'm interested. And my opinion is that the ministry can't in any way get these kids to go to school or be online. And so on. So if you're ready like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u44	Mr Ondřej Profant will now be the last to speak in the general debate. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u45	Dear colleagues, dear citizens, I want to talk a little bit more about education. Because this proposal is addressed by the Ministry only by what is relevant to the Ministry. It's not about what's so important to those schools, it's about the Ministry. This is where I address the Minister. I understand you're trying to create enough room for manoeuvre for schools. However, I have the overwhelming impression that your ministry has long been doing everything in its power to take all the responsibility out of itself. Moreover, communication of proposed measures with the professional public and opposition has unfortunately been selective so far. It is quite clear that risks arise in relation to the covid situation, which may have a long-term impact on the quality of our education. As regards published manuals, it is certainly appropriate to appreciate that, as part of their preparation, efforts were made to respond to the problems faced by schools in the spring. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that the current version of the manual focuses more on the description of routines and does not address certain issues that can be considered key. Let me give you a specific example. If there is a strong local outbreak, it is likely that the school will not be able to provide education by its own means. All the more so if the entire school choir, for example, ends up in quarantine. What are we gonna do at this point? Is the Ministry ready to help such a region, such a place? I highly doubt that, in fact... the founder will have to deal with this situation. It's just questions that bother us, that bother our parents, that bother those teachers, and they're unanswered. Next topic. I've learned that the Ministry is shutting down educational Olympics and similar competitions. It allows the Olympics organized by other subjects, but it doesn't pay for them. I would like to point out here that by doing this, we are destroying the top education of the most talented pupils and students, crashing activities aimed at supporting gifted students, and thereby only making the situation worse. And the last thing that bothers me and I want to talk about here are the available educational resources. The problem is digital learning materials, the so-called DUM. It is essential that they have such teaching material in high quality. However, once again it is the cinderella of your resort. At the same time, modern digitally and remotely cannot be taught according to analog textbooks loaded with unnecessary copyright. Unfortunately, I have to ask these questions here because your ministry hasn't said much in particular yet, and we have half of August. I'll allow myself to sum up the questions. Are you ready to take responsibility for schools that get into a situation that they won't be able to solve on their own, such as local outbursts? Do you really want to fight the educational Olympics and similar competitions? Are you planning to focus more on supporting the digital learning materials, the houses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u46	And now, in the general debate, I have Mr František Vácha. So far, this is the last application for a general debate. Well, Mr. Ambassador, you have virtually unlimited space. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I don't know if we voted for five minutes, but... [[- No.]] No, they didn't. [[The President: The vote was cast, but it did not pass.]] Do I really have unlimited space? However, I will be very short. I'd like to say the club's position for TOP 09. We'll support the government's bill amendment, the school bill. I think spring experience has shown that such a law, although, of course, I agree that the fewer laws, perhaps the better that we need this law, because there were schools that taught distanceably, but there were individuals, teachers and parents who turned to me when teachers refused to teach or taught at least. And, of course, there were children who refused to attend distance lessons. So I think this bill, the amendment to the law, is necessary. I think it's enough as well. I agree that it might be good to have the accompanying materials, as the Ministry says distance teaching should look like. I understand that there is an amendment that wants to limit the length of the amendment to one year. I don't think it's entirely appropriate, because it's going to be an election year, and I'm afraid it might happen that we won't be able to get to the point if the Ministry prepares enough materials, that we'll only get to cancel the annual distance. [[14.50 hours]] So we will not support this amendment, but, of course, we will support any accompanying resolution, which will call on the Ministry to prepare the materials or some manual on how to teach distance. Because if you look at the Ministry's website today, I was looking at it, so I felt like if I was a teacher, I probably wouldn't be able to do something meaningful about it, and I'd probably be able to figure out how the director would advise me, which I think is probably the right way to do, because I think we should give those directors the authority and trust to prepare that distance teaching according to the best of consciousness and conscience. That's all for TOP 09. We will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u48	I have one more factual point here, Mr Marek Výborný, so far the last request for a speech in the general debate. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u49	Thank you for the floor. I'm only going to take a brief response. It's reappearing here. There is talk of manuals, but it is also not mentioned that all directors have received this material, which is from the Czech School Inspectorate, which I consider to be very well processed. There, the directors have a specific recommendation on how to de facto incorporate into the way of education in the 2020/2021 school year the experience and what schools, pupils and directors have been through in the second half of the last school year. So I think it's very important when they talk about the manuals. Of course, the manual - and I thank the Ministry of Education for it - is well structured, yes, clearly written. I'm a little sorry that there are some measures that have apparently been smuggled in from the Ministry of Health and Hygiene and which, in my opinion, all sane people at the Ministry of Education, including the Minister, can't trust, or know that the things that are there today are unrealized. No school group in the Czech Republic can be homogeneous. Or show me if there's any kind of school group where you can maintain homogenity in the 100% sense of the word. I don't think I can. So these are things that would be good not to put there, because giving recommendations that I know in advance are unrealistic is wrong in my opinion, and it will cause the most chaos. But those are the details we can deal with. I would also like to join the plea to follow the implementing decree, if approved, which will create a handwook for schools in case they have to go somewhere, I hope it doesn't happen, or if, so locally, there will be a distance form of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u50	I will now look around the hall to see if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. No one... The final words will still be. But you're still interested in the general debate? And the Minister also in the general debate? So still in the general debate. And, Minister, you too in the general debate. I guess so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u51	Indeed, Mr President, very briefly. I would like to thank everyone for the wide discussion that was here. I'm just a little sorry that after a very broad discussion that was not very much about this law, we consider the speeches of fellow Members to be more like such an exhibition. Perhaps if we went a half step further, we would ask the Minister and the Ministry of Education for a manual - by the way, the manuals here are not incorporated into the amendment of the law - which should determine how they accompany their girls from the dance boys and how they use some protective equipment, such as drapes, gloves and gels. I mean, of course, hand sanitizer gels. We believe that the teaching public has been waiting for this law for some time. We're not saying it's not too late. It is at the right moment because the school year has not started, but it will be important for us that there is currently financial security of regional education for the acquisition of technical equipment for schools, so that teachers in schools are able to carry out online teaching since the beginning of the school year 2020/2021. Finally, the KSČM proposal for the promotion of regional education was CZK 300 million and I assume that the increase will also be from the Ministry of Education so that these funds will be in regional education. [[unintelligible]] That's why I can say for our club that we will support the government proposal. We will not support Mr Martin Baxa's proposal, nor Mr Lukáš's colleague... Bartona, I'm sorry, because we don't identify with them. We do not think it is good for this general law to apply only for a year, and we think that if local problems occur, for example only in the part of North Moravian, South Moravian or other regions, to introduce distance teaching, we do not think that the Ministry of Education has to decide on terms of math or admission procedures, but we have the Ministry of Education to do so. And that's what we believe in the Minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u52	And now I'm just gonna ask. Madame, you were originally on a factual basis, but you didn't. So you don't want factual? Then you're second, because with priority rights, the Minister goes. In front of you. If only for de facto, first, but now you're... Now, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u53	Thank you for the floor. In the previous debate in the general debate, there have been a number of suggestions that I would like to respond to in relation to, on the one hand, the amendments. Of course, many of these things, as education is a complex issue, were not related to the law presented, but to the matters related to it, the farther away from it. Still. I'll start from the back. I would like to congratulate Members Excellent for the fact that he submitted manuals and materials to the Ministry of Education, which went to the directors until the end, because there is the report of the Czech School Inspectorate. So I am very glad that we have sent one complete material, including the optics of the Czech School Inspectorate. It is a complex material, there are, of course, the measures to be taken by schools, and there are also recommendations for distance learning, that is the donkey bridge for this law that we are presenting. This is a follow-up to Mr. Vácha. Maybe on the website of the Ministry of Education, on those where all the methodologies are, the laws, it's inconspicuous. But what we started during the covid crisis and what works is web nadalku.msmt.cz, where the rules of online education and other references were just in place to those online tools and methodologies as well as educational materials that are usable. Furthermore, we intend to work with this content. In essence, we would very much like this method of support for teachers from the central level, i.e. the Ministry of Education, to continue using European projects. To Mr. Klaus. Yes, of course I understand the legislative austerity that you're confessing, but in this case, the covideo crisis has made it clear that the law didn't do it in that fight. After all, the fact that I am standing before you today is not only that we are aware, and I have announced this, the lack of legislative regulation in this area. On the other hand, some directors said: There is a problem, we cannot force those pupils to be distanced. Moreover, there are two House resolutions that call for this. That is, when I stand before you today to fulfill, among other things, the resolution of you as the Chamber of Deputies, on which you have agreed and approved it, I do not know why I should be ashamed to present it. I think it's appropriate, it's not a swaddle of legislation, it's an austerity proposal, and it really only deals with the three situations I've described. That means it doesn't mess up legislation with any ballast. As for the plan - Mrs Hyťhová asked about the apology plan. Very simple. If we put attendance and distance education on the same footing, it is quite logical that there is a similar regime. I told the committee this morning, I'll do it again in plenary. In case the school does not provide distance education, there is an institute mentioned by the Czech School Inspectorate, which will see how the school approaches it. On the other hand, if the conditions are set and not from objective obstacles, but for some other reason, they are fulfilled by the family, yes, it is appropriate to deal with this as standardly as when the child avoids presentation education. Attention, at this point, we are really talking about ten-day, fourteen-day quarantine measures, not the area shutdown that occurred in the spring of this year, which I very much hope is good news. [[15.00 hours]] What was said here as a big appeal in relation to this law and some as a condition of its approval. I can, of course, promise, and I am so glad that methodical material - I am not saying that it will have the nature of a decree that would have to be authorised - which goes into those rules of distance education, defining the standard, we are counting on this material. So I can promise the pirát that this methodical material will be created. Likewise, I think the comment came from social democracy. We're counting on it. Of course, the rules of distance education will be incorporated when you are provided with methodological material. If there has been criticism and some appeal to the temporary nature of this measure, I repeat, this measure is intended to be an emergency measure, but not only for the covid crisis, but for various other types of restrictions, emergency conditions, emergency measures by the Ministry of Health, the intervention of regional hygiene. So once again I declare at the invitation, but I have also done so in some interviews, of course as regards presentation and distance teaching and the right ratio and mix and forms, so we are preparing as the Ministry of Testing and it makes no sense to write there at this time, or it has been blamed that it does not address the role of distance education in our education system. It is fair, and it is done in the education system in all fundamental matters, to use experimental verification, if possible, and to start experimental verification from the second half of this school year, and to test various forms of distance education at different levels of schools, with the result that if there are any conclusions, as it should be, from experimental verification, if it is necessary to codify them, it will be codified. So we'll keep working on it. I think even Mrs GajdůGajdůšková called for me to do so. So we're gonna keep working on it, this isn't the final version. What's the final version or the final proposal, so it's the adjustment for the emergencies. I think it's appropriate, and here I'm going to try to explain why it makes sense to adjust the measures of a general nature. Maybe I can convince my ODS colleagues. Because the Slovak model - which some of you therefore also called for: Minister, decide, which I could not do in the spring, it had to be the law - does not have the insurance that it has de facto the nature of an administrative act and the administrative act is verifiable and, of course, also judicially countervailable. It is not self-indulgence or the favour of the Minister or the Minister of Education for the future. That means this is a certain insurance policy. The fact that the Minister of Education should have this competence turned out in the spring, and in relation to the way the text is designed, I am just pointing out, yes, if it were about a looming measure, then in the spring we showed that in a legislative state of emergency, together, the coalition and the opposition, we could catch up with an emergency law that quickly applies. But I note that here we are talking about the possibilities of this arrangement, even in the case of local emergency conditions or regional health station measures, that is to say, the reason is that if it were to concern - now I will invent - three counties, it probably does not make sense to go to the House as law, and it is in my opinion - or should it be, and therefore I am giving the proposal - in the competence of the Minister or the Minister of Education, with the fact that he will, of course, compose accounts, and as I have said, either he can, of course, attack it classically judicially, but without a doubt, he will compose the accounts of every Minister of Education and the Minister of Education in the House subsequently, that is, the insurance against arbitraryness of the Ministry is contained here. With regard to remote education, other finances, we were talking here, about three contributions said that the injection of 1.3 billion is good - I note that it exceeds a billion crowns what the House adopted in the Ministry of Education's budget by the amendment - and now it comes from the government budget reserve, even in some comments from opposition parties, it was that it should be a billion, it is 1.3 billion to strengthen, but of course, if, and ideally using the means that are now coming from the EU from the recovery fund, the possibility of jumping to strengthen the condition of our education system will prove to be. That is, if there was an appeal to further strengthen digitization and other things, so if those resources appear, as they are now appearing, as the Ministry of Education will, of course, strive for them. But we will strive to make meaningful use of them. Again, the primary role is the founders. I don't want it to look like - and it sometimes seems like - that actually a nice ministry, what are you gonna do with all this? When we have chosen a reform of public administration here, the founding powers of primary schools are municipalities, central regions, it is logical, and there is money coming from the budgetary determination of taxes, it is quite logical that we each have a role to play in this system. And here I appeal to you for nothing, but I am making it public in the diaper, when we are adding money and holding money for the development of schools, so the reports that come to me that in some municipalities the municipalities are starting to withdraw operational funds to schools are bad news for me and I will deal in this spirit with the Association of Local Authorities and the SMO of the Czech Republic, because it does not make sense for the state to enter and give additional resources to education, so that they may be released by someone else. I firmly believe that these are individual excesses of municipalities and that together and at the level of municipalities, we seriously think that education is an investment in the future and a priority. If there's been a debate here that it would be good to deal with the infirmary, I point out, it's a school bill. Yes, of course, the infirmary debate is a legitimate debate, but it is a legitimate debate that is primarily to be conducted with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. This law is in the gesture of the Ministry of Education, and I am convinced that the issue we have been called upon to solve is well, comprehensively and not with some unnecessary ballast, yet with the degree of certainty that gives stability to legislation and fills the vacuum that was there. Mrs Hyťhová asked about the risk of being infected in schools, and she justified it by the fact that distance teaching was not the appropriate one. I quote, this law doesn't say let's go to distance classes. This testing of what distance learning ratio is supposed to be or might be part of that mix in the education system in the future, that's experimental verification. At this point, we're talking that if there's evidence or suspicion of the covid and county sanitation station in tracking the contact and monitoring the epidemiological situation in the epidemiological investigation, they'll find that there's a problem at the school, they're ordering quarantine. That means, it's not a diversion from attendance to distance teaching, and it's just a debate about quarantine measures and that distance teaching makes sense at the moment. It means, it's not about the risk of infection, it's that when it turns out that the covid is there, the quarantine starts, and at that point, the law makes a lot of sense to me. The last debate that was there in terms of teacher's protective equipment. So, of course, teachers, and they're not alone, are or some may fall into risk groups, even though the definition of risk groups has changed. Of course, he tried to provide protective equipment at the time of spring in every way possible. Now the state's material reserves have some reserve at their disposal, but it is appropriate for the schools to have it, and the schools, from their operational means at their disposal, also acquire it, and a number of directors say that they have not only bought drapes for teachers, but also a certain reserve in case the student loses the drape or destroys the drape or forgets it. So much for the points that relate to this novel. Mrs Richterová asked how the state would support the parents. Again - the 1.3 billion crowns that go there are calculated so that schools can create a lending fund and a reserve for lending ICT funds, software to pupils and teaching programs to pupils directly into families. And to remind her that I would promise a methodology or a decree here, I said that I would promise the creation of a methodology as such. The last point was to update the manuals. Of course, if there are new facts, we will be in touch and communicating new facts with schools. If the emergency measures of the Ministry of Health change, we will also communicate in relation to schools. So much for the school bill and the things that were said here. And the last point is outside this school law on Mr Profant. As for the information about not supporting competitions, yes, national rounds will not be announced, but the genesis is that the pirát sympathizer, whether he was an assistant or whoever I was talking to on the committee this morning, obviously has a problem with understanding the spoken word, or he did it on purpose, because our debate wasn't about not being able to do it. So I'm going to repeat the facts, which are more important than any impression that the colleague then gives on Twitter and even wrong. [[15.10 hours]] So this year's funding for the competitions will be paid out, with a cutback of 2021 is not expected. Of course, in the absence of a clear epidemiological situation, it does not make sense to announce from the central level that must be in place by the end of August. But once again, this note, which was meant how talented students are being robbed, I assure you that if the journey is not in the form of competitions, we will direct the money to the gifted pupils in a different form. And the last misinformation that emerged from the conversation with the sympathizer of the pirát, whether intentionally or misunderstood - I believe that this is the second option, i.e. mutual misunderstand - has to do with the fact that distance forms are, of course, not forbidden. It would be illogical. Period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u54	Mrs Olga Richterová will now speak in the general debate. I'll read the apology in the meantime. Mr Kupka apologizes from 14:00 until the end of the negotiations for working reasons. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u55	I would like to thank the Minister for stating a number of things, but this still follows. We at the Pirates Club support the overall basic idea that the legislative regulation on how distance education should work should be distance education, but without a decree, which is a sub-legal standard, but important, with legal weight, it is unacceptable for us. There is, of course, a better situation when the Minister promised a methodology than zero. It's better if there's anything. But such a law, such a regulation requires a decree. Why? Because parents don't care exactly which one is the matter of the Ministry of Education, they don't care that apologies are already solved and will be applied by analogy. Parents are interested in how you, Minister, as a member of the coalition government with the ČSSD, have agreed to deal with the most pressing things that parents will worry about. We are in a situation where, as a government, you want to impose a new great duty on people, an obligation to provide access to distance education, that is, that the child is at home in quarantine, and I, as a parent, have to do something about it. And in this situation, you have not yet agreed on the infirmary for that huge group of tradesmen and people on the bargains, who just don't have a real way of doing it right now. They are not entitled at all, even if they pay sick leave. I just want to reiterate that this is a situation where you ask for the confidence that this law will work somehow well, but you will not even give us, as representatives elected by citizens, a framework view of how you, as a government, agreed on this crucial condition for the law to work in practice. So if I sum it up, if I leave aside a little understatement, where it's a shame that, for example, the church elementary schools didn't get any funds for IT equipment at all, or if it's a shame that there's no higher need for certain localities for computer equipment, that it's just according to teachers, then this could go away, it's not so crucial. But the fact that you're not like the government to agree on a key condition so the law can work, the fact that the decree has not been promised means that you just give your parents a duty, you throw responsibility at your parents, and then you're not even agreed to make it work. I'm sorry, we can't support this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u56	Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Tereza Hyťhová and then with priority right, the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u57	Thank you for the floor. I don't want to delay, just to the minister. I'd like to turn to his words. I didn't say that distance form wasn't appropriate. I said, and I'm afraid of that day, and I don't want to live to see the kids sitting at home, and now you know, you realize that the kids are often at home, they don't come out, behind me, when I was little, not that I was old, but when I was little, we went out, today it's not so, so I just worry about it and I don't want the kids to sit at home and learn at home. Children are to go to school regularly and maintain social contact. So just for an explanation. And I'm certainly not in favour of the way you mentioned it here, so that, as you said, it would be in common practice in the future - distance learning. I don't think that's the way we should go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u58	Now with priority right - moment - Zbyněk Stanjura. Yes, with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u59	I didn't beat anyone, but okay, with priority rights. We've heard the Minister's 20-minute self-respect here. First of all, I believe that if it weren't for the opposition to want people to vote out of quarantine, we wouldn't have come here today to this law. Nothing would have happened either, Minister. Nothing would happen. And I would expect the Minister of Education to do everything we can to keep schools from closing, classes or schools. But the government liked the big picture. I see the Minister of Health there, who showed us the traffic light last week, when apart from two counties everything is great, we're handling everything, no risk - bang him, flat measures. And you're telling us here, and we're supposed to believe that you're not considering horizontal measures in the field of education. I just don't believe it. You said it would only be required locally if I listened to you quite well. I don't think you're supposed to have a new authority. The Minister of Education is truly mistaken when he says that he is responsible to the Chamber of Deputies. Can you tell me how, Minister? It is in some legislatures that, for example, the House can voice distrust on a particular minister. It is not really in the Czech constitutional system. So you, as a person or any individual minister, are not responsible to the Chamber of Deputies, only the government as a whole. That's a big difference. I don't know why you want to usurp another authority. I don't understand at all. I think that's wrong. And that amendment is really reasonable. I think if it were the other way around and we had benches, government and opposition replaced, you would also protest against it, against further strengthening executive power without Parliament's will. Try to look at it without the chair you're sitting on specifically, and I think we have to come to the same conclusion that it's not good. It really is not a good thing to entrust such a new competence to any minister. And it's not personal to you. It is simply, in my opinion, a denial of the right of legislative power in favour of executive power. And don't be surprised that we have made a very slight amendment against which you are hand-in-hand, or a word with the representatives of the KSČM against. But we think it's really not good. And I would expect you to say, first, that you will do everything you can to make the school run in the standard way. [[A voice from the diaper.]] I'm not joining. But the confusion? The idea of having the baby, I would say, a very detailed manual, when it will have the drape or not. I saw the helpless Minister of Health when he was supposed to answer why there might be no drapes in the party and in the hallway. Explain that to me. I don't understand it at all as a layman. If I take the argument that one class is a closed collective, that's fine, but then everyone comes running up there in the glee club. So I'm gonna put that drape in that hallway from II.A., and when I open the door to the crew and meet my colleague from II.B., II.C. and I.A., I can take that drape off. And that's called smart, I don't know what. There's nothing clever about it. It's just a mess. But as we learned today, the Minister of Health has declared and reminded citizens that the fine for not wearing a drape is up to 3 million. What's the light for, Minister? What's the light for? I'm from the district where there was a white light, and I had to wear a drape all the time. And imagine, when I was driving a Pendoline from Ostrava to Prague, thanks to the clever government, I had a duty to put on a drape in Ostrava-Svinov, the first stop is in Olomouc, but once we crossed the border of the region, we could take off the drapes. That's smart, isn't it? Not a lot of people would think of that. No one came in, nobody got out, but for the first 30 minutes you have a drape, and then for the next 15 minutes, if there is no delay, some lockout, you don't have a drape to Olomouc anymore, and from Olomouc, hurrah with the same passengers without a drape. It's called - well, it's definitely not smart. I'm not looking for any adjectives. So don't blame our outrage. That's an understatement. Who here in June was suffocating that there wouldn't be any surface measures? Wasn't that your Prime Minister? What did you declare today, yesterday, the day before yesterday? New area measures. I don't know, we should get a haircut by the end of August, so we won't be in the same problem in September or October as in April and May, and I don't know everything. So tell us what else I have until August 31st, when according to your traffic light, except for two counties, everything's great. It's not my traffic light, it's not the opposition traffic light, it's your traffic light. You yourself will say that the county hygienist in my region did not proceed correctly, so I will read the hundreds of thousands of dollars' reward. That's great. Really. There was no increased number of infected people in our district, but since we are in the Moravian-Silesian Region and in Karvina drapes are mandatory, it also fell to Opava. And that's how it's done. A colleague of mine, Mrs Němcová, wrote a rather funny tweet that we could use either a smart quarantine or a smart government. Unfortunately, we don't have either. And that's a big problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u60	Now a point of fact, Mr Václav Klaus. And in Mr Profant's case, it's a general matter? So we will take Mr Klaus in action and then Mr Profant will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u61	Hello. I don't think we need to talk about the fact that there is no clever quarantine, that's a simple fact. That was the political floscule, which is tens in our space. If people don't mind, I don't understand, but I guess that's the way the world is. I wanted to say one more thing about the law that I consider to be completely unnecessary - I also voted against discussing it in a legislative emergency, because there is no reason for it - and that is that he is somehow dealing with compulsory domestic distance teaching. And I want to tell you that these laws are supposed to correspond to the reality of the world. We had a lot of fun here and met when we defended so the watermen could have a beer. The people I agreed with, the MPs, they said, "They're gonna put it on that rubber boat anyway, everybody does it! What are we talking about here? Why are we killing ourselves here in the House? It's pointless. And now I'm going to school. When I was a kid or a young man at high school, my Professor Fork, my heartfelt greeting, was an old school professor who didn't accept any note cards. I don't care if your mother signed it, the class is unforgivable, it's late, I don't admit it or anything. Everyone went to school and there was a situation like this. No teacher will do it now. Of course, that scares all the lawyers and everything that they eat him, so any note is 99.9 percent of the schools recognized. And now we're dealing halfway through this law, how are we going to force children into distance teaching? I can't imagine how it's gonna be controlled and recognized and not recognized by who did what. So it's a really redundant law, and it opens Overtonův's window to what I was talking about, the extreme left, the total change in the way of education, the total change in society. That's what some people look forward to. It scares me. So we will be against the law with or without all the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u62	Mr Profant will now appear. Please, you have the floor. It is the last application I have for the general debate so far. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u63	I thank the Minister for his answers. But he's obviously not very happy to have so many questions. But as I said in my speech, it's because of how the materials are preordered and how selectively the Ministry communicates. And I didn't get the answer to my third question, and that's digital teaching materials. I think it's very important. If we're going to teach at a digital age, if the current reality is that we're going to have distance teaching, which we're obviously going to have, I guess there's gonna be a majority who's going to vote for it, but we have to be prepared for that kind of teaching. And it's not just about buying tools. This is about leading it methodically and having quality materials that will be useful for this way of teaching. And that's what the D.O.D. has to work on, and he can't just let it go. He's got some grants coming from, but that's not enough. We have to completely restructure this area, buy freely available materials that will be available for free use. And we have to introduce teachers to that, we have to learn to produce it ourselves in the long run, otherwise distance learning is unsustainable. And if the Minister or the Ministry has a problem with the development of digital teaching materials, we will be happy to help, Minister. Because it really needs to be done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u64	I will look around the hall to see if there is any interest in speaking in the general debate. In the meantime, if anyone changes their mind, I'll read an apology. Mr Petr Beitl apologizes today from 16 o'clock for family reasons. So I am ending the general debate and I am now asking whether there is an interest in the final words. The rapporteur, Mr. Minister, are you interested? You're not interested. So I am opening up a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Martin Baxa has applied for the floor and Mr Lukáš Bartoň will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u65	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to sign up in a detailed debate to House document 6077, which is my amendment which is proposed to launch in the proposed section 184a in paragraph 1. 4 in order to delete the text of point (b). Point (b) in order to be abolished without compensation, and therefore, in order to abolish the authorising order, the authorising decision for the Ministry of Education to amend the methods of final examinations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u66	I now call on Mr Lukáš Bartoň to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u67	Hello, Mr President. I would like to sign up for my amendment and my accompanying resolution. Both under House Document 6087. I have already mentioned in the general debate and justified it. The amendment concerns that the proposed bill should be valid only for the following school year. If the Ministry wants to continue this practice, it will prepare a better proposal. And the accompanying resolution is here that we ask the government to prepare that decree, which defines the parameters of distance education, what is the duty, when the legal obligation of distance education is fulfilled, under what circumstances, under which it is not. We see that there should be at least a legal standard, that the methodical material is not enough, although we are happy when at least he comes into existence. Anything that will define better distance education is welcome. And we assume that the moment this is a legal obligation, there will be disputes. There will be disputes between teachers and parents. There will be disputes between parents and OSPOD. And if we don't have this sub-legal standard, we can only take the expert opinion of one teacher, the other teacher, and we think that's wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u68	So still in the detailed debate, please, the rapporteur, Mr Pojezný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, since only two amendments have been tabled, Mr Baxa and Mr Bartoň - I apologize for not remembering his last name, although we have an excellent bass player in our group who has the same last name - I would like to propose that the third reading should follow up immediately on reading the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u70	I'm sure that's a legitimate suggestion, so I think we should vote on it to vote on it. So only at this point, so at point 2, we would continue with the third reading. So I will call the Members to the Chamber to decide whether the House agrees. An application for check-out, so I'll check you all out and sign up again with your voting cards. I'm going to repeat the motion once again. There is a rapporteur's proposal that we immediately continue to read at this point, as there are few amendments. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 14, 115 Members registered, 99 against 1. The motion was accepted. [[15.30 hours]] So I will end the detailed debate and ask now whether there is an interest in the final words after the detailed debate. The Minister and the rapporteur? There's no interest in final words. For the purposes of Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the following definitions shall apply: 7 of the Act on Rules of Procedure may follow in the short term the third reading of the draft law immediately after reading the second, I initiate the third reading of the submitted Government Bill and expect the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Body Member Ivo Pojezný to follow with me from the table of rapporteurs the debate that I hereby open. Anyone reporting for the debate? I don't see anybody, so if no one checks in, I'm done with the debate. Is there interest in final words? The Minister and the rapporteur? It's not. So now, please, Mr Ivo Pojezný's rapporteur, to introduce us to the voting procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u71	As I've already announced, the procedure will be very simple. First, we would vote on Martin Baxa's amendment, then we would vote on Lukáš Bartoň's amendment, and third, we would vote on the Government's amendment to the law, as presented to the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u72	There. So first, we're going to vote on the procedure you suggested. So I'm opening the vote. Whoever is for the proposed procedure, press the button... [[The rapporteur is reporting on the floor.]] I'm sorry, what? There's something else he wants to say -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u73	Yes, I forgot. In conclusion, we would vote on the accompanying resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u74	I would just like to ask you, Mr rapporteur, for the second time now, to speak only when I give you my word that this should be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You guys always jump in, and I can't even finish it. But I know you're involved, it's okay. [[Fun.]] I'll reset the vote. I'll end it. Now, once again, we will vote on whether we agree with the rapporteur's proposed procedure. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 16, 124 Members signed up, for 123, against none. The motion was accepted. Mr. Rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u75	So, first of all, we would vote on Mr Martin Baxa's amendment. Its amendment refers to the proposal proposing that the wording of the newly proposed Section 184a be modified so that point (b) is deleted from paragraph 4. This provision states that the Ministry of Education may determine measures of a different nature or conditions of admission to or termination of education if the procedure under this law is not possible or would cause significant difficulties. The proposer of the amendment considers that this authorisation clearly goes beyond what should be regulated by this special law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u76	I'm opening the vote... The Minister's position, I'm sorry. I'm ending the vote. I'm sorry. The Minister's position. Please. [[Minister: Ministry's opinion - opposition.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 18, 128 Members voted in favour of 32, against 41. The motion was denied. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u77	We would also vote on the amendment to Lukáš Bartoň. The amendment aims to limit the period of validity of the proposed amendment to the School Act by 31 August 2021, i.e. by the end of the school year 2020/2021. This is due to the fact that the government's proposed regulation does not address the issue of distance education comprehensively, but is only a temporary solution in the event of an exceptional situation in which distance teaching would have to be switched as a result of re-entry, albeit partial restrictions on the operation of schools.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u78	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 19 registered 128 Members, for 35, against 47. The motion was denied. So they're all amendments?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u79	Yes, they're all of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u80	So all the amendments have been voted on, so we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill, and I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, as amended, according to House press 972, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[Education law]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 20, 128 Members registered for 95, against 17. The bill has been adopted and I note that consent has been given to the bill. Now let me ask - are there any accompanying resolutions?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u81	Yes, there is the accompanying resolution by Mr Lukáš Bartoň, who proposes the following resolution: 1. It asks the Government for the preparation and processing of a follow-up implementing legislation specifying the definition of distance learning and the conditions for its implementation due to the newly imposed obligation of schools to provide distance training and the obligation of pupils to participate in such training, no later than three months after the application of the submitted government bill. 2. It entrusts the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports to discuss the following implementing legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u82	So I understand that we are voting on the resolution as a whole? [[Yes.]] So, the Minister's position?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u83	I didn't agree with the resolution, but I promised the methodology.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u84	So I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 21, 130 Members registered, for 45, against 3. The motion for a resolution has been rejected. Is that all...? [[Rapporteur: Everything.]] Well, then, I'm done negotiating this law. And now with priority rights, Zbyněk Stanjura. prosit, Chairman of the ODS Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u85	Thank you for the floor. I would like to propose, in accordance with Section 95a, that the House set out today for the third reading as well as the period from 15 to 19.00, so that we can discuss item number 4 of the approved programme.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u86	This is a possible procedural proposal, so I will engage, I will call the Members to the Chamber. So we know what we're going to vote on. The chairman of the ODS club suggests voting at third reading. I understand that this concerns point 4 to vote between 15.30 and 19.00. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 22, 130 Members registered, for 117, against none. The motion was accepted. And I will now hand over the meeting proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-003-002.u87	Good afternoon. Opening point 3 of today's meeting
