ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-008-071.u1	71. Proposal by Members of Stanislav Grospič, Hana Aulická Jírovcová and Pavel Kováčik on the issue of the law on legal aid and on the amendment of certain related laws (Law on Legal Assistance) /German press 152/ - first reading On 27 June 2018, after the opening words of the appellant and rapporteur, we suspended this item at the 16th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and adjourned it to a meeting to be opened in September 2018. I remind you that we received the Government's position as Parliamentary Press 152/1. The general debate has not been opened. I ask that Mr Stanislav Grospič and Mr Helena Válková take the position at the rapporteur's table for the plaintiff and rapporteur for the first reading. Now, if you... Yes, Mr Stanislav Grospič will speak for the plaintiff. And the rapporteur is also interested in speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-008-071.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the government, I would like to say that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia has tried several times to present a law on legal aid and to amend some related laws with this. We came from the fact that the right to legal aid is based directly on the constitutional order of the Czech Republic pursuant to Article 37 (1). The Court of Justice of the European Union shall be responsible for the implementation of this Agreement, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 2 (2) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, and shall have every right to legal assistance in proceedings before the courts, other public authorities or public authorities, from the beginning of the procedure. And then, in accordance with Rule 40 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, The third sentence of the Third Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms provides for the law in which the accused person has the right to free assistance in criminal proceedings. The legislation in force allows the provision of free legal aid in principle and is also implemented in practice. However, it is fragmented and not always uniform, and in its consequences it gives disproportionately wide discretion to the authorities that are in charge of providing free legal aid, defence. I could present here now a list of the standards contained in the explanatory memorandum of the proposal. I could also mention and talk about the Convention, the legal status of refugees, the international pact, the civil and political rights, the European Convention, the transmission of an application for legal aid. And I could also say and say that the proposed bill should just regulate the right to legal aid, free legal aid so-called, and to amend the standards set out in the explanatory memorandum which governs its regulation of legal aid so that its provisions do not conflict with the new laws and, in particular, with regard to the specificity of the criminal proceedings and the impact on ex-offo representatives in cases of the necessary defence. It is therefore true that this standard has been put forward in order to provide legal aid systematically in order to eliminate the disregard of the applicant's availability in order to lay down sufficient transparent rules, to help people, in particular, in a social emergency, and to introduce a certain central overview of the legal aid provided free of charge. It is also true that the government has given a negative opinion on this position. However, since the press, which has a serial number 152, has been in the Chamber of Deputies since 2018 and, in the meantime, there has been an adjustment which partly replaces the incompatible legislation, and I am thinking specifically of legislative technical shortcomings, which have been eliminated to some extent by the indirect amendment to the Law on judicial fees and the Act on administrative fees, and the application of an indirect amendment is then considered to be a legislative technique which, in this case, although indirectly, brings a certain system into this system of free legal assistance, and we are aware that it would require further laws, more extensive in fact, a more comprehensive amendment, so allow me, on behalf of all the petitioners, to request the withdrawal of the above proposed bill, because, given the time delay to which it was interrupted, and that, in the meantime, there has been adoption of other amendments which dealt the issue already in question, in the form in which it was prepared and submitted by the Communist party, it has partly met this requirement, in part lacks sense, and we are ready to respond to the new legal regulations, of course, to the new legal regulation, after the present revision of the Ministry. But at present, this amendment, from our point of view, no longer has any sense of negotiation. I suggest and request your consent to withdraw it on behalf of all the petitioners.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-008-071.u3	Now, please, let's get out of the car. [[Mrs Wark wants to get off.]] Madame, we have not yet had an open debate. So you want to get off now, even though the debate is not yet open. Okay. The rapporteur, too, has priority rights. [[At the same time, Mrs Černochová wants to speak.]] And the rapporteur also reported. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-008-071.u4	No. I just wanted to ask because there are a number of laws where I don't see the relevant ministers behind you, if the members of the government coalition can't make sure they get to work, so that we can continue with those points where we will require their presence logically.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-008-071.u5	I take it the Minister's back, or I'd have to call a break. The rapporteur, Helena Válková, will now speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-008-071.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I welcome what Mr Grospič here has just told us. Indeed, the proposal presented now lacks meaning, although there are some elements that we would of course welcome. I hope that he will prepare a new proposal, which will already reflect the updated legislation, as he has also said here. čili, as rapporteur, of course, I join in and welcome the withdrawal of this proposal in a no longer up-to-date form. Thank you. It's Parliamentary Press 152.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-008-071.u7	Since the plaintiff has proposed to withdraw that point, I think we're just gonna take this under advisement, and there's no point in discussing it anymore. The proposal will simply be withdrawn at first reading. I have not yet opened the debate, I have pointed out that the general debate has not yet been opened. Now we go to the position of the plaintiff, the petitioner, now there's been a performance with priority rights, which is anytime. So I would end this point because basically the plaintiff suggested that we withdraw it. This is according to § 86 para. Six without a vote, the plaintiff takes back. Let's move on to the next point. This is a point that has also been interrupted. This is about
