ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u1	73. Proposal by Members of Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Věra Kovářová, Vít Kaňkovský and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance, as amended /house print 162/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 162/1. I would like to ask Mrs Markéta Adamová Pekarová to present the proposal for the appellants. Yes, she's ready. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u2	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, when I asked for this point to be placed this week, it did not occur to me that it would come naturally to him, and I am, of course, glad for that, because it is a material that we have been trying to get into the program together with our colleagues for several months. In the end, all the bad for something good and the empty benches behind us helped to get to the point that concerns my favorite topic, namely short-time jobs. I would therefore like to turn your attention to this House press, i.e. the parliamentary amendment to Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance, as amended. This is a joint proposal which we have tabled together with colleagues from two other parties, respectively. movement, i.e. from KDU-ČSL and STAN, which exempts from the Act the provisions on the minimum assessment base for employees and the following provisions. The basis for the assessment would therefore be really achieved income and the employer would not be obliged to pay for employees with a basis of assessment, which is lower than the previous, so-called. minimum basis of assessment, difference of insurance premiums. The establishment of a minimum assessment base is currently demotivating both employees and, above all, employers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u3	I'm gonna ask you to calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u4	I guess my colleagues need some advice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u5	But I'm really gonna ask you to calm down!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u6	Thank you. Thus, both employees and employers are demotivated to conclude part-time employment relationships and lead to a circumvention of the obligation to pay the surcharges to the minimum basis of assessment through the negotiation of labour agreements. According to the latest Eurostat data, the Czech Republic is only 25th among the countries of the European Union in part-time employment. Only Croatia, Bulgaria and Hungary are doing the same or worse in this ranking. The proportion of workers in the age group between 20 and 64 years employed in this type of job is only 5.6 % in the Czech Republic. At present, roughly one tenth of women and a little more than 2 percent of men have reduced their time. At the very opposite pole in this ranking are countries such as the Netherlands, where 76 percent of women and 26 percent of men use this form of employment. In neighbouring Germany or even Austria, they are half the women and every tenth man. On average, in the European Union, it is almost a third of women and 9 percent of men. Let's compare it to the 10 percent, respectively. 2 % with us. For a long time, the Chamber of Commerce and other employers and other associations also points to a situation where the current legislation does not only promote flexibility, but rather hinders it. [[12.50 hours]] In our opinion, one reason is the lack of motivation for employers and employees themselves to enter into employment relations on this type of job. The minimum amount of compulsory health insurance contributions is equally high for full-time and part-time employees. In the case of part-time employees whose basis of assessment is lower than the minimum assessment base, the obligation to pay insurance premiums of 13,5% from the difference between those bases shall apply to the health insurance undertaking through their employer. This causes a financial burden on the employees' side and also an administrative burden on employers' side. This effectively discourages both sides of the labour market from concluding employment relationships of this type. In this context, I can also recall the fact that the Czech Republic is regularly reprimanded by international experts, organizations and others for just too high labor taxation, or a high burden on low wages. The payment of health insurance is the biggest part of this. The proposed amendment therefore exempts from the law, as already mentioned in the introduction, the provisions on a minimum assessment basis for employees and the following provisions. For self-employed persons, we leave a minimum assessment base. Thus, the basis for the assessment will always be the real income achieved and the employer will not be obliged to pay for employees with a basis of assessment, which is lower than the so-called minimum assessment base, the difference of insurance premiums. The purpose and purpose of the proposed legislation is to eliminate the disadvantages of the part-time cuts, thus enabling, in particular, groups of persons who are limited in a certain way, to perform full-time work and to obtain income that would exceed the minimum wage by using the short-time work. These include, in particular, parents returning to work after maternity or parental leave, who, in addition to work, are of course still engaged in child care, but also a number of other groups. Insurance for employees will be new if we approve this amendment, amount to the amount calculated from the revenue actually earned. It will remove the disadvantage of working on this type of health insurance work. The minimum assessment basis for employees shall be the minimum wage fixed. In recent years it has been regularly increased, last since 1 January this year it has again increased to CZK 14,600. The proposed amendment therefore concerns all those whose actual part-time earnings amount to 14,600 and lower. The current legislation in practice often leads to the negotiation of agreements on work done outside the employment relationship, i.e. agreements on the carrying out of work, from which no public health insurance premiums are paid. It follows that the provision on a minimum basis has become practically ineffective and unnecessary. As a result, it harms employees as a weaker party to the employment relationship, whose employment protection in the case of employment is clearly higher than in the case of the labour agreement. In conclusion, the Government has taken a neutral position on the proposal, stating that the objective of the proposed bill is in line with the government's strategy for gender equality in the Czech Republic and its concept of family policy. I would add that with regard to the costs, which are certainly relatively negligible in this case, we are talking about the fact that many more people who would like to work, but it does not allow them to do so for a number of circumstances other than just a few hours a week, they will not have to work in those forms of performance agreements and so on, because it is often the only possible alternative for them today, and it is worth going to a classic employment contract. And so even if at that point the income of the state budget, or health insurance companies, is lower for them than it is now, if we leave the current situation, it's actually a plus compared to when there's no insurance policy at all. So in this respect, the point of view needs to be taken into account. At the same time, it must be said that this is the real reason why this form of employment is so little used in our country, even though, of course, there are a number of other aspects, whether they are in the area of managing these people who are working on reduced forms, or the general attractiveness of these jobs from the point of view of precisely the level of wages they achieve. But I believe that this change can be very helpful to a number of people who would like to work, they simply cannot do the fullest. Thank you for your attention and in advance for supporting this necessary proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u7	Now I'll read three apologies. Member Václav Klaus for family reasons from 12.50 pm to the end of the meeting day, and Mrs Andrea Babišová from 13 pm for work reasons. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Jaroslav Dvořák. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u8	Hello, thank you for your word. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present a report on the bill amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on Public Health Insurance Insurance Insurance, as amended, House Press 162. The aim of the proposal is to abolish the obligation of employees to pay insurance at least on a minimum basis. The purpose and purpose of the proposed legislation is to eliminate the disadvantages of the part-time cuts, thus enabling, in particular, groups of persons who are limited in the capacity to perform full-time work and to obtain income that would exceed the minimum wage using the part-time cuts. This will have a major impact on the revenues of the public health insurance system. In particular, the proposers do not quantify these effects, suggesting that the lack of an additional premium up to the minimum will be eliminated by increasing the income of insurance premiums from part-time closed employment. According to estimates, these could be direct costs worth almost one billion crowns. However, this decline may be much higher if there were a special-purpose negotiation where the number of persons entering the system would increase, which would be more favourable to them than the existing one. This is a proposal which provides for the abolition of the minimum assessment base for health insurance only for employees and leaves them in force for other groups of payers. Given the importance and complexity of the legislation on the public health insurance system, this issue should be discussed in detail and I therefore recommend that the bill be released for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u9	I am now opening a general debate for which I have no application. Yes, Prime Minister Adam Vojtěch claims priority. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill is presented with the obvious good intention of supporting people who, for various reasons, are in a situation where they can have either part-time or none. However, the chosen way of supporting the emergence of new part-time jobs is very dangerous from the point of view of the public health insurance system and the whole health care system, and does not lead to the declared objective. I would like to bring you closer to what is likely to follow following the abolition of the minimum assessment base for employees. [[13.00 hours]] The first significant negative is the impact on the revenue side of the public health insurance system, which can be estimated at up to one billion crowns, and will in no way be compensated for by the increased number of part-time contracts, as the petitioners say. Any person with permanent residence in the territory of the Czech Republic who is not a national insured person, an employee or a self-employed person shall be required to pay insurance premiums as a person without taxable income. That's about 250,000. This also applies to persons who are employed on an agreement on work with monthly income up to CZK 3,000 or who have income from the agreement on carrying out work with monthly income up to CZK 10,000. These persons shall pay premiums from the minimum assessment base. This means CZK 1 971 per month for this year. When the proposal is adopted, these persons will be able to close any part-time period and the amount of the premiums paid by them will immediately fall to a level of approximately CZK 420 per month. If only a quarter of the current number of persons without taxable income is maintained in this way, the annual impact and decline in income in the public health insurance system will be CZK 800 million. The justification of the proposal therefore completely misses reality in part of the impact on public budgets. However, much worse is the apparent promotion of health tourism for citizens from other countries of the European Union and beyond. The proposed legislation will motivate the purpose of the negotiations, where the Czech public health insurance system will allow a large number of low-time foreigners to enter into the Czech public health insurance system and a completely negligible amount of public health insurance contributions. The extent of the health services paid to them then remains the same as for other insured persons, and they will be paid significantly to all persons active economically. Here is also a practical example where, in the absence of a minimum assessment base, there was a special purpose start-up of companies in which insured persons were employed part-time, although having paid a minor premium, they had access to the entire portfolio of health services covered by the health insurance scheme there. Based on this experience from 1 January 2018, the Slovak Public Health Insurance Act provides that only one whose monthly income is at least equal to the Slovak minimum wage may be involved on the basis of employment, which, on the other hand, causes a number of problems for cross-border workers who have only part-time work. Given that in the Czech Republic the extent of health services paid is one of the broadest within the European Union, it can be expected that in a similar way than in Slovakia, only workers from border areas will behave, but everyone for whom this will be economically advantageous. With this step, the Czech Republic opens the arms of its generous health system to all those who will conclude employment here for as little time as possible. Of course, everyone will pay for this situation, because ultimately there will not be enough money in the system for needed health care, or it will get worse for all the availability of health services. The submitters of this proposal further argue that the minimum assessment base does not apply to social insurance premiums and the premium is calculated from the really achieved earnings. Compared to health insurance, however, in social insurance, an employee receives benefits, such as pensions or sickness benefits, calculated on the basis of contributions to the scheme paid, since social insurance is financial benefits, while in the health insurance the insured person receives everything to which he is entitled under the law, regardless of how much he contributes. The way in which the petitioners try to achieve support for part-time closure in some limited groups of people I do not consider to be happy. Even at present, the Public Health Insurance Insurance Act contains a list of insured persons for whom the minimum assessment base does not apply. Although it is already wide enough in my view, there is nothing to prevent the discussion of increasing the scope and possible extension of it to other groups, such as the greater support of mothers caring for children after parental leave, which is the only group that the petitioners expressly refer to as the one to which the proposal aims. I consider the complete abolition of the minimum assessment base in order to support several relatively small groups of persons to be a proverbial spill of a bathtub with a child in this regard. The proposal also contains other major shortcomings, for example it does not take into account the group of self-employed persons at all. First of all, it does not change anything and thus establishes their factual discrimination against employees. In addition, by repealing several provisions governing the assessment base of employees, to which the adjustment of the minimum assessment base of self-employed persons explicitly refers, the proposal makes it clear that exceptions will no longer apply to him, even if at the same time they are national insured persons or persons with severe disabilities or persons caring for children and others to whom such derogations apply. The status of a self-employed person will thus be significantly worse due to the proposal, as it will pay from a minimum assessment basis even if it is a national insured person or another person subject to a derogation under the current regulation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the provision on a minimum basis has not been contained in the Public Health Insurance Insurance Act without purpose and has been in operation for more than 25 years. I am very happy to support a rational proposal that will relieve some other groups of insured people for objective reasons. However, I absolutely have to reject the proposed amendment of the law, which will not only cause a major inequality between insurance payers, which, in my opinion and the court, is unacceptable, but at the same time poses enormous risks to the public health insurance system, all in order to support a single, explicitly mentioned group of insured persons, which is not effectively targeted at. I therefore propose rejecting this bill at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u11	Thank you. I've noted the motion. Now, therefore, with Mrs Langšádlová's point of fact. Before she arrives and I give her my word, Mr Ondráček apologizes to us for working reasons for today's meeting from 13:30 p.m. to the end of the day. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Health Minister, I am very sorry about your arguments. You are a young person, and you should understand the situation of young families who would like to reconcile their professional and personal lives, for example through those part-time jobs. And the fact that the system's been paying for 25 years, well, that may be true, but that doesn't mean it's right. And I believe that it is illogical and that it is unfair and that it simply, in terms of the contributions, is handicapped by those who work and want to work part-time. And of course, they are very often the young families. And you know, and the petitioner here made it very clear how low the number of part-time jobs we have here. Then let's look for other ways. But you don't come with them. You're criticizing our proposal, and I don't think it's fair that you're saying it's going to be 800 million. It's more than you're saying, but even the 800 million is really just a fraction of what you spend, for example, to support travel costs, and that's completely untargeted to everyone. So I'm begging you, you're not coming up with another proposal, he's criticizing our proposal, but you're not doing anything for it. The situation is really bad. So, together in the context of this law, let us come up with a compromise that will lead to support for part-time jobs. I have a lot of experience in Holland, too, and you know that this is a country where really maybe a third of people do part-time jobs, not just the parents of small children, but also other groups. I think that very often it is also an offer for people who have, for example, just before retirement and who are no longer so focused on making as much money as possible. It is indeed one of the forms of future that will allow this flexibility, and let us look for other, alternative flexible forms of employment. Undoubtedly, they include the part-timers. I believe that this proposal is aimed at this, and I am asking for support for the release of the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u13	Well, thank you. And now Mr Grospič is in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government, I would also like to comment briefly on the proposed amendment to the law, which seems to raise a lot of emotions here, even though it seems innocent, reasonable, and even so that it would make it easier especially for mothers or persons who want to work on short-term jobs. I would like to stress here that in the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia programme there is in no way support and preference for short-term jobs or other forms of employment at the expense of reducing classic employment to a full eight-hour working time. We are aware that specific categories of residents, young families, mothers with children, certain categories of elderly people, must vote for and seek forms of short-term employment in view of their health, their family environment. However, this should not become a situation where it is clearly preferred or such legislative rules have been established that preference for such contributions will be allowed. [[13.10 hours]] We were opening a government amendment to the Labour Code here last week. In fact, this bill pre-empts a little bit of what may be approved in the amendment to the Labour Code, perhaps not, and that is the issue of shared jobs, because it is also actually an open form of preference other than long-term jobs, which means short-term forms of employment for one job, which would be shared by two or more, perhaps three employees, and of course it would be very convenient for them to cancel the minimum assessment base at this point. But I'm saying, it's not just this question. It is, of course, also a question of foreign employees. The opinion itself states, yes, that the statistical statement that 5,7 % of employed persons currently work from the total number between the ages of 20 and 64 only on short-term forms of employment, and that, therefore, in the concept of family policy and at all the obligations and concept of government for the years 2014 to 2020 is the preference for this number of short-term jobs to rise. But it is also necessary to say, and here it has also been recalled from the mouth of the Minister, to the number of working foreigners, that nowadays, according to the latest data of the Czech Statistical Office, they are already more than 12 percent of the employees of foreigners who work in the Czech Republic. In most of the total number of foreigners, this is done by the citizens of Ukraine, Slovakia, Vietnam and also by the citizens of Russia, Poland, Bulgaria and Romania. This massive economic migration, supported by labour shortages, and I say the relative labour shortages, has been growing in recent years especially from the Eastern European countries of the European Union, and it is a question of what wages these people are working for. They are often employed in the form of agency employment and do not receive full-time equivalent wages, rather exceptions than domestic employees. If we consider and calculate that there will be an increase in the number of working foreigners in the Czech Republic, and they will also be offered in the form of agency employment work on the form of short-term jobs, then it is a question of dealing with this proposal especially to young families, mothers and children completely marginal, because it will be abused by employment agencies, foreign employees will be used to do so, who basically will be dumpingally creating an environment for Czech employees, and there will be pressure on companies to refrain from the long-term permanent employment of their employees in order to choose and employ people for short-term jobs, shared jobs, and then, of course, we will get into the problem of not meeting the minimum assessment base. I think, in this situation, that the bill should wait for the negotiation of the labour code itself to come to an end. In this context, I would like to join the proposal to reject the standard presented.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u15	Yes. Mrs Pekarová has now signed up for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u16	Thank you for your word. I would have responded to the complaints raised by the Minister of Health, but also some other things. I am here before we finally had the opportunity to start discussing this amendment, because the two-year anniversary of the submission of this proposal, together with the other petitioners, is really coming up, of course, had the opportunity and opportunity to meet with some of the officials of the Ministry of Health, who said to me these complaints, which were also mentioned by the Minister today, and I realize that the risk, for example, of abuse from the party - this said the agencies of work, but perhaps purposefully established companies, which could only employ foreigners, exists here. That is why we also discussed with your colleagues, Minister through the President, the possibility at the next stage of the discussion of this bill to focus on precise wording and on the possibilities to improve the law so as to resolve the problem that we are trying to address with this. And here I really have to join what my colleague Langšádlová said. Unfortunately, in the six years you've ruled, you haven't come up with any concrete improvement. You didn't come up with a solution. Only now in the amendment to the Code do you come up with an idea, which I would like to comment on later. But this effort, which finally comes to us after two years, that we can move it forward and we can have a professional discussion on it in the committees and talk about, for example, the changes that could contribute to preventing abuse, so we will not actually allow it if we reject it. I am sorry that there is no constructive approach in the sense - so let us try to improve the proposal. Here in the solution that is proposed, there is really an opportunity to use § 3 para. 8 of that law in the extension of individual specified groups, although I think it is a bit of a process of laying down our rules on payment of this insurance, and that it is the way that is less preferred for me but viable. And if there's an opportunity to agree on this here, I'm asking you to really move on to the next round, and to have a chance, even with a longer period, because it won't be easy, so focus on it. There are a number of employers here, entrepreneurs who know how enormous the lack of people on the labour market is. Where there is one in quotation marks today, awfully said and I apologize maybe for that word, it is not appropriate to use it, but I can't think of a better expression, a reservoir of those who might still work or want to work, but it really prevents them from being unable to do full working hours, so it is those groups that usually take care of someone, whether they are children, they are women, like on maternity leave, on parental leave, or they are people who are already at that age caring for their parents, etc., and they would like to, in a number of professions, work only a few hours a day or just a few hours a week. I'm sure even the employers would like to hire them today, but it is these people who do not have the minimum wage for part-time work. And then it's practically clear. That's what employers across the board tell me that in such a case, in such a situation, the person is already quite expensive to them, and they wonder if they'll give him the chance and if they'll give him the job. And what's left for the person who has no choice but to work for hours a day? He has no choice but to accept that he simply does not get into the labour market at all. So the situation is that he stays a state insured person, we all pay for him, and he doesn't make any payments at the time. I think, after measuring these two variations, it's still better to be employed, so that the labour market and these people can be more easily employed, and at that point he was also the one taking the insurance out of it. I'll go back to the proposal we have under discussion here. It is now moving into committees and concerns the Labour Code, where this area is dealt with in the form of so-called. shared jobs. Ever since we discussed this, I just mentioned that the greater problem for employers is the amount of contributions. This is the solution we offer and are willing to discuss how to adjust it, but it is not a question of how to schedule working hours for these people. And that is the only thing, unfortunately, that addresses the provisions of the Labour Code that Minister Maláčová presented here. [[13.20 hours]] And she actually knows it very well, because in those debates, she herself says that she is aware that the problem for employers is rather the draft and the financial one. But since her point of view is the leftist one, she really says it this way - I am not making it any easier, it will be borne by people or honourable Members who are with me in committees who have dealt with it or, respectively, in the Committee on Family and in the Committee on Social Policy - she says: we want to subsidize employers' shared jobs, we will give them money for employing someone. I find it incredibly pointless scratching my right hand behind my left ear from the start, when I put it that way. Because we're going to collect some money from the citizens first, put it in one of the common units, then employ a bunch of officials who reach into that box, have employers write applications, and then add more paperwork, so they're going to have to get something out of the pick, that is, the clerk, sent them to employ someone part-time. Well, I don't know about you, but I don't think this solution is entirely convincing. And she herself says yes, it's a left-wing view, and your view is right-wing. But please, nicely here in this case, I don't think it's necessary to play left or right, but just what's reasonable. What's reasonable? So to choose from those people less, not to have to put it on some common box, not to have to employ those officials who themselves - first of all, are enough of them, and secondly, we would have to take on more - and just leave the money to those people to leave it to the employers. And then they'd really rather be in this case -- and I'm sure, because I'm really talking to them a lot about this -- they'd rather be employing these people themselves. But some shared job doesn't really bother them. They know how to schedule their employees' work hours, and they can do it without us figuring it out in the Labour Code. And they certainly don't wait for subsidies. Believe me, most of them don't really want to hire someone to get a grant. They need to have the job done, what they're making for their livelihood. That is why I think that we really should give a chance here to discuss this amendment and adjust it in such a way that we try to remove the risks that I perceive and do not demean at all. And if we find out during this discussion that we won't be able to find a model that - let's leave the basis of the assessment and do it in such a way as to name another group, but please, let's finally move on. Because no one here has tried to move this particular problem on our labour market in any other form. Nothing but the nonsense introduced by the Labour Code, here in six years as a member of this honored House, has been discussed. And the market needs it more and more. The situation hasn't been getting any better in six years. So if we could just say that the market would sort it out, I wouldn't be a fan of it to change anything. But obviously, we can't do this without touching it on this plane. And believe me, the thousands of people involved are really waiting for this, and they will be very, very, very happy if we can finally do something for them in this matter and move on with it. They want to work, but, as Mr Grospič says through the President, nothing against it, but not everyone can and wants to work full-time, for those eight hours a day, as you mentioned here. And not everyone gets the opportunity to use it part-time. I believe that we should leave it to those people in particular, whether they want to or can work as we see it as full working hours or just for a few hours a day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u17	Thank you. I'll ask your colleagues for more peace. Now we have two factual points. Mr Bláha, then Mr Jiránek, is Mr Kaňkovský from the post. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I must tell the opposition to decide whether they want to live in socialism or capitalism. If in socialism, of course, let's give it all away for free. If, in capitalism, where we have signed up and we are still reporting to the West, let's look from our borders to the West, what they have at their disposal there. You'll find we're a thousand times better off, we've got DPP, we've got DPC. This means that in one case up to 10,000 the employee pays nothing, in the other case up to 300 hours worked per year the employee pays nothing. So I think we have enough resources that aren't common to the west of us. And we abuse them to a great extent. We abuse them by saying that the employee usually works five hours while working 200. So we should think more about sending this tool to the ice and preventing companies from using these tools and thinking about the amount of what companies have to do. Because 36 percent, or 34 percent, that companies take for employees to social and health, I think that's why a bunch of people are going to work black today because they're expensive for companies. So you need to look at it from a second perspective and not from what you want. We really have enough tools for a few hours. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u19	Thank you. Now, Mr Jiránek, then Mrs Pekarová, with factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u20	Greetings, colleagues, colleagues. I have to say very briefly that all the contributions, including the last one, were factual and I liked them very much. I would really like to ask the Minister to continue talking about this, and to move it forward to the next reading, because the discussion about it, as well as about DPP and DPČ, should take place and we should resolve it, even the abuse of the individual options. So let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u21	Thank you and now Mrs Pekarová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u22	I want to respond to Mr Bláha through the President. But you're confirming exactly what I've been saying all along. It is precisely that the contributions are the reason why employers have a more difficult situation. And by doing this, we're going to prevent the use of the forms that I mentioned, such as the performance of work, and so on, what you're doing here. So it contradicts the fact that you're molding me for it as a translator, and yet, basically, in other words, you're defending it. So just so we're clear what we're talking about here. This really has the option, or the objective of limiting such contributions, or such, let's say, forms of work that are just without the levying obligation. It's because this guy's gonna work, even for less hours, but for a contract, classic. So it's just a simple way of knowing that we're actually in line here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u23	Thank you. A final point in fact, so now Mr Kaňkovský, who is enrolled in the debate from the point of view. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u24	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. Let me also make a brief comment as co-chair of this amendment on the subject under discussion. I would like to respond to the words of the Minister of Health through Mr President. Of course, I understand - and it is the duty of the Minister of Health, namely the government, to defend, or the government, the balance in public health insurance. Because if we don't have enough payment in public health insurance, we won't have enough money for quality health care. However, some of the arguments put forward by the Minister here are not entirely in line. And then I was surprised, too, and I have to say that I am very sorry about this, the bagelization of the number of moms, possibly today, even daddies, but also people of pre-age who really need a flexible form of work for various reasons, even because of health disability. Those aren't bogus numbers, they're tens of thousands of people in this country. And I'm convinced that your words were quite a big box for them. A representative of the KSČM also said the same thing. I understand that this is an ideological issue. And Mr Grospič, through Mr President, has the right to do so. The KSČM does not support short-term jobs, it claims it, proudly claims it and it is their right. I don't want to argue with that. But I'm a little sorry about the Minister of Health. I don't want to argue about this right now. But let's be aware of the real situation, especially moms on parental leave who want to go to work in part. [[13.30 hours]] In the current situation of repeated valorisation of the minimum wage, which I personally support, although I know that there is a need for balance here too, it is once again necessary to see not only those employees, but also those employers, and here I would, I hope, please Mr Bláh. But it's reality. The average wage in this country is increasing, and it is clear that the minimum wage should also be raised at a reasonable level. But what's in real life for people who have part-time jobs? If, for example, they work part-time and work in a position where they don't earn as much as the minimum wage in real life, then any increase in minimum wage means that they have to pay the difference in that minimum compulsory health insurance contribution and on their payroll, i.e. with each increase in minimum wage, they will see less. And this is the reality of a number of mothers who leave their children for work because they want to keep in touch with their work first, but the employer also likes to keep them busy because there is a shortage of labour today. And we say to these mothers: with each increase in minimum wage, you will have less on the payroll. If we're talking about discrimination here, isn't that also discriminatory? Or at least demotivating? Therefore, I would like to appeal very much to this, and I am not saying that our draft has no flaws or that it is not for discussion. I think it's for discussion. On the contrary, here again I would commend the Minister that he really is responsible for ensuring that public health insurance is in harmony. But let's talk about it. And I'd appeal to the government, I did it here last week when we were talking about the amendment to the Labour Code. The government repeatedly, through the mouth of Minister Maláčová and other members, says that it wants to promote flexible forms of work, that it wants to promote better reconciliation of work and private life. But we're waiting for the specific suggestions. We're waiting for what the government really does for moms, dads, but it does for people who are pre-aged. So I would appeal very much and ask whether you would consider releasing this press to another reading, so that we can talk about these things, and here I think it is obvious that the Social Committee should also deal with this, because it really follows up, and here I have to agree, this also follows up on the amendment to the Labour Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u25	Thank you. At this point, I don't have any more applications for the debate. Mr. Secretary reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u26	Thank you for the floor. Very briefly indeed. I have nothing against moms on parental leave and so on. This is not really the problem I have with this bill. I have a problem with the way in which the petitioners have decided to support this group, which is actually relatively smaller in total, and although I do not want to devalue it or say that it is simply not important, but the law, as it is written, requires practically complex recasting. And the question is whether to introduce a law into the next process, which we basically have to completely redo, because, as I have listed here in this speech, it contains a number of shortcomings, risks and the like, if it is not really better to propose new legislation, when it is precisely within the framework of the Act on Public Health Insurance Insurance, which, as I said, contains a list of insured persons, for which the minimum assessment base does not apply today, that group should not be extended. I don't know why the petitioners didn't go this way. We do not oppose such a discussion in this respect, for example, by supporting mothers who care for children after parental leave. But the law itself, in principle, is not acceptable to me, at least as Minister of Health. The risks are too high. I'm here mainly to defend the public health insurance system. And in this regard, I personally cannot support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u27	Thank you. That was the last application for a general debate at the moment. If no one else is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in final words. The plaintiff is interested in the final word. [[The reaction from the diaper: Not anymore!]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u28	jo. I still do, Mr President. But briefly. Yeah? I'd just respond to why we didn't go that way when it was mentioned here, why we didn't go the other way. Well, because you always forget someone in that book. You know, of course, we're talking about examples of people who would use it in particular and for whom the situation is particularly important. But it could be anyone else who just doesn't fit in with the group, and just because I'm going to give another example - that it's going to be a woman whose husband makes good money, or a man whose wife makes great money, and so he could be in the house, but he doesn't want to work a little bit in a partial form, so if they don't have kids, we're not going to put him in the book, or if he already has kids big, we're not going to put him back in that list. So there's always a whole bunch of others, and now I've just given a certain example where it just defends some form. I see, this isn't the social need that we're referring to the most. But for that reason, we have, at least, TOP 09, better simplifying systems. But we perceive the risks, we perceive the Minister's arguments. That is why we want to work on this in committees so that the form of abuse that has been outlined here cannot happen. For this reason, I will only ask you in the final words, or I would like to ask that we let this go on, but therefore to discuss it consistently in the committees. I believe we are able to find a compromise agreement. Because if we're going to be leaning on the "we're going to put something new" option, ladies and gentlemen, we have a year and a quarter before the election. I mean, none of us really believe that at the point where this proposal has been here for two years, we're still gonna move on with it in this parliamentary term. Again, we will not improve the situation in this four-year term. When it's recounted in the last one, there's not gonna be anything that's tangible in practice going on here for eight years. So for that reason, it is much better than refusing to move on and try to find a match across the spectrum so that we can influence the situation in practice for the good, change it for the better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-010-073.u29	Thank you. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. In that case, we will now vote. I've already called my colleagues into the hall. There was a motion to dismiss. There's an application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you. Please log in with your cards again. When the number of applicants is settled, we will vote on the motion to reject this proposal... Looks like the number's settled. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of rejection. Who's against rejection? Thank you. In the vote number 203, 131 Members are enrolled, for 74, against 55, a motion for rejection has been accepted. This bill was rejected. I thank the appellant and the rapporteur. This discussion of this press ends now. Let's move on to the next point.
