ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-002-999.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 197, 198 and 199 of the House prints 549, 526 and 508/ On Tuesday, 10 November at the current meeting, a firm classification of paragraphs 199, 198 and 197 was voted on by Vice-President Vojtěch Filip on a proposal from Vice-President Vojtěch Filip. I note that, on these points, the House's decision merged the debate at the 51st meeting and was discussed ascendingly, that is, 197, 198, 199. If there were no objections, we would continue to discuss these points in order, as was the case at the 51st meeting and as has always been done so far. I don't see any objections. We're moving on. Proposal by Members Jana Krutáková, Jan Farský, Věra Kovářová, Vít Rakušan, Petr Gazdík, Petr Pávek on the issue of constitutional law amending constitutional law No. 2/1993 Coll., Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, as amended, House print 549, first reading. Proposal by Members of Marek Výborný, Jan Bartošek, Pavel Bělobrádek, Marian Jurečka, Jiří Mihola and others for the issue of constitutional law amending constitutional law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended, House print 526, first reading. Proposal by Members of Vojtěch Filip, Stanislav Grospič, Pavel Kováčik, Miloslava Vostrá and Marie Pěnčíková to issue a constitutional law amending constitutional law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended, House print 508, first reading. We dealt with these Houses of Press on 18 June 2020 at the 51st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted the discussion of these points in the merged general debate by 15 September 2020. I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken on behalf of the appellant Mrs Jana Krutáková, or another of the appellants, Mr Marek Výborný and Mr Stanislav Grospič. I would remind you that the rapporteur for all these press chambers is Mr František Navrkal. We will now continue the interrupted merged general debate. They've applied for the floor, but with priority rights, I'm getting word from President Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-002-999.u2	Thank you for the floor. In order not to interrupt the debate, I am speaking with the procedural proposal at this time. Allow me to propose, on behalf of the ODS and the KDU-ČSL, that we negotiate today and to vote on draft laws after 19 o'clock, pending the discussion of point 52 inclusive. This means this point, which has a merged debate, and then one more point at second reading, when I expect a very short debate. If we make it to nineteen, of course it'll be okay. I cannot estimate how long the debate will last, this merged one. However, I make this proposal on behalf of our two clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-002-999.u3	Then I will vote on this proposal without delay. I'm gonna sing. And we will vote that we can vote and discuss laws after 7:00 until item 52 is discussed. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 266, registered by 101 Members, for 76, was against no one. The motion was accepted. There. As I said, I have opened a general debate, or we are continuing in an interrupted merged general debate. And with priority rights, the Vice-President will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-002-999.u4	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, let me remind you briefly in the debate that the issue of water protection, natural resources and what is the most fundamental condition of human life is a matter that we have dealt with in the long term and has become the subject of the topics of individual political parties. The three proposals that are put forward here bear witness to this. Two are conceptually similar, this is the design of KSČM and KDU-ČSL. And although the proposal put forward by a group of members of the Mayors and Independents is somewhat different conceptually, it is based not on a change in the constitutional article, but on the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which is possible. After the discussion in the Permanent Commission for the Constitution of the Czech Republic, which discussed it, we have come to the conclusion that it is possible to move this proposal forward so as to take place in committees and at second reading, especially after the experts of individual political parties in negotiations at the Ministry of Agriculture reached an agreement which is an agreement of a broad political spectrum in order to form part of both the constitutional text and then the text of the Water Act itself, or the Water and Sewer Act, which would result from this, from the new constitutional text. Therefore, I will not delay anything, and I suggest that all three prints, i.e. 508, 526 and 549, proceed to second reading. I propose this in a joint debate, which is possible under the Rules of Procedure Act, so that it can be voted on individually, or suddenly be voted on, and that, in addition to the constitutionally-legal committee, of course, the Committee on Agriculture, where the group of agricultural experts agreed on what would be the initial premission for adoption after the adoption of the constitutional amendment to those implementing laws. I think that this is an appropriate measure that will also be understood in the Senate, because most of the things that we have here in the Chamber of Deputies are not always resonating in the ranks of the Senate, but given the broad consensus here, I assume that there will be sufficient consensus of three fifths of senators to adopt such a law when we adopt it, the constitutional law was adopted in the Senate, so that we can find further treatment for the important constitutional protection of water in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-002-999.u5	Thank you, too. I will ask the Chamber of Deputies to quiet down easy. Anyone who wants to discuss anything, please, in the lobby. With priority rights, Mr. Agriculture Minister Toman has signed up for me. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-002-999.u6	Hello, Mr President, Madame Members, allow me to briefly comment on these three House prints. I would like to begin by thanking and thanking all three Members' clubs, who devoted their time to the idea of water protection and tried to create their own proposals in which they reflected their ideas of solving this issue. Each one was conceived in a different way, but it contained all three very decent foundations on which the new legislation could be built. So I want to thank you for that. I would very much like to follow up on this issue with the House meeting, which took place 18. 6. 2020 when these three parliamentary proposals were first discussed in the House of Deputies. At that time, I briefly summarized the way in which the Ministry of Agriculture set out to protect water. I spoke about the analysis of the law faculty as well as about several round tables that we organized together with the Ministry of Environment, the Office of the Government, the experts of the law faculty and also with you through representatives of your MPs. As you know, the Ministry of Agriculture has helped and helped Members to draw up a draft constitutional law on the protection of water and water resources. This proposal has been voted in the Government and is now waiting for discussion here in the Chamber of Deputies under the number of the House press 1018. In preparing it, we tried to take into account all the three prints that we are discussing here today, their core ideas and objectives, and we tried to add our own to the proposal in order to create a comprehensive adjustment for water protection. I therefore consider it appropriate for the three proposals tabled to be met by ours in committee discussions. I look forward to working with you, and I would like to thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-002-999.u7	Thank you, too. And in the general debate is Mr Jaroslav Holík. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Mr. President Jurečka applied, I missed him, I didn't register, so I'm sorry again. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-002-999.u8	Thank you. Mr President, ministers, colleagues, colleagues, we have already opened this debate in the past. I presented the KDU-ČSL proposal, which we prepared almost a year and a half ago. I'm just going to remind him very briefly. The point is that when we intervene in the Constitution, we take these steps very carefully and to the minimum extent possible. Therefore, our proposal actually amends Article 7. We are already talking about the need to protect mineral resources and natural resources here. So we're actually adjusting the definition in that we specify that sentence with a special emphasis on water and soil protection. In fact, so that water and soil are superior, for example, to the protection of mineral wealth, because they are really two key commodities. If we want to talk about water retention in the landscape, we can't just talk about water itself, water infrastructure, but we need to talk about soil. The soil in the Czech Republic is the largest reservoir of water we have here. So that's why we're based on this principle here. I completely agree to discuss this today, to move the amendments to second reading, to discuss how we will bring our proposals to a reasonable compromise. Of course, it is important to communicate with Senate representatives in this debate, because these changes are not possible without the constitutional majority in the Senate. So very briefly. Thank you for any support and for the effective discussion tonight on this proposal or on these important proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-002-999.u9	Thank you, too. And I don't see anyone with priority rights, so Member Jaroslav Holík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-002-999.u10	Mr President, the two most important masters of the ministers, my fellow Members, my fellow Members... [[There are three ministers here.]] Excuse me, Minister, I'm sorry. He didn't notice anyway. So, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to comment on these upcoming constitutional laws on the protection of natural wealth and to pause specifically on the most important raw material, that is water. I've already described the importance of water for the preservation of life on Earth in my speech to the Law of Water. Water is indeed a fundamental condition of life. And if we destroy these life resources here, life on Earth will die. At present, the basic problem is not the lack of water or the decreasing depth of groundwater, but it is the lack of protection of water resources. And I would like the conscious damage to water resources to be treated as a criminal offence. Water must not become an artifact for the creation of profit. And all the money obtained from the sale to be returned to the protection and purity of water resources, and not to end up in the accounts of traffickers or most multinational companies. Water is a strategic raw material and its distribution should return to the state. Ladies and gentlemen, tell me who takes better care of the assets entrusted. A permanent owner, or just a temporary owner or landlord, who follows the slogan "deluge after me"? Excuse me, I'd say "dry after me," wouldn't I? I don't know what motivated our political predecessors to sell the distribution of basic raw materials to foreign monopolies. By this sale, the Czech citizen is punished twice. This is the first time that distributors' profits go abroad, and the second time badly concluded contracts that are to the detriment of citizens of cities and the state of the Czech Republic. That is to say, only the owner of the water source or the owner of the technical equipment may apply for subsidies from EU funds. Thus are our people punished a second time. Contracts concluded are illegal, and it seems that even today competent people are okay with that. Ladies and gentlemen, everything around the water will eventually be paid again by Czech citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-002-999.u11	Thank you. Next is Mrs Kateřina Valachová, Mr Josef Kott will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-002-999.u12	Mr President, colleagues, fellow Members, dear government, I would like to use this merged debate to provide information on what this means in terms of water protection, constitutional protection of water, so far the permanent Commission for the Constitution has made it possible for me to chair it. The Permanent Commission for the Institute has repeatedly dealt with water protection, including the whole series of prints that you see on the board. With regard to our resolution or our resolutions on this matter, we assume that we would still be discussing a professional debate on water protection by the end of the year. And we will certainly appreciate the presence of experts and also of ministers, the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of the Environment, because this is indeed a significant change. The Permanent Commission for the Constitution across the political spectrum, and in this we also agree with the Permanent Commission for the Constitution in the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, supports the adoption of a constitutional change for water protection. This is positive, because you know we need both chambers' approval to change the Constitution. And I would almost say that this is really one of the few things that has the hope that, in this term of office of the House, we will see a constitutional change that will actually be completed, ready for which both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic are prepared and willing to agree. [[18.20 hours]] At the same time, however, we are in an emergency state. I would like to inform you here that the Permanent Commission for the Constitution has reached an agreement, I note, as in the spring, during the emergency period, that constitutional changes have not been discussed. We do not think this is entirely appropriate, because the Constitution really deserves full attention, and yet only at that time of the covido, and in an emergency state in particular, we are somewhat limited. However, as I say, in the following month we should not be lazy, there should be a meeting with the petitioners of all these prints in order to look for some red thread, where we should move further, and at the same time a conference meeting should be held, a meeting of course adapted to the possibility of using videoconferencing, etc. I assume that a permanent commission for the Constitution at, say, a proper meeting would be able to adopt a resolution, and I think that in this case a joint meeting of committees for the Constitution of both chambers of Parliament would be appropriate, that is to say, the Senate. There, therefore, there has now been a change both in the Commission Presidency and in the membership, so I think this will be appropriate. I personally estimate that this could happen in January, at the latest in January, and I think that constitutional protection of water really has a chance of approval. Of course, I am also obliged to my colleagues from the Permanent Commission for the Constitution as President, and I will therefore advise, to ask the House subsequently, and I will ask you, colleagues, to support that the Permanent Commission for the Constitution should order the relevant prints of constitutional changes and be able to deal with them officially out of the will of the House's plenary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-002-999.u13	Thank you. Next is Mr. Josef Kott, Mr. Radek Holomčík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-002-999.u14	Good evening. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, we discussed the anchoring of water protection at the constitutional and legal level in the House in June this year. We interrupted the discussion of these three proposals, which, although they were going in the same direction, but each one in a different way, at the time, on the proposal of our colleague Mr Kováčik, pending the submission of a government bill. This bill was finally presented as a parliamentary initiative, but it was consulted by the Ministry of Agriculture on both technical and technical terms. It is a House press of 1018 which was signed by representatives of four MPs and was submitted to the House on 16 September as a proposal for a constitutional law on the protection of water and water resources. Despite all the shortcomings that the government has imposed on him in its neutral opinion, this is a proposal that deals with the relatively fundamental errors found in the previous parliamentary proposals. There is therefore no danger that, due to the unclear definition of natural wealth, the proposed amendment to the Constitution would mean, in addition to the nationalisation of water, the nationalisation of all land or gardens or construction plots. The newly presented draft will also not result in recovery, so there is no expropriation, arbitration or compensation that is necessarily linked to such a step. Even without these, extreme steps could be said, the proposal creates a comprehensive framework for water protection at constitutional level and introduces the availability of water to the population as one of the fundamental rights in the constitutional system of the Czech Republic, without disrupting the existing effective means of protection at all levels of our legal order. For this reason, I would like to support Minister Toman's proposal that we await press discussions 508, 526 and 549 in committees together with Press 1018. Thank you for supporting my request.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-002-999.u15	Thank you, and so far the last one entered in the general debate is Mr Radek Holomčík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-002-999.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point, I would like to express some skepticism about the process of making this act of constitutional protection of water a dramatic help to the state. I deliberately say skepticism, not that it certainly cannot work, for two reasons. We have quite detailed analyzed actually Czech legislation, which in some way concerns the protection of water or things related to it. Part of this analysis was also provided to us in the course of the negotiations on the draft Constitutional Law for the Protection of Drinking Water, which was mentioned here by Mr Kott, who was formed in the Ministry of Agriculture, which showed that, in essence, the biggest problem we have is that the state cannot enforce and comply with the laws that we now have, whether it concerns the protection of water resources - there are often discussions about the case of gravel sand in the South Moravian Region and the threat to the source of drinking water for 140 000 people. There are more cases like this all over the country. We have data on the fact that although we have some kind of set rules for use e.g. pesticides, so the number of water sources that are contaminated by the excess quantity of pesticides is increasing, and I could go on. So I would like to be part of this debate, whether we are going to talk about these three proposals, or, for example, the fourth one, which is up to date, to have some kind of evaluation of how we are able to implement the legislation that we now have, and if the problem is not that for example. in the government or even in the political will, we are not actually able to fulfill what is. That's one thing. That's the second thing that's got to do with it. Whether we look at water with a view of water, or even with a view from the point of view of, say, some landscape ecology, the very basic thing in relation to drought, the solution to drought, to ensure just some sensible water management is the landscape and it is the soil. And I am very sorry that we here, on the one hand, are talking about constitutionally protecting water, and on the other hand, things are happening like that, after x years, there is still no anti-erotic decree. It's probably taken a long time, and the debates are still going on. Another thing, she mentioned it here last time, Mrs Balcarová, is the problem with the work, the growing work and the associated agricultural land loss. There will be an amendment to the construction law and it says, virtually. in the related legislation, that if we take up agricultural land because of the construction process, it will not at all get on the table to the authorities of the protection of the agricultural soil fund. It's just a complete disrespect for the soil, for our country. And I'd love to, if we want to protect the water, let's look at it comprehensively. And then the third thing about one of those proposals, and that's more like a rhetorical question, a draft from the pen of colleagues from the KSČM, the House press 508. It says that water as well as other natural wealth is the property of the Czech Republic. I would like to remind you that in the context of various interpretations and even some other laws, it is also classified among the natural wealth, for example. agricultural land. Do we really want to get a sentence into our Constitution that, among other things, agricultural land is owned by the Czech Republic? Do we know what that would mean? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-002-999.u17	Well, thank you, too. I've called all the Members to the O.R. during your speech. I have no one else enrolled in the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words from the plaintiffs or rapporteurs. This is not the case, so we will discuss individual points separately. First, we're going to discuss item 197, which is
