ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u1	99. Government bill amending Act No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code, as amended, and Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended /German press 984/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u2	Thank you for the floor. Members of Parliament, honourable Members, the Government is presenting to the Chamber of Deputies a bill aimed primarily at increasing the protection of children in legal relations and strengthening the role of legal representatives in the legal conduct of minors. Furthermore, the educational function of the regulation is to be emphasised and to ensure greater legal certainty for its addressees. Overall, it wants to prevent the emergence of so-called children's debts, which are currently troubled by society. These areas are probably the subject of this proposal and these measures to address the issue of child debt. First, the limitation of the possibility of recovering cash debts from the legal behaviour of a minor. The fulfilment of these cash debts will be possible only from the assets acquired before the acquisition of full right and property exclusively related to it. This restriction is to be applied to all persons who acquire their right first on the date of the amendment's entry into force, i.e. to all those who will not be fully legal at this point, or newly legal, even if their debts have arisen in the past. Furthermore, it is the introduction of a legal representative's liability for fulfilling the cash debts of a minor's legal behaviour, if he has acted or agreed to do so. This will strengthen the protection of creditors. Thirdly, it is the introduction of the incapacity of minors under the age of 13 to bear the property consequences of the damage. A minor should be held responsible for a minor who has neglected to supervise him properly. Fourthly, it's a change in the order of counting the filling to the principal and accessories. This is a prevention of excessive consumer debt in general. [[18.10 hours]] In addition, this is to prevent the issuing of a payment order for a judgment for a delay and a judgment for recognition against a minor. With regard to these proposals, the proposal is presented outside the Government's legislative plan for 2019, but Members of the government's expected alternative to Valachová, Nacher, Bartošek and Kolářík's thematically identical proposal. It's a 456 House press. This identical parliamentary proposal has already been passed through the first reading last year and, following the submission of the Government's proposal, the chair of the subcommittee has been officially informed of this fact. I ask for the support of this House press and for your favor, because I think that this issue is currently very difficult for society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u3	Thank you, and with priority rights, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Tomio Okamura has now signed up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD has long advocated helping people in debt traps and we are trying to correct legislation around executions and insolvencys. Now we have a amendment to the Civil Code and the Civil Code from the Ministry of Justice workshop, which should prevent children from entering maturity with debts. According to the Minister, the law should be preventive and should prevent children's debts from occurring at all. For the SPD, we say that we support these actions. We've been dealing with executions, weirdness, debt traps for several years, and nothing has been solved in principle to this day. And quite frankly, this law, once again, only unsystemically and only partially addresses the situation. Let's talk about how underage debts can arise. Most often these are known fees for trash cans or, for example, driving or driving tickets for black, or these may be damages. In principle, the parent is responsible for the minor and, in this respect, he simply has to pay both fines and damages. And it's actually against the principle of underage, that in the financial field the minor is basically responsible, only the enforcement shifts in the 18th year. Another thing is that otherwise relatively marginal or non-liquidation penalty after a time will grow to thousands and tens of thousands of crowns and become liquidation. It will become the basis of a debt trap that is hard to get out of. Again, this is something we should be dealing with. In principle, this means that the interest on the debt should not exceed the statutory interest and the contractual fines should either be abolished or, once again, should not exceed the total cost of the debt or the amount corresponding to the statutory interest. In other words, the system must be set up in such a way that, regardless of the elderly or the minor, you will not be destroyed by fines and interest on interest. This is the biggest problem of debtors. Not the principal of the debt, but the interest-rate increases that are being paid for it. The interest rate negotiations do not really concern only loan sharks, but often banks can do so when, if you have ten crowns of debt on your card, Raiffeisen automatically charges 500 crowns a contractual penalty. Not to mention non-bank companies. The proposal here reduces, for example, the possibility of recovering children's cash debts only up to the amount of the minor's fortune on the day on which he became fully entitled. I wonder how this proposal was actually invented in principle. Because a kid who doesn't have anything isn't gonna pay for anything. And an orphan who inherited a share of the property from his parents, would he lose it? I'm missing what's preventative about that. The parent is simply responsible for the debts that are proven to cause the child. And municipalities and cities do not have the moral right to enforce the dues for which the parent is responsible for the children. If they do so and the law allows them to do so, then, first, the law is wrong and second, it is invalid because it contradicts good morals. And here I am again with the manners. The loan sharks, or it's also some villainial leadership of the communities, do what the law and the courts allow them to do, and rob anyone who lets them. However, the current Civil Code and the caselaw allow courts to reject claims that contradict good morals. But the courts do not respect the laws, the Constitution, or the natural rights of citizens, and they actually contribute to usury and unauthorized executions by sanctifying them. What is missing here is not the patch that this law is, but a systemic change that will actually ensure the enforcement of justice. Which, on the one hand, will provide people with legal representation for anyone in need, and on the other hand, will ensure that the courts respect the most basic principles contained in the Constitution, including the enforcement of good morals. In essence, minors' debts should not even arise because the legal representative is responsible for the minor. It is legitimate to discuss, for example, a 17 - year - old youth who causes damage to share in his payment. On the other hand, if his parents aren't paying for municipal waste, he probably shouldn't be responsible. Dumpster fees are really an unsolved problem in some cases. Because again, contrary to good manners, municipal waste fees are being levied on people who do not live in the village, but who have a permanent residence formally at the office. Some are homeless people who then increase the debt trap. But they are also people who work in large cities, they live there in a sublet, where, of course, they also pay fees, but still the municipality wants them to pay for them with a formal stay. I know an example when a friend of mine had to pay over 50 grand for a garbage dumpster last year, even though he hasn't lived in the city in ten years and, of course, he didn't even know to pay the office a non-existent dumpster. And, of course, he learned about the debt only from the executor when it was with the greasy extras of over 50,000 crowns. I confess that although I have addressed the SPD Ministry of Justice in history with many suggestions on how to deal with these matters systemically, with proposals to strengthen the enforcement of law and justice, the Ministry will once again only come up with a partial amendment that does not address the substance. When it comes to debts for children and minors, because the family is trapped in debt, in executions, or unsolvable poverty, it always takes away children. Kids who are innocent. The fact that some of them at 18 have been confiscated by someone and those who have nothing will not be taken away by anything, such a proposal for a solution, is really rather a mockery, not a systemic solution. Although, I repeat, even a small step forward is a good step. So what we're saying behind the SPD is that we definitely support these actions proposed by this law as part of the first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, dear government, let us address the nature of the debt. Let's get rid of people's fines, interest on interest, let's give them enforceable justice and legal aid available. The SPD has a number of laws already written that really solve these problems. For more than a year now, in the House, there are laws from the SPD pen, where we propose that the principal, the debt, and then the fees be paid in the executions. Today it is the other way around, so even though people have already overpaid many times the principal, they can't get rid of the execution. We are also proposing in this law which we have filed to abolish interest on interest. I consider interest rates to be explicitly immoral. And last but not least, we also passed a law on nationalisation of executors. However, the government of the YES, ČSSD and KSČM movement rejects our proposals because the government is not really interested in resolving the current bad situation around executions in a systemic way. I understand the government's attempts at some kind of political marketing in the sense of the wolf ate, but the goat remained whole. I'm saying to the government that the theater is that they're dealing with something systemically, people in debt really won't believe it anymore, because they live everyday practice and immediately know whether or not they've been helped by a law. And so far, here in the House, in the real system of helping people in debt traps, we haven't really moved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u5	Thank you. The rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Kateřina Valachová, will now speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister of Justice, I am very pleased that we have the opportunity to discuss at first reading a bill amending the Civil Code and the Civil Procedure Code and which does not aim at anything less than putting an end to child debts in the Czech Republic, to ban child debts. As rapporteur, I will add to the Minister of Justice, because what was exhausting in its content was that we received this government bill on 28 August 2020. Also on this bill proposal, to discuss it at first reading, an extraordinary meeting was convened, which is adjourned until now, and we are now acting at first reading on the basis of the agreement of the political grémia of the Chamber of Deputies. I certainly want to make a case-by-case announcement that I will propose, as rapporteur, a reduction in the deadlines between first and second reading. In advance, I politely dare ask for your support. For the sake of order from the perspective of the government proposal to ban child debts, I merely state that this government proposal follows the initiative of Members Valachová, Nacher, Bartošek, Kolářík from April 2019. It was a House press of 456. I draw attention to this because children's debts and the ban on children's debts were actually discussed by the House once at first reading, and then repeatedly discussed in the Sub-Committee on Debtion, and therefore let us say that we are familiar with the material in detail in these institutions. As far as the content of the law is concerned, I will probably stress that, if we support this bill at first reading, and I recommend it as rapporteur, it will mean that if the child does not have 13 years, so until then he will not have any child debts, or possibly any liabilities or debts that would arise, to the detriment of parents or other legal representatives or guardians, who are therefore to exercise proper supervision over the child. Therefore, as regards the second thing that I consider important, this is a matter of retroactive application of the law. This, in my opinion, is very important and of course it is of interest to the professional and lay public, because regardless of whether we are discussing this bill or not, there are still other and other child debts, especially at the time of the covido, so I am very happy as rapporteur that the Minister of Justice has maintained this retroactive effect, and I will briefly sum up at this point that if this bill passes, then all child debts that will be incurred by the eighteenth birthday of all children who will have 18 years of age until the effective date of this law, so all these child debts will be subject to the prohibition, the stricter rules that I have now indicated will apply. Thank you for your attention. Therefore, once again, as rapporteur, I recommend this bill for support and further deliberation and will propose a shortening of the time limits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm opening the debate. Mrs Kateřina Valachová is the first to join her if she wishes to speak. [[Yes.]] You have your word, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to speak for the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club, because the ban on child debts is something that we have been seeking for a really long time not only through this parliamentary proposal, but through our programme, which can be briefly expressed as a second chance. Thus, the basic purpose of this programme for dealing with executions and debt relief in the Czech Republic is that we support and want honest and fair repayment of debts, but we fundamentally reject the debt of slavery, especially the debt of child slavery. That is why, of course, we support and strive for a long-term ban on children's debts and we will support as a club, so that this law becomes effective as quickly as possible. I believe that January, February 2021 is real. With regard to other matters concerning the ban on child debts, what the previous speakers have already said in this sense must be true. I will not delay, however, what is important to say, although, according to statistics, the number of children's debts has decreased in recent years at least, it is important to say that the ban on child debt is absolutely necessary and complements the adjustment that has been made in recent years and which I have had the opportunity to participate in and lead this group of Members, and that is why I am referring to new rules for the withdrawal of juveniles, where children's debts arose before their 18th year of life, and which we managed to enforce in record time in April 2019, if I am not mistaken, basically within one month. So the ban on child debts, yes, and the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club, and as I say, will certainly support the inhumane thing, its ban, and the fact that it disappears from the reality that unfortunately children in the Czech Republic must live. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u9	Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher will now speak in the debate, Mr Lukáš Kolářík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u10	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I originally thought I'd describe it a little more extensive, because it's quite an important material after all, and thanks to the fact that the second reading took three hours before, I'm just going to say the most important thing. If I were to compare it to 2010, as I said at the press conference today, I would describe 2010 as such a consumer or executor Klondike. When we look at 2020, it is consumerally or also a more executor-friendly environment. And this is due to the fact that gradually over the last five years in particular, the environment has been cultivated by several amendments to both insolvency laws, enforcement laws, even the energy law, which will still be here - I hope we can do it - around the Energešmeyds, reduced the rewards of executors, lawyers and so on. However, there are a few things left. One of them is -- two of them are the most sensitive ones. One is that we have some 200 to 300,000 invalid executions, but that's up to the courts, it's not up to us to stop, and then it's the child's debts. As has already been said, a year and a half ago, we have initiated, in short, that children's debts be dealt with by the legal representative's responsibility, on the one hand, to be an amendment to the Civil Code and to the OSŘ amendment, which would address the fact that it could not be decided next time without the presence of a lawyer for default and recognition of debt. Then there was an agreement based on the opinion of the Ministry of Justice that a comprehensive government amendment will be created, which you now have on your desk, that is press 984. However, even in the meantime, we did something about the child's debts. Press 493, as has already been said, is actually heading back to the past, because what we are actually approving now goes to the future, so that it does not recur, so as to increase the protection of children, to increase the involvement of legal representatives, to increase the liability of creditors. But press 493 goes into the past in the sense that the insolvency law has changed and that the length of time for persons who had two thirds of their debts before their 18th year has been reduced to three years. That's over. Four hundred and ninety-three. Furthermore, in the meantime, 152 children's executions at the Transport Company were able to stop at the Prague Council, where I brought the topic. It was quite a complex matter, the decision of the council, the council, some order, a business order, and only then did this stop. I suppose and expect, and maybe we'll come back to that here in the debate, that some other cities and regions in this Prague have mimicked and mimicked to stop those running executions. [[18.30 hours]] And then we're in the press of 984, which we're discussing. I will not deal with this, and this is for second reading, possibly for third reading, the part described by the Minister here, the change of the OSŘ, as well as the transfer of the lease to the minor and the various transitional provisions that my colleague Valachová has explained in some way here. I'd say a few words about dividing by age, as the proposal describes it. I would have defined three of those boundaries up to the age of 13, up to the age of 15, up to the age of 18. The basic premise, that's more child protection, actually says that the debts can be penalized until 18, over 18 years of age, only up to the amount of property that the person acquired before the acquisition of the right. That's the limit of 18 years so it doesn't happen that actually the first thing that this guy does when he's 18 years old, or the first payday he does, is that the money goes to the executor. So only the property owned by the debtor at the time of execution of the execution will be penalized, and it must be the property acquired before the acquisition of full right. In other words, the nature of the child debt that exists changes, but it prevents a minor, as I have already said, from entering that adult age and life by actually starting to pay off his debt. I would divide the second age group into 15 years of age, where it is addressed and proposes a fundamental restriction on the possibility of imposing contractual fines and periodic penalty payments against minors who are just under 18 years of age. The experience is that the original principal is actually tiny, but it's accumulated by the various fines and periodic penalty payments, which, of course, are growing, and the moment it's being enforced by the person, it's already multiplied by the amount. The third age group that is addressed is 13 years old and solves so-called. Delicacy, or incompetence. This means that the new proposal is to introduce a dividing line just at the age of 13. The proposal is based - and here I would like to quote from the explanatory report - on the consideration that "the actions of younger children should be seen as a result of their education, in the case of very small children almost as an intervention of higher power." That's what we're experiencing with coronavirus now. The proposal states that the damage caused to a minor under the age of 13 will be replaced by the person who neglected to supervise the child, regardless of the child's fault. There are two exceptions. One is for the crimes of the nature of a deliberate crime. That means it's not absolute. And the second thing is when the damage is caused by a wealthy minor. This means that the proposal logically divides the responsibility of those children, or young people, just by age, depending on how qualified they are for certain legal actions, as I said, thirteen, fifteen, eighteen years old. And next time, if we approve it in a short period of time, it simply won't be possible what is today, that we have 3.5 thousand children in execution at this time. At this point, but, of course, it's tens of thousands of people, because it's always at some point, but as they get older and those people who were in child debt ten years ago, so they're adults, so they're tens of thousands, tens of thousands of people today who just went through those child debts. Since the accession of the ANO movement to the government, it has been dealing with the topic of enforcement, insolvency and consumer rights, consumer protection. By the way, we've got a second thing going on here today about the Energos. I consider this to be another very important part which leads to the cultivation of the environment, so that, for example, the period 2010 and before, it is absolutely incomparable. I will be happy to discuss this quickly, to approve that we do not really have in this, to continue to keep the world primary in terms of the number of child executions and the number of children in debt. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u11	Well, have a good evening. Mr Lukáš Kolářík will now speak in the general debate and Mr Marek Výborný will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll take it more briefly than a colleague, I won't go into the technical details of the press, because I'm sure anyone who's interested has studied that. We are pleased that we have here this government proposal, which basically responds to the parliamentary proposal that my colleagues and I have already tabled in 2019, and that we can solve this issue, which covers about 3 056 children in the Czech Republic in the age range of 0 to 15 years. It may seem like it's not a big number. However, it must be noted here that many of these children are adults now, and the debts they received as children have made it very difficult for them to start their lives and could not be applied as they could. In this context, it should be borne in mind that when I take this purely from the point of view of money, the Czech taxpayers cost money, because of course there are increased costs for them, whether in the form of courts, crime prevention or asylum houses, or by not graduating from a school as it could, so, of course, in those years afterwards, the citizen will not take as much money into the state budget to participate in the running of the Czech Republic. At the same time, it must also be realised that this number is not final, because at this point, of course, we have debts that have already been incurred by other children, but are not yet in this register because they have not yet touched it because of the process that must prevent them from getting into the correct box. That's another thing that the number can actually get higher. And there is clear evidence of this as well, which was last week on Czech Television, when it was clear how cheating the mother of a teenage girl complicated her life. It should be said that Czech legislation, as it is now set up, contributes to the emergence of these child debts, and therefore I am glad that the Ministry came up with this proposal and we can change it and make it happen. At the same time, I have to complain about the data we have at the moment because I've tried to get information from our courts about how many files they record on those child debtors and what they are, and those records are not working out, it's problematic and, if necessary, the courts are counting huge amounts to get the information back, so I'd like to make some sort of change in that register, so that we have a clear overview of what the executions are. And that doesn't just concern children's debts, but generally executions in general. The information of us politicians or ministries as such is simply not at a good level. So, to sum up, we'll support the pirát, of course, and we're glad we're dealing with this. We're glad we can figure this out. I hope we can move on. And I thank the petitioners for us, who have inspired themselves by the parliamentary proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u13	So, now, Mr Marek will perform Výborný, so far I have a final application for the general debate. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u14	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, I would like to present here the opinion of the KDU-ČSL MEP. It will not be surprising because the first House proposal that was tabled in April 2019 - today we have December 2020, so it will be almost two years - was signed by the chairman of our MP Jan Bartošek. We have long seen this as a practice that really makes us European freaks. I'm sorry about the word, but it's something that's actually hard to imagine. And I believe that Government Human Rights Commissioner Helena Válková, sitting in front of me, my colleague, would sign and confirm this. So it's a huge debt not only to this House and government, and I'm glad we can fix it quickly. Of course, I'm also a little sorry about how much time it takes us. We respected. [[18.40 hours]] I must say that we have discussed this parliamentary proposal on the subcommittee on the issue of enforcement, insolvency, debt relief repeatedly. We've organized a seminar or a round table, if I'm not mistaken, where the matter was discussed. That's where the incentive arose that it would be better for the Ministry of Justice to prepare a new solution to the whole issue of child debt and to destroy the senseless possibility of indebting children, and so it did. After the peripetia, which lasted almost a year, the proposal arrived in the House. I'm glad we're discussing him here today. From our point of view - and I do not want to repeat the substantive aspect of the proposal, the rapporteur said so, my colleague Patrik Nacher - indeed this is the way to make things right in the direction that the responsibility for children must be borne by legal representatives, parents, so that is quite normal. Perhaps the public watching us will wonder why Members are handling this here. I mean, it's something that's totally standard. Well, unfortunately, it isn't. And one thing didn't come up, and that's why I think it's important that it's included in the Civil Code. Unfortunately, although we already have the case-law of our courts and the Constitutional Court on this issue repeatedly, unfortunately, I feel that some judges, and now I will be critical of justice, are apparently not familiar with the case-law at all. Because if they met her, we wouldn't be able to witness those procedures, like, for example. At the District Court of Most. When you look, it's a case about 14 days old, when a 14-year-old girl, today 14-year-old, suddenly wears an execution for a debt that has been going on since she was two years old, her mom didn't pay the hospital regulatory fee for a two-year-old child, and this two-year-old child today stands before recovering the amount, if I'm not mistaken, about 14,000 crowns. Well, that's something wrong in the state of Denmark. Pardon me not to offend the Danes, in the state of Bohemia. I am glad that this step will also be resolved in the direction of the Czech courts. Finally, it was said here by the petitioner, I join in reducing the deadline for negotiations to 30 days, so that ideally at the next meeting, which will be at the end of January, we can negotiate the law within the second reading and then the third reading. I think it's important. As chairman of the subcommittee, I am prepared to discuss this also within the subcommittee and to give the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee in a timely manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u15	I have one factual point here, and it is Mrs Helena Válková. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u16	I'm gonna be so fast. I applied before Mr Marek the Výborný spoke to me indirectly. I like it. I have two reasons. I'm getting off now. First of all, I consider it a favorable signal, but also a sad memento. Beneficial in the sense that we are finally getting to the children's issue, which we are therefore trying in vain to open up, for example, to the Committee on the Protection of the Rights of the Child. Now I'm speaking a little bit more of a government agent than an MP. We keep saying how the custody system doesn't work, so we need to finally discuss the bill on the child Ombudsman. We need to change the approach of the courts, that is what has also been said here. By the way, we have an excellent judge in Most, who works very well in custody matters. Those are extremes. But it's unfavorable and sad that it's at the edge of the time availability itself, or respectively. The disposition we have is covered by a law that I hope will be approved, and I firmly believe it, but it could have been approved earlier. We really got there late. So, at the end, definitely shortening the deadlines. I am certainly glad that we are finally discussing this, and I would sign virtually everything that Marek said Výborný, rapporteur and, of course, Patrik Nacher, including the criticism that it took us a really long time to get to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u17	I will now look around the hall to see if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. Yes, Mrs Kateřina Valachová, and I don't see anyone else yet. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u18	Mr President, as I have announced, as rapporteur, I will propose a reduction in the deadlines. I will just complement my previous speakers, because you know that the House may not only meet next week, but it is not possible that it will meet between the holidays, between the Christmas holidays, and for this reason I believe that it is not entirely impossible to allow for a quicker discussion here of the ban on child debts, after all, a shortening of the time limits is a possibility where we can discuss the matter as quickly as possible. For this reason, as rapporteur, I would like to propose a reduction of the deadline to 10 days, and if this did not pass, then a reduction of the deadline to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u19	The time limit for the hearing shall be 60 days. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 can shorten the House by up to Such a period may not be reduced by more than 30 days if at least two Members' clubs or 50 Members object. That means, you can basically propose 30 days in real terms.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u20	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u21	Excuse me? About 30 days you can suggest. For 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u22	For 30 days and less...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u23	30 days and 30 days is finally the same.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u24	For 30 days. And a shorter deadline, Mr President, and you have read it correctly from the Rules of Procedure, can be brought in by two clubs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u25	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u26	For this reason, I believe that we can vote an even shorter time limit, but it is subject to veto. I made a suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u27	Yes, I understand that, too, so you're proposing for 10 days, and it's possible that someone here might be able to pay us a visit, two MPs or 50 MPs. Mr. Marek Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u28	Please, I'm not in the mood for anything. I'm just asking the House not to vote for this crap. Somebody please tell me when the ten-day deadline ends. I already have a really... Are we really going to meet here on December 29 or January 3 or January 5? What are we going to do here for a law that, frankly, has been here for two years? A year and a half were waiting for a government proposal, five months lying here in the Chamber of Deputies, and now we're going to be turmerizing that he needs 10 days. I ask everyone not to vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u29	Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u30	I take the liberty of calming my passions. Marek Benda did not hear the introduction through the President, and I deliberately mentioned that it is possible that we will meet not only next week, but we do not know how the tax package will continue to develop, that we can meet between the holidays, and for this reason, for this reason, I have proposed this deadline with this, and it is, of course, okay, that if it did not pass, it would suffice 30 days, because colleagues and colleagues, and please, please, attention, if it did not pass, indeed the 30 days are quite sufficient for the January meeting. But because it is not excluded that we are going to act, I have only created, as rapporteur, a space for us to be prepared. That's all. It's two suggestions, and I think they're both possible. But once again, by your means to Marek Benda, regarding the shorter proposal, it really concerned the readiness, the possibility, if the House were to sit down, because it is not impossible. But it's two proposals, and I think they're voteable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u31	Wait a minute, because Mr Lukáš Kolářík, Mr Kolářík, made a point of fact. Marek Výborný is logged in from the site, but thus the factual will get priority. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u32	Thank you. It's really just a colleague of Benda. If this is about preventing such atrocities as child's debts, I'll be there on December 24th.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u33	I didn't hear you over the drape. Was there a procedural proposal? He wasn't. So... yeah, you wanted to come to work. Sure. I'm begging you, I'm begging you, I'm begging you, I'm begging you, I'm begging you, I'm begging you, I'm begging you, I'm begging you, Mr. Marek Výborný. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u34	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I think that this is a rather serious matter that we are discussing, and I stress that this is an amendment to the Civil Code. And I would - I wouldn't veto anything at all, but I would really like to appeal to the fact that precisely because it's an amendment to the Civil Code, it really deserves the utmost attention. I'm sorry about the smurfing from the lawyer's mouth, because it really doesn't speed things up. [[18.50 hours]] I would like to stress that the Chamber of Deputies starts on 18 January in the plenary session. If we really want to discuss this proposal properly on the ground of the subcommittee and on the ground of the constitutionally-legal committee, let us cut short the deadline. Let's cut short the deadline as proposed by me, I think that was what the rapporteur said before, for 30 days, that's a good thing. This will really speed things up, in February it can be done in the Senate and the matter is resolved. But I'm stressing again that if we wanted to do this, we could have done it a long time ago. So let's cut the deadline to 30 days, but there's no point in speeding up the process at the expense of quality. That would be a mistake. And that's nothing to do with the fact that we don't want to deal with child debtors. No way. I think whoever listened to my performance heard it clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u35	I have two factual points here, and then it is registered from the post of Mrs Kateřina Valachová. So first, Mr Patrik Nacher will appear and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared. Your two minutes, then. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to call on a similar one as Marek Benda said. We originally designed this place as a parliamentary initiative a year and a half ago. That was number 456, look at that. This is 984. I'd just really stick to common sense. It's been here for a year and a half. It's been parked here for four months now. Let's vote on those 30 days because I can barely imagine in practice how we're going to discuss this between the holidays, now let's do some of the corona stuff. I don't like these gestures. Let's speed this up as fast as we can. But it's really like common sense to the hand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u37	Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will make a point of fact and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will prepare herself. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u38	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to ask the rapporteur about what she said with the tax package. Because if I'm not mistaken, between the president's veto - which is why the meeting between the holidays is supposed to be at risk - and the House's discussion is a ten-day deadline. That means if we discuss the tax package on the 22nd, it just doesn't work out for me that we'll meet here between the holidays. So I would like to suggest if he does not consider taking into account colleagues from the constitutional and legal committee, who will meet in some sense in order to reach a deadline, if he does not want to consider withdrawing the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u39	Mrs Kateřina Valachová is still registered, so she has room for action. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u40	Mr President, colleagues, I think that we are all following these last few weeks and we have the main objective of approving the ban on child debt as soon as possible. This led my proposal as well. But if I see this concern between Members and Members, I am also looking at the currently acting head of the club, through you, Roman Kubíček, I leave as rapporteur a proposal to shorten by 30 days. I hope we agree on that. I hope, colleagues - I look into your faces - that the gentlemen's agreement will apply that we will do so as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u41	Okay, so I'm cutting my ten days. I'll see if anyone else is joining the general debate. I don't see anyone, so I'm ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Madam Secretary, rapporteur? There's no interest. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see a suggestion. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 158, 92 Members registered, for 86, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? Anyone here? No. So we don't have any more suggestions. However, we are not finished with the vote, because here we also have the proposal by Mrs Kateřina Valachová, who was joined by Marek Výborný, to shorten the deadline for discussion to 30 days. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 159, 91 Members signed in for 82, versus 1. The motion was accepted. I'm done with the first reading of this proposal. [[Mr Kubíček is reporting.]] Member Roman Kubíček on behalf of the ANO club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm gonna respect the Grémium deal, and we're gonna start the Railroad Act, and we're gonna discuss it. Then we'd be done, because I don't think negotiations after 21 o'clock, given what's coming tomorrow, would be entirely optimal. So I propose that we discuss this point and end the negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-003-099.u43	I'm going to ask myself to the diaper because I deliberately got the exact thesis going, which was voted on basically the week before last, where we voted for the meeting after 19th and 21st hours. It said "at least to" points 16 and 99 when I quote it. So we've already discussed these points here, at least until... So here's Mr. Kubíček's proposal. I'm asking if anyone has a problem with that, that we end up with this point. I don't see the problem, so let's start and it's about
