ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u1	58. Government bill on waste / House print 676/ - first reading We started the debate on 29 January, and the general debate was interrupted. And I will ask - and so it has - that the Minister of the Environment take his place at the table of ministers Richard Brabec and the rapporteur for the first reading... [[Member Pekar Adam reporting.]] The show? Madame, on the show? Please, with priority rights, you can. Will I open the debate? Okay. We will continue the debate. And with the right of priority, Madame... Wait a minute. [[Conjecture off the microphone.]] Yes, in the general debate... Before I launch the debate, Mrs Pekarová Adamová's priority right. Please, with priority rights before we continue the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u2	Mr. Chairman, you're a little distracted today. Not only did we start late - but I think Mrs. Černochová should take precedence after all. [[I'm sorry, this is the President of the Election Commission talking to me.]] The honourable Member has interrupted her contribution. And I'd be happy to leave her some space in this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u3	Of course, I have to honor Section 67 on preferential rights, but if you agree, I am glad. [[There's noise in the room.]] But not on this point, Madame. You haven't spoken to the priori... Let's not argue. You have your word. Relax, let's keep going.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u4	Mr President, I have spoken with priority rights, I have priority rights, and the debate has been interrupted before the end of the day, so I have the right to speak now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u5	Please continue, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u6	The Minister is present. Isn't the rapporteur present?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u7	We're at first reading, if I remember correctly, we were changing the newsletters back then. Isn't that right? [[Informal briefing.]] But we still have our first reading. If the MP is here, please take his place. And for second reading, we can change the newsletters. Otherwise, we'd have to vote again. The House would have to decide. We have our first reading. I suggest that it is easier to continue with the same rapporteur in the first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u8	Thank you. I wanted to ask that we keep it down a bit, Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, if we could honor the silence of Mr Luboš Dobrovský, who died yesterday and who was an important politician of Czechoslovakia, the Czech Republic. He was Minister of Defence of Czechoslovakia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u9	If no one's objecting to the procedure, I'm asking for a minute of silence. [[The present stand and hold a minute's silence.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u10	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Now let me continue with my Wednesday performance. I was talking about fees. I talked about the fact that experts agree that an increase in fees is necessary, but how the Ministry of the Environment came to the amount of the fee of CZK 1,850 when in Slovakia they had enough CZK 1,200, as well as branch associations of municipal and municipal companies, so-called. The Association of Public Services and the Association of Municipal Services says that CZK 1,200 is the amount at which the waste is clearly diverted from the landfills and that the higher amounts of the municipalities cannot afford and are unnecessary. [[9.10 hours]] In November 2018, representatives of energy companies in the Mladá fronta articles announced today that they needed a fee of at least CZK 1,500 to build new incinerators. The names of their articles already indicate their names. Quote: The new fee will change waste management. Green gets a full burn. Or: The trend burns people up the fees for waste, says the head of the shipping company. You know, for municipalities and cities, this is not the most advantageous price, in addition, in a situation where the European Union has repeatedly stated that it will no longer support the incineration plants for bulk waste, and it promotes a way of sorting and recycling, for which it has also set binding targets, that is to recycle at least 65 percent of municipal waste in 2035. Yes, the European Union recommends an increase in fees so that the target of diversion of waste from landfills is met. The experts therefore say that in the conditions of the Czech Republic this will secure a fee of CZK 1,200. So why did the Ministry of the Environment not set a fee according to the interest of municipalities and cities, but rather according to the interests and obligations of investors in the incinerators? At the same time, the European Union warns about the transfer of waste from landfills to the capacity of new incinerators to bulk waste. Minister Brabec knows. Nor did the European Commission allow him to grant subsidies to new incinerators in the Czech Republic, and that he was personally involved in this in Brussels several times. After all, the European Union obliges states to sort, reduce as much mixed waste as possible and recycle the sorted raw materials. Setting up the law doesn't make much sense in relation to the current European objectives. What exactly do you want to support the final recycling, Minister? What tools do you have to make sure that waste doesn't end up in incinerators instead of recycling? The law really doesn't make that clear. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not an expert on waste, I'll never be one, I don't have this ambition. I am a long-term municipal politician, so when this legislation appeared in the system that we are going to discuss it, I consulted people who are dealing with municipal waste, and indeed, this law, or this package of laws, has a huge negative impact on the communal. Prices will be significantly increased. I would therefore like to ask all the local politicians present in the Chamber of Deputies to do this in the same way as I did in order to discuss this in their regions with the people who are experts on this subject so that we do not actually do something that will be an irreversible mistake. We need new legislation, and we will support it as citizens' democrats. The Vice-President of our Gardener Club will have an opinion on this for our club. I'm just pointing out the things that really touch us at the town halls, at the neighborhoods, at the towns. I very much appreciate the activities that Mrs Krutáková has done in this matter, and I would like to - I am sure she will invite you too, but I will say this at the outset, so that we do not accidentally forget this - for all those interested, Mrs Krutáková held a seminar called for the necessary instruments to support sorting and final recycling, which is held on 4 February 2020 in the Chamber of Deputies in A106. It's 9:00 a.m. and come listen to all the arguments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u11	Thank you. Real comment - Ondřej Veselý.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to follow up on my colleague, Černochová. It is clear that we cannot do without this legislation. I am glad that there has been some shift in time with the fact that we will not be able or able to store waste in the country under very limited conditions, but we must also say what to do with it. Of course, we can sort something out, we'll definitely support sorting, but we all know that without the equipment for energy recovery - we all know the shortcut ZEVO - it's just not going to work with us, and there are very few of them. This means, therefore, that from my side appeal either to the Minister or to the Government in general, in order to support the creation of these facilities in the period that awaits us, that is, for the ten years, and the State must clearly support the establishment of these facilities. We can't do without them. Those facilities, I know that people see incinerators in this and they are terrified of it, but just visit Switzerland, for example, where small incinerators, small ZEVO, are basically in every city, they are common and they are in construction and it doesn't hurt anything, and it is the support of both financial and let's say awareness-raising to the origin of ZEVO that will be very necessary, and if the government helps municipalities and regions with this, the impact may not be as drastic as the colleague describes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u13	Thank you. I'll read a few apologies. Mrs Květa Matušovská apologizes from 9 o'clock to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mr Hnilička apologizes between 945 and 11 o'clock for work reasons and Mr Pavel Bělobrádek apologizes today from 12 o'clock to the end of the meeting for work reasons. With priority rights, President Pekarová, Adamová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to comment very briefly on this necessary amendment for TOP 09. I certainly welcome the fact that the amendment to the Waste Act is prepared and presented by the Ministry, and I see its importance. This law should deal meaningfully with one of the most problematic and risky parts of our way of life. Our consumption is growing, it is huge, and it also corresponds, of course, to the production of waste, which is also increasing every year. We all now know that waste is also a raw material, so it is not only negative, but, of course, it can also be used from a positive point of view. We can either bury this raw material under the ground, burn it, or best sort and re-use it and really use it. For me, it is a huge disappointment that the Minister has actually decided to continue this amendment six years longer in burying under the ground, that the landfill from which all reasonable countries withdraw, which is trying to eliminate them very quickly, is where he gets the green light. So he decided that it was right, and against the current adjustment, which is much more ambitious in this than what is proposed to us, we will bury the waste under the ground for the next six years. It seems to me an incredible paradox that such a suggestion is made by a state body that is primarily meant to honor nature conservation. I therefore advise that we do not want to accept this part of the amendment, with an extension of landfilling, and we propose that the current term ban on landfilling be maintained, the current milestone, and not the extension of the possibility of landfilling for a long six years. This amendment is already being announced here, because it is absolutely essential for us in this otherwise very extensive amendment to the Waste Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u15	Thank you, too. Next for the debate is Mr Elfmark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, I would just like to start by summing up what the circulation package is, because we started Wednesday in the late afternoon. So we have four laws ahead of us. Those laws concern the Waste Act, the Act on selected end-of-life products, the Act on Packaging and the so-called Amendment Act. If you'd like to look at the website The Department of the Environment, there's a quote I'd like to read and quote right now. "New legislation should bring a pan-European trend to the Czech Republic to increase the recycling of municipal waste, and the Czech Republic should finally embark on the path to a circular economy." And I'm asking if that's how it's gonna be. If we really recycle the Czech Republic. [[9.20 hours]] If we look at the present Waste Act, the Government has approved and sent a long-awaited draft Waste Act to the House of Deputies for discussion. According to Europe-wide consensus, new legislation should ensure that European countries use waste primarily as secondary raw materials. However, the government proposes to bury easily compostable waste at landfills for another ten years until 2030. Throughout the European Union, it has been prohibited for 20 years to deposit waste on landfills without prior treatment, and the Czech Republic is threatened with sanctions of over CZK 60 million each year. And I'm asking, and I'm asking, do we think that's right? The draft Waste Act brings an increase in landfill fees and includes an incentive discount for municipalities that will increase sorting. For that I am very glad that the law contains this formula, and it certainly is motivational for the municipalities. However, contrary to European legislation, it proposes to continue landfilling recyclable and compostable waste until 2030. Each year, up to 2.5 million tons of waste will end up in landfills, of which up to a million tons are easily compostable. These are mostly biodegradable municipal waste. According to the government's proposal, this means that about 10 million tons of waste, from which about 10 million tonnes of CO equivalent will leak into the air without control, will end up in landfills, more than all air transport throughout the Czech Republic over a given period. That's why we need to ask ourselves another question, if that's what we really want. At the same time, both investors and technologies are available to ensure the end of landfilling of millions of tons of biodegradable waste as early as 2024. However, Minister Brabc's proposed inappropriate conditions discourage investors. Although the government has proposed an extension of the deadline for landfilling, it at least proposes an increase in the landfill fee and complements it with a sorting discount. Municipalities that sort out a large part of their waste can save on the landfill fee thanks to the sorting discount. It is good that it has also managed to enforce the obligation of companies to provide biowaste sorting facilities at the headquarters and premises. Personally, I think that biowaste as a component still has very large gaps in sorting. On the other hand, the bill does not yet contain a fee for the incineration of mixed municipal waste, the introduction of which is recommended by the European Commission and the OECD. The Act also contains no measures to promote real recycling, e.g. improving the disposal of products from recycling or increasing primary raw materials in order to make real use of the material in the finals and not only to sort them out. It has to be said that sorting is definitely not equivalent to recycling. If I were to sum up the positives and the negatives of this law, as I perceive them, as well as the higher landfill fee with a sorting discount, the plus includes the obligation to sort biowaste in companies as well, but again I have to say minus things, and that is to postpone the end of landfilling of composted waste by six years to 2030, ban landfilling for waste according to the calorific value parameter, which is not required by European legislation and which inevitably leads to excess capacity of combustion plants. As a minus, I take the absence of the combustion fee recommended by the OECD and the European Commission, the absence of support for real recycling. The targets of the directive are for recycling, not sorting, just sorting won't help us. If we sort out the ingredients, we don't actually recycle them. Finally, I would like to propose an extension of the negotiation of this law in committees by 20 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u17	Thank you. Mr. Jan Zahradník will be next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would, of course, first say the ODS's framework position on this law. The ODS welcomes the fact that the Ministry finally passed laws to the House to address the situation in waste management in our country, which would have made this economy appropriate to the conditions of the 21st century. Which of you ladies and gentlemen would be interested in the current situation in the waste management in the Czech Republic, so I can refer to the environmental report issued by the government every year. This year, therefore, this report is comprehensive and concerns 2018, where a relatively significant chapter is devoted to waste management. The initial overview of our waste management standards shows that we have a total of 16 standards that, whether European or national, affect waste management in some way. Their list, therefore, slowly covers almost two-and-a-half, almost three pages in the text, along with the fundamental aspects on which these legislative standards work. Of course, the basic data is an overview of the composition of waste production - 62.7 % are construction and demolition waste, 14.9 % municipal waste, waste from waste treatment plants 7.6 %, from thermal processes it is 4.2 %, waste packaging 3.3 %, other 6,7 %. The total production is increasing in our country, since 2009 there has been an increase of 17,1%. An important indicator of this report is also total waste production per capita, which amounted to 3 555,7 kg per capita in 2018 and increased by 480 kg per capita in 2009 compared to the period 2009 and the annual increase between 2017 and 2018 is 296. As far as waste management is concerned, here it really needs to be said, and colleague Elfmark has already reminded us that there is a problem between actually four ways to dispose of the waste: landfilling, which, of course, is a matter of discussion, and it is, let's say, the easiest way to get rid of the waste; it is its energy use, i.e. a relatively not completely intricate thing, to transform it into a certain incinerated product and then use it for thermal energy in some waste energy recovery facility; it's its recycling, its transformation into some other product, some other raw material; and finally, it's the fourth way to just resist the creation of waste, just not to create waste at all. Each of these ways has some proponents, some opponents, some of those ways have a simpler solution. It appears that an increase in the fee is the way to reduce waste storage in landfills. It seems that the way to increase recycling is to increase the level of sorting, but also to support products that are created by recycling. [[9.30 hours]] Perhaps it would be interesting if we looked at what it says about waste management, a document that is moving Europe relatively now in recent days, and I think it was mentioned here yesterday during the interpelations. It's the Green Agreement for Europe. The Green Agreement for Europe, here I pulled out two pages of it, dedicated to waste in its section 2.1.3. And the name is characteristic: Activization of the industry for a clean circulation economy. So the first signal that the European Commission gives us in its dreams for the future is that it wants to go to a complete circular economy, a circular economy that does not produce any waste. Yet, a long, thousand - year - old, ten thousand - year - old experience simply says that an organism that does not produce waste will perish. So how does the European Union want to achieve a complete circular economy? Here are some instructions. In order to achieve a climate neutral circular economy, the European Union requires full industrial mobilisation. So they're building a foundation on industry. And that's the first interesting thing. It calls for this without delay, so that we are ready for that carbon-free Europe in 2050, so we need to start right now. The material indicates that only 12 percent of the materials used by industry today come from recycling. It also points out here that the transition to a purely circular economy is an impulse to create jobs. Of course, nothing against it, I think it may also be partly true. The Commission is planning to adopt an industrial strategy of the European Union in March 2020, which should address a double challenge: green transformation and digital transformation. So we will now be interested in the green transformation, which will result in a new action plan for the circular economy in this area. That would almost freeze your back. Once again, some action plan, some dramatic targets that the Union wants to set itself. It wants to modernise the European Union's economy and take advantage of the opportunities given to the circular economy at home and at global level. Energy-intensive industries, i.e. the steel industry or the production of chemical products and cement, are to become leaders in this decarbonization and modernization, so that it is wasteless. The action plan will include a sustainable product policy. This policy will give priority to reducing the volume of materials and their reuse even before their recycling occurs. It will promote new business models and lay down minimum requirements to prevent products harmful to the environment from accessing the European Union market. The action plan for the circular economy will guide transformation in all sectors, but it will focus in particular on those which are the most demanding in terms of resources, namely the textile, construction, electronics and plastics sectors. The Commission shall focus on the objective against deliberately added microplastics and the unintentional release of plastics. The Commission shall develop requirements to ensure that all packaging - all packaging - will be re-usable, re-usable or economically recyclable on the European Union market by 2030. It will develop a regulatory framework for biodegradable plastics. The action plan will also include measures designed to encourage businesses to offer and allow consumers to choose re-usable, durable and repairable products. An analysis will be carried out on the need for the right to correct and limit planned obsolete products. Scheduled outdated products. That's what it's called. Some component that will cause the product to be destroyed after the warranty period and the consumer will have to buy a new one. Let's just imagine what a sudden transition to this dream path will mean nowadays. I just don't know which one of us motorists can change a light bulb today. Like 40 years ago, I knew how to do it on the 105 glove box. Maybe I was setting up foreplay at the time, changing brake pads, and then I was driving my kids in that car. I can't imagine today, even that mechanic can't fix a component. He removes it, goes to the warehouse, takes a new one and replaces it with that new part. So are the cell phones that 90 percent of you are using right now, reading the Internet. I had a cell phone that when he collapsed, so I removed the battery, he somehow rebooted, I put it back in, and the phone worked. I don't even know how I'd get that battery in that sealed, closed cell phone. In my opinion, the idea of a 100% circular economy is very dangerous, and it is one of the ideas that the European Union is supplying us and that can bring enormous problems to our economy, to our people's lives. So I'm gonna mention something else. The policy on sustainable products is also intended to contribute to a substantial reduction in the volume of waste. Yeah, well, if something keeps going on, like our ancestors used to do, like it's still in some cars until today, obviously they won't become the garbage, the car wreck that solves one of the other three laws that awaits us. So we're gonna fix these cars? We will repair the old diesels, but the European Union will not allow us to drive the diesels on the road again by any other regulation. So they'll be repairable products, we'll fix them, but we won't be allowed to use them. There. The left hand doesn't know what the right hand does. And this is quite a common phenomenon in the case of the European Union. There's not a word here about the Green Agreement for Europe, the part of it that I chose here as a waste part, not a word about how people will have to respond to these European planners' plans. There's talk of how to adapt to industry. And for industry, they have unprecedented leverage, of course, regulation, fines. Eventually, today, the liquidation of the European automotive industry begins slowly with the pressure on electric cars. Each company has to meet its emission limits. Of course, the cars on diesel or petrol have some emissions, although relatively low and reasonable, but the electric car, the electric car is considered a zero-emission vehicle - and that the energy is produced somewhere next to the power plant, it doesn't matter to the legislators. These are the contradictions that we need to draw attention to and be aware of. [[9.40 hours]] Likewise, in that green agreement, in that part, it says nothing that part of the waste could be used energyally, which is logical. Those wastes that have a certain calorific value could simply be converted into thermal energy. Today, of course, the European Union has embarked on the way of closing coal power plants, thus closing coal mines, destroying the entire coal industry, which, of course, is an extremely important and important decision. Germany has recently taken this decision, which by 2038 they want to do without coal. But the resources, as you can see, won't be enough for them. I have a very detailed analysis prepared, which unfortunately I do not have the opportunity to make here, because the Prime Minister does not go to written interpelations, and I have just created the material here, which shows all these mistakes that the European Union intends to make. So watch it. The intentions of the European Union written in the Green Agreement for Europe, Green New Deal, are such that our legal environment simply will not be enough. We are unable to create a 100% circular economy. This is simply not possible, in my opinion and in principle. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm aware of the problems, I'm aware of the different pressures we're all under. I think we need to be reasonable here. I've already said once that I welcome the fact that the Ministry has prepared this law. I have recommended to Members for the Civil Democratic Party not to prevent the release for second reading. Of course, at second reading, we will try to correct some of the things that we think are wrong in the law. I know that this is the most frequently mentioned one, namely the deadline for the end of the landfill, which changes from 2024 to 2030. All I'm saying is that five years ago, I don't know, maybe I warned you about this microphone before the 2024 term. I told you our communities weren't ready to end up landfilling this early. There's just no capacity, there's nothing to do with the garbage. We can sort it out beautifully, we're really good at it, that's what the Čech are good at. It belongs to certain, I would say, new such cultural customs in families to sort waste, then take it to a designated place in those different bins. And the sorting material then comes to those places where it is processed or even further sorted. But unfortunately, now that our foreign customers have dropped out, part of the sorted waste just ends up in the dump. They sort themselves out, wrap themselves in nice packages, and unfortunately, the packages will go away and throw themselves in the dump. So if we want to move forward in this regard, I agree to motivate the recycling, which I think will be good, perhaps by supporting in the selection process those companies that will be able to put some of the recycled waste into their products. It is also difficult for us to build new facilities for the energy recovery of waste. It's just a device, it's a thing that's quite suspicious among the population. Basically environmental guardians, all environmental activists always go against the new idea, file lawsuits, try to prevent it from being built. In my opinion, once again, this is the way we must go. The necessary part of the waste that is suitable for this is to be used energyally in the relevant facilities and thus to adjust the conditions for building up the waste energy recovery facility. The law itself is a law that has passed, as I said before, with quite a lot of problems. I think the government pulled him off the program, Mr. Secretary. You put it back sometime in the fall. There were, I don't know, about 3,000 comments, if not more. It went through with a lot of contradictions. It went through with a lot of contradictions... I counted about twenty of the contradictions that... [[It shall be consulted by written documents.]] Here we go. Yes, twenty, this is our report, twenty institutions that have filed a contradiction. There are 32 main topics that have been brought to this law as a contradiction. The press meeting wasn't easy. So I would like to sum up in conclusion, we will support the shift to second reading. And our opinion is that we will support the introduction of a circular economy in the Czech Republic, but we want us to follow common sense and to maintain the competitiveness of Czech companies. We will also defend, even in this law, the introduction of stricter rules for Czech citizens and companies and the setting of earlier deadlines for various restrictions than we are required of the European Union. That's the gold-plating that somebody mentioned. So you need to be careful about that. I looked only at the Packaging Act, and again I see that the recycling limits are almost close to what the Union is setting itself as its target in 2050. It is not 100 per cent, but 85 per cent there simply, Minister, you have the recycled packaging, which I think we are beyond the European Union again, and it is the typical example of the gold-plating that we have to defend ourselves with. We will try to maintain the opportunity for entrepreneurs and businessmen to choose without limitation to whom they will pass on their business waste and, on the contrary, we will strongly reject its mandatory integration into municipal systems of cities and municipalities. It is in the law, but we may fear that some amendments will try to turn it into a compulsory model, where it will be an obligation to pass it on to municipal systems. We will prevent or try to prevent the transfer of other financial obligations to entrepreneurs because of the unwillingness of the national authorities to carry out their duties. So keep the taxpayer's principle, the payer's charge collection. And we do not want the producer to accept any principle of responsibility, as is the case with VAT today, when entrepreneurs are actually being prosecuted by the tax office very, very uncompromisingly. Finally, as I have already said, we will support such tools to strengthen recycling in addition to a reasonable increase in landfill fees. I say a reasonable increase in fees. The question of whether a compromise between the deadline for ending landfilling 2024 and the deadline for 2030 is possible is a big question. František Elfmark mentioned that they would not support 2030. I hear in my neighborhood it's reasonable. I think that's wise, too. If a compromise is needed, not only the representatives of the lobbyist groups, but also the communities that are divided into two species, must be talked to. Some municipalities have a landfill, run it, and benefit from what it offers them in the form of those fees. There are municipalities that do not have landfills and, on the contrary, they must pay to those municipalities equipped with landfills. So here we need to be very sensitive, sensitive and how to determine the fees, even the bonification for sorting to be very, very reasonable and cautious. So we're ready to talk about it. At second reading, we will put forward our amendments and look forward to discussing the next stages. I'm going to get off to the other laws, but not so far, I think, the things are pretty obvious. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u19	Thank you. A few more apologies. In addition, an apology came in that Mr Ferjenčík apologized between 9.00 and 9.15 for personal reasons. Mr Pavel Blažek apologizes for health reasons for the whole day; he apologizes for today's meeting of Mrs Pavla Golasowská from 13:30 on personal grounds; Mr Dolínek apologizes for today's meeting until 12:00 on work grounds; Mr Radek Holomčík apologises between 9:00 and 12:00 for health reasons. And that's it. Another is entered in the debate by Mrs Krutáková. I see. [[Here comes MP Adamec.]] Then the Member will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u20	Mr President, Madam Secretary, Ministers, colleagues, colleagues, I am not a colleague of Mr Krutáková. That's right, first reality. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a few words about the draft waste law. I have to start by saying that I don't do this often to perform on environmental issues, but waste was business, business and business. It's just reality. And then, of course, we have different visionaries who call us visions here, we should, but then we have to see what reality is. I say that the task of this legislative process will now be to reconcile visions with reality. And when I say that waste is a business, I wouldn't want end-users, municipalities and especially their citizens to pay for it, because I think we're going to have at least 15 years of major change. I think this is quite a breakthrough in this sector of human activity, and it is necessary to say and disprove a few myths. You know, here when we were always dealing with waste, there was a dispute between those who dump, and those who burn, and everyone said advantages, disadvantages. In the end, we know, and there's no point in discussing it any further. Otherwise, I have to say, I'm in a conflict of interest here, because there's a big dump in our community, and it's business, I'm not covering it up for the community. But on the other hand, I understand. We're moving forward, I'd say, at the level of our society, somewhere else. I think we need to say visions, but I repeat, we need to reconcile them with reality. In my opinion, the European Union is correctly leaving the combustion to separate and subsequently recycling. I think that's the right direction. Except all of you who are in the local authorities are municipal politicians, you know what the problem is today, because citizens are separating, and even very well, and I would say that in the European Union, we are almost above average. I know our city is one of those that has the lowest proportion of residual municipal waste per capita. We're just good at separating. I think it's a modern trend and it's the right trend, but it has to be said again but. What are we gonna do with this separation? You know, there was a time when China took PET bottles. They don't need it anymore. They're somewhere else and now what to do with it. Because all of us in this sector know that we have to pay for these separates, that we no longer receive money for them. That means we support our citizens economically and environmentally, to separate, and on the other hand, we are being punished because no one is interested in the separation, and if already, then for, I would say, very hard money. Therefore, I also welcome the compromise proposal that fell here for 2030 on landfills, because it is really not easy, from day to day, 2024 is in a moment from the point of view of human life, it will come very quickly, and it is necessary to adapt society, industry and actually our citizens to the fact that the system will look different, and the question of how it will be, so it is the subject of our negotiations. When I was talking about the endless fight of the landfillers with the burners, today it's moving on. Today the fight is between separation and subsequent recycling and burners. I'm going to say one thought here, which, of course, can be refuted, to say that there are percentages, but if you recycle, I'm going to ask, is it going to burn? Probably a little bit, but it won't be a miracle, because most, says 65 percent, should be recycled, part ends up as incinerated waste and part should be burned. I found some kind of incinerator coefficient here, whatever they say. I think there's a little bit of an injury here. And what made me a little unsettling, because I would like to talk about those parameters at the committee meeting, a little unsure about the support of the separation and the attitude of the incinerators to these problems, because I have noticed that there is an interest in the business lobby to build new incinerators. And they wouldn't just do it if they had nothing to burn. I feel like in this bill proposal, we need to look at the parameters of promoting recycling and possibly punishing who doesn't do it, because there's no way that waste ends up in the incinerators and we said it's okay. It's not okay. So motivation for municipalities, clearly motivation for citizens, and trying not to cost the system unnecessarily. I'm just worried that vision is a beautiful thing, our ideas are good and we can discuss them, but on the other hand, it has to be said that every joke costs something, as the people say. And if today our citizens are used to paying a fee, and somewhere with the support of the community, somewhere not, then it must be said that the environment, environmental care is, of course, an expensive thing. To the end of the landfill. There hasn't been one more thing. The landfill fee is going up by 2030. So here's the negative motivation for not putting in the dumps. So let's not say it's just that nothing happens by 2030, and it's gonna go down a hundred and six. It won't be, because it's gonna be expensive. It's gonna be expensive for most communities. Let's just say that this discussion really shouldn't be about whether landfills or incinerators, but incinerators versus separation and recycling. What my colleague Honza Zahradník said about the circular economy is a nice vision, it's fiction. It's never possible without certain waste. I'm a realist. But on the other hand, it has to be said that also manufacturers of those products, and we are a consumer society, we want those products, they will have to make packaging from other materials. Let's face it. It has to be, and it has to go hand in hand. I must say that, in accordance with the conviction of our club, we will support the process of going through this bill into second reading, and I have a great request for everyone in the hall to support the release of all four laws into the Economic Committee, because what it is about besides environmental visions, so it is mainly about money. Like I said, the waste was business, they're business and they stay business. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u21	Thank you. Now, Mrs Krutáková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not comment on the specific points and shortcomings which are in our submitted waste legislation and which have been mentioned here by my previous speakers before me. But I'd like to focus on one problem. We have committed ourselves to increasing the share of recycling, but unfortunately the legislation presented does not correspond to this objective at all. The government's proposal completely lacks tools to support recycling. Believe me, throwing a PET bottle into a yellow container certainly doesn't mean automatic recycling. The Minister was offered assistance a year ago by means of an open letter from municipalities and trade organisations and associations aimed at helping to set real targets for recycling. Unfortunately, this letter remained unanswered. For over a year, in response to the upcoming amendment, I have led the professional group RecHelp, which has set out to define these effective tools. Together, we have reached 11 points, which would need to be implemented into our right after the debate, and thus begin to recycle. I would like to invite you to a seminar held on 4 February from 9 pm here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies and where it will be possible to discuss and participate in this issue. I hope that your interest will be and that you will attend this seminar. On behalf of the Mayors and Independents movement, I would like to say that we will support the release of this law, and not only this law, but also the other three follow-up, waste package, to second reading and we are ready to actively proceed to solving problematic points, and we will certainly be making several amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u23	Thank you. Mr Munzar will now appear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. I want to discuss a moment in my speech one of the aspects of the law that the Minister himself mentioned in his opening speech, and that is the solution to black landfills. I understand that none of us want black dumps and it's very hard to find a meaningful and effective solution. But as the system is designed in this novel, from my point of view, it is another transfer of responsibility for black landfills to landowners. Thus, this amendment seeks to make landowners responsible for the negative activities of others and, where appropriate, punishing for the negative phenomena that they have not caused themselves. In my opinion, the Ministry of the Environment needs to do a little bit of pointing out that it solved the black dumps and left the black Petr on the property owners. I want to say that, rightly speaking today, according to the Municipalities Act, a person who owns or uses - and this is an important word in the Municipalities Act - uses the land to keep the land clean and clean if it affects the appearance of the municipality. However, this is not enough for the Ministry and comes with other obligations only for owners. This is not just an obligation to remove a black landfill under the threat of fines. Yes, although there is an early detection of the source of the waste, one of my questions about the Minister is what the success of today's detection of the true agents of black landfills is. I do not know such statistics, but I guess it will not be a very high percentage, which is why I rightly believe that in most cases this obligation will fall on the owners. The new obligation for owners is that they must report the black landfill themselves. I wonder why the Ministry didn't even deal with the fact that the owner doesn't have to manage the land and, if necessary, visit it often at the same time. Especially in agriculture, for example, owners are often just scoundrels who own a strip of land here and there, and they actually manage scoundrels. And often such a plumber has only a minimum income from the scent, yet the obligation to solve black landfills is being imposed on it. And the other obligation that the Ministry of the Environment comes up with is to secure the property against another shipment of waste. And how are we going to do that? That's my next question to the Minister. Black landfills are often created outside of construction, along roads, in forests, in meadows, in fields. So what's the security? Are those owners supposed to fence them? Well, that seems unrealistic to me. It is literally stated in the draft amendment that the municipal authority of the municipality may impose on the owner of the plot to ensure, at his own expense, the location of the illegally concentrated waste against another shipment of waste. In the explanatory memorandum, the Ministry mentions this and also writes about the signs of the Prohibition of Landfill. But really, Minister, will there be a sign in real practice that says "No landfilling" means securing the property against another shipment of waste? Will it really be in practice if the text of the law states: security against further shipments of waste? And what happens if the sign doesn't help? In such a case, the extended municipality, in my opinion, will continue to call on this paragraph to ensure that the owner more secures the plot against the introduction of additional waste. So I really don't know how real this is in practice. Black Petr was acquired by owners and, in addition to the owners of another black Peter, the municipalities were given extended scope. Because according to the law in the existing municipalities that I mentioned here, it is a matter between the particular municipality and the owner of the land in its territory. [[Hers?]] Whereas in this amendment, municipalities are given new responsibilities and new tasks to deal with black landfills. So see how many new agendas and actions there are that they will have to perform not only in the territory of their community, but in their entire administrative district. So, for example, the Department of Environment in Kladno will have to deal with a black landfill somewhere in the woods in Lany. I fear that the municipalities with extended powers receive these new responsibilities and tasks, but without any additional money to deal with these agendas. And they will pay the budgets of these very municipalities. Therefore, I fear that such a wording of the paragraphs and sentences in the amendment to the law that a community with extended scope can itself remove a black landfill is not real, either, for one simple reason. This would be done at the expense of the budget of the particular municipality with extended scope. And all the representatives who are also Members ask yourself whether you would agree to take money from your community's budget and to solve problems in another community. I don't think this construction can work very well in real practice. That is why I want to ask you what is the lack of regulation of the municipal law, when it is an offence, how it will work in reality throughout the practice. As I was saying in the beginning, none of us want black dumps, it bothers each of us, but I don't like the one-sided approach to just leave it on those landowners who aren't really responsible in many cases. Someone's just gonna dump their trash truck in there, create a black dump, and now it's all gonna be up to them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u25	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. Let's keep going. That was Mr Vojtěch Munzar's speech. And before I give the floor to Mr Václav Klaus, I state two apologies received from the House meeting, namely Tomáš Kohoutek from 10 to 14 a.m. and Věra Kovářová from 9 to 11 a.m. Now, therefore, with his speech in the debate, Mr Václav Klaus. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express the opinion of the Tricolore on this waste law. Honestly, I have to say that 99 percent of our environmental expert Jiří Mánek, and of course, in order for our experts not to be offended, it must then appear in the screen record that I partly said their position. We are very strongly in favour of nature conservation and waste is one of the biggest problems we face on the subject of nature protection. It is clear that this law also moves on the border of lobbying three strong groups, it is lobbying landfills, burners and recyclators. And now for the matter of the law itself. The law contains an incredible number of theoretical variants that can occur in waste management and waste prevention, including details currently regulated by implementing legislation. The proposal is so disproportionately extensive and inconspicuous, incomprehensible and confusing in its form. The Waste Act should be anchored in the legal environment in waste management rather than bringing to it a number of theories, question marks and uncertainties. What the law directly senses is the extreme pressure to recycle. Recycling has become a religion, its result will be expensive recycling of basically everything, recycling will no longer be waste, the word waste disappears. But this does not mean that someone will really use it as a raw material in a secondary manner, because it is not clear that there will be interest in recycling of all kinds and whether their use will be technically feasible and especially economically meaningful. So we're going to have new recycling dumps besides waste dumps, which probably won't even burn for legislative reasons. And if you do, it's gonna be a very expensive heater. [[10.10 hours]] Among other things, the Act provides for a gradual increase in the fees for landfilling of usable waste, which should reach CZK 1,850 per tonne in 2029, which is three times today. In this context, I would like to point out that the exact opposite of the interests of the petitioners may arise because, of course, the rising cost of waste will be evacuated in a certain type of black landfill and very nasty waste management. And I say this as a person who recycles almost everything, even though the nearest collection points are 4 kilometers and 200 height meters away from my home. The law is so extensive that only a person who moves daily in the practice of waste, which is particularly widespread communities, is relevant to the comments. The rest of us can hardly try to read between the lines, what lies behind the culinaries, tricks and things that are hard to deal with in the future. What is clear is the increase in administrative burden and the transfer of the increase in fees to natural persons and institutions such as municipalities, cities and regions. The problem is serious. We're not making it easy. That is why we do not want to veto this law. We don't even have enough votes. But we have to say that the basis of everything is not to create waste primarily. Buy Czech products. Buy local products. And then you also notice a new phenomenon that more and more people buy by clicking on the Internet from the other side of the world, they buy this kind of pidi midi product with a packaging that weighs a kilo and is three-quarters of a meter when you break it down. [[shows]] [[shows again]] We also see in the world finally exports of these so-called divisions to poor countries, where they end up swinging into the sea. You've probably read the Australian case that exported recycled waste, sold it, now I don't know which of the poorer countries out there somewhere in the Indian Ocean, who cashed in the money and then threw it into the sea, and then, of course, it's an environmental disaster. So we'll be watching very closely. We will have a number of amendments which concern, in particular, those nonsensical § 14, § 15 para. 2 (b) and others. And we would like to maintain rationality in this matter again. So we acknowledge, we don't minimize the problem. Waste is a serious matter, but it must not be dealt with in this ideological way contrary to reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u27	I thank Mr Václav Klaus. Now, Mr Petr Bendl's factual remark, which is the last one to be entered in the debate at the moment, even if only with a factual point. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u28	Thank you. I'm going to use factual notes because I want to be short. Everything important was said by my colleague Zahradník, Adamec or colleague Černochová. But when I listened to my colleague Vojta Munzar, I have to support him in what he argued here about how it works today in practice. Black landfill is created by people taking a plastic bag with their garbage in our village and throwing it out of the car into the bushes, into the trash. And he brings everything - from furniture to his household waste etc. And I, if they do this to us, I'm going to the village, I'm going to talk to the mayor, and we're going to clean up the dump. And we're cleaning it up pretty much all the time, regardless of the fact that not far from the place where people often put waste away in this way, they have the opportunity to use free of charge to postpone separate collections. They don't do that. If we severely prosecute owners through a designated community, that means a community with which they don't really communicate, then I consider it redundant and almost frustrating for those people. If they're to be held responsible for the scandalous behavior of some of our fellow citizens in this way, then I don't think that's a good law. It wouldn't work in practice. Those things work. Relatively, I think it always succeeds in solving the relevant village in which the black landfill is located. And so I could imagine that there would be no such thing, because every mayor, every small council feels responsible for the fact that a black dump together, if it's smaller, can do it by the owner, but if it's not small, if it's repeated, then the community has to help.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u29	Mr. Ambassador, you've run out of time to make a point of fact. Thank you. I have no one else in the debate. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Minister. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u30	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, I will start with what Mr Adamec said very rightly, and that is that waste has been, are and will be business. And because it is, of course, there are some antagonistic contradictions that just can't be dealt with. Because the relationships between those who want to recycle, those who want to burn, those who, of course, do not want to create waste at all, and especially those who want to continue landfilling, and they are those who have billions of crowns, are in practice unsolvable. You'll never please them all. Therefore, you will never be pleased with all your colleagues and colleagues in this Chamber of Deputies. And it was interesting that when you were watching the debate, there were these contradictions. And I think it was obvious. For some, 2030 is too far away from landfilling. He's too close for someone. For some, the sorting discount is too strict. For some, it's too benevolent for the community. For some, the landfill fee, as it is designed, is high. It's low for some people because it should still be motivational. All I'm saying is that it's not possible to achieve any complex agreement with everyone in this area. But we have succeeded in doing something that has never actually succeeded before, so that we can stand ten days ago at a press conference in one row of the leadership of the Union of Towns and Communities, the Confederation of Industry and Transport, the Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of the Environment, and all the presidents of those unions have said yes, we agree and support these laws, as they are proposed, because it is just sometimes a very bloody compromise between our interests. They all grind their teeth the same way. And that's always the signal that something went wrong. Nobody was too excited. No one was too disappointed. This has been heard several times from you, colleagues. And I'm very happy for the debate, though some of the sentences that have been spoken to me here, so I've heard them in the past, and some of them seemed to me, forgive me that word, like a wet dream of a particular landfill company that would like to dump here by 2150. But luckily, it won't. Now only briefly to some myths. Czech Republic... [[The reaction from the diaper: Me too?]] Not Me too, but myths. Today, the Czech Republic uses 12 percent of its municipal waste energy. The European average is 28 percent. There are Nordic countries such as Sweden, Finland, Denmark and others that have a lot more than 50 percent of energy use. I intend to say the energy recovery of waste. Not burning, that's different. Here's just a dirty word for energy recovery in this state. Why? Because there's a group of environmentalists here, and I remember one name specifically, but I'm not gonna tell him not to advertise. It's ironic that this guy is actually on one side as an environmentalist with landfillers, which surprises me. And they're all shooting into the energy use. And they say, recycle, you have to recycle. Dear people, who have read the law, and I acknowledge that it is not a simple law, so it will find directly in the law mandatory percentages for recycling: 55 per cent in 2025, 60 per cent in 2030 and 65 per cent in 2035, because they are European targets and are written into the law. But there's nowhere to find a percentage of how much we have to burn. Because, of course, there is no such percentage. But let me give you a simple number. In 2035 the Czech Republic will be obliged to recycle 65 percent of its municipal waste according to European rules. 10 per cent will end up in landfills even after the ban on landfilling - that is slag, ash and a number of other wastes that cannot be used in any way today. And the difference between 100 per cent and 75 per cent is 25 per cent. That means only 25 percent of this will remain for the combustion or energy use. Only 25 percent. That's all we can do. [[10.20 hours]] So whoever says we're gonna burn a huge amount here says nonsense. We use 12 percent energy today, and at best we get to 25. And we will still be deep below the European average. So, for God's sakes, let's stop arguing about how there's overcapacity and they're going to create excess capacity for energy use. They won't! Because they won't have anything to feed it on. And those entrepreneurs who put billions of crowns in it, they're not getting any funding. I agree with you on that. Someone said that I negotiated in Europe around - well, I never negotiated in Europe so that Europe would promote combustion. I've never negotiated this! I was there negotiating a lot of things about the EIA, etc. Because Europe does not support combustion! He doesn't support it, but he doesn't forbid it. And I'm going back to what was said here, and we experienced it in the 2008 crisis, or, in fact, in the years after the crisis, when demand for recycled materials fell sharply, for sorted materials. And I ask, what would we do with this material if no one wanted it and we didn't have another endgame and it was forbidden to dump? This government, of course, is just responsible over various appeals to madness from a percentage point of view, aware that it must be spread well, and recycling is the basis. We're recycling 39 percent of the municipal waste today, we have to get 55 percent in 2025, and that's not gonna be any fun, ladies and gentlemen, I admit that. And some of you here have talked about what to do with it. Everything's in one word, and it's called ecomodulation. It is indicated in both end-of-life and packaging laws. We'll talk about it later. It will bring significantly greater responsibility to the manufacturer, and I think it was also said here by colleague Adamec, simply the manufacturer will be far more favoured than today or disadvantaged, depending on the packaging he places on the market or the product he places on the market. If the product is recyclable, if it's even repairable. 'Cause we're crazy about overuse these days, with a whole bunch of packaging materials. This means that I can calm everyone down that this country will by no means move far into the position of Germany, which burns over 50 percent of municipal waste, or Sweden, or Norway. And all I'm saying is that energy use of waste is a dirty word. It's not. It's normal, so we'll replace coal, among other things. Well, I don't really understand the hysteria about it. But recycling comes first. And it's written into the law. As far as gold-plating is concerned, I can assure you that it is not there by any chance, because the year 2024, which is originally the end of the ban on landfilling, was approved at a time when everything was going to ban landfilling from Europe in 2025. However, the European Union has postponed its obligations until 2030, or its commitments, because it is said that Member States are seeking not to receive any waste suitable for recycling or other recovery from 2030, in particular municipal waste. I am quoting this directly to the European directive. So 2030, the landfill ban law, is also a very bloody compromise between entities such as industry, some regions that said we want 2024, but those endings that would divert roughly 1.9 million tons from landfills by 2024, they just aren't and won't stand up in a year or two years. Yeah, I'm sure there's gonna be a big debate, I'm looking forward to it, in committees, in seminars. Wherever you invite us, that's where we'll be. We'll be doing seminars ourselves to explain our positions. And from the point of view of the fee - it is built just in combination with the sorting discount so that it does not burden the residents. In other words, I think you all know it: if you're sorting well, there's an absolute minimum left in that black trash can. I am today - and this law will allow, of course, for this also to be adjusted by the collection frequency, the specific payment per litre or per kilo of the volume of waste. A whole number of municipalities are already doing it, they weigh waste, they have barcodes on bins, they just have KUKA cars that weigh waste. And these are things that work abroad. And then, if you look at it, so is the increase in the landfill charge, and once again, it has been said here - it will take the money from the landfillers, but it will not take it from the citizens. Because if the sorting is good and the municipalities meet the sorting discount, the citizen doesn't have to feel the increase in the landfill fee at all. But even if the municipality were to project an increase in the landfill fee to citizens, we are talking about 10-15 crowns a year. Ten, fifteen crowns a year, folks, from the point of view of the increase. It's all processed within the RIA. I could talk here for a very long time, and I don't want to hold it back, but I'm just taking the liberty of reacting briefly to some things. I think it's also for Mrs Krutáková. Again, recycling. There's been a big debate here about making some tax advantages. I believe that tax advantages play no role in promoting recycling. What works and what works and what we support further and specifically support is green procurement, i.e. the possibility that - for example, I will indicate to you a specific case that the state, when it supports sewerage, water pipes and goes there, of course, to mix recycling with quite a significant amount of plastic, so that, of course, there is a congregation advantage in green recycling orders. It's the right thing to do. If the state wants it, it should support it. How many times have there been an opinion of the municipalities? But we have come to basic harmony with the Union of Towns and Villages. Waste laws, including all those parameters, have been approved by the Union of Towns and Communities, its Bureau, have been approved by the Association of Industry, have been approved by the Chamber of Commerce, and I dare say that I can really speak here on behalf of a very broad group that has achieved this as a compromise text. Mr. Munzar to the black dumps. It was a huge, several-month debate between landowners and the Union of Towns and Municipalities, because the Union of Towns and Municipalities originally wanted much stricter conditions for owners. And we saw that for large owners, we talked to the Forests of the Czech Republic and others, it just isn't possible. It's not acceptable to them. The Union of Towns and Municipalities said clearly: Apply the rule of ownership obliges. Ownership also means responsibility. We've seen that it's not realistic that we can't fence half the Republic. That is why we have proposed a procedure - and now I do not want to delay, explain it in committees, explain it at seminars - where we believe it will not bring, as my colleague Munzar or colleague Bendl fears, the burden of the municipalities. On the contrary, the State Environmental Fund will provide more subsidies to municipalities for the disposal of black landfills. If people are pigs, we can't change any law, just if someone takes a plastic bag and throws it out of the car into a ditch, unfortunately it's about morality, it's not about any law, we all know that. There is no miraculous method for this, but we will allow a certain compromise between what SMO wanted the Czech Republic and what the great owners wanted, and it is incarnated in the very end in the wording, when we also dealt with a contradiction with the Ministry of Agriculture. End of závěr. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for a very interesting debate. Thank you for giving us the opportunity to continue with the committees. I would like us to do this within the 60 days, because there are some additional transposition periods and I am convinced that we are able to do it within 60 days, i.e. standard deadlines. I also want to say that we are in a situation where we really can't and can't, and so far no one has done it so that all those who would like to write their visions into it can be satisfied at once. This is in line with European legislation. It's in line with the possibilities of this country. With a certain history. And if we're dumping 45 percent of the municipal waste today, we just want to get to 10 percent of the landfill in 2030. And I am convinced that we will succeed and that we will not only implement the European directive, because it is secondary, with all due respect, but above all, we will start treating waste as a raw material, as a valuable source of energy, and not as something that, as an ugly, ugly, dirty thing, we are burying under the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u31	I thank the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabco for the final word. I'm asking the rapporteur if he's interested. Mr rapporteur, I will grant it to you immediately, just stating two apologies received, namely Vice-President Tomáš Hanzel, from today's meeting until the end of the sitting day from 10.00 pm for work reasons and for health reasons from 9.00 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Mrs Tereza Hyťhová. Now, the rapporteur with the final word. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, allow me a brief summary. I would also like to thank you for the cultivated debate that has taken place here on this amendment to the law. Of course, there are different opinions that we will have the opportunity to discuss. For this reason, I would also like to thank you for the fact that there has been no proposal for rejection or recasting, but that there is really an effort to make this law work, so that it is okay, and to give the possibility on individual committees to address this. And I would also like to support Mr Adamec's view that all these environmental laws should also be passed on to the Economic Committee, so that this issue can also be discussed here. So I guess that's it for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u33	I thank the rapporteur and we can therefore continue to discuss this with the commandments of the committees for discussion. As the rapporteur said, there was no motion to reject or to re-work, and we can therefore negotiate the commandments directly. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest ordering another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. I can therefore say that we will decide in the 179 vote which I will begin, and I ask who is in favour of the commandments of the Committees on the Environment as a committee of guarantee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 179. At present 153, for 144, no one opposed. We're good to go. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee and the rapporteur proposed to the Economic Committee. Anyone else reporting? Yes, a colleague of Feri. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a committee on public administration and regional development. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-001-058.u35	Okay. Another committee? [[Mrs Mračková - the same.]] Same one. Okay. I don't see another suggestion. So we will still decide on the commandment to the Economic Committee and the Committee on Regional Development. In the vote number 180, we will decide on the commandment to the Economic Committee. I have begun voting number 180 and I ask who is in favour of the Economic Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 180. Of the present 154 for 92, versus 3. The motion was accepted. The next committee is the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, and we will decide that in voting number 181, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 181. Of the 155 for 142 present, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. In the debate, there has been a proposal for an extension of the deadline for discussion of 20 days from Mr Elfmark, and we will decide that in the vote number 182, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of extending the deadline for discussion. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 182. Out of 155 present for 78, versus 57. The motion was accepted. I'm asking if there's any interest in checking the electronic minutes of the vote. It's not like that. I therefore note that this press 676 has been assigned to the Committee on the Environment as a committee of guarantee. Other committees discussing this press are the Committee on Economic and Public Administration and Regional Development, and the time limit for discussion is 80 days, i.e. extended by 20. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish point 58. The rapporteur may leave the rapporteur's table, the Minister shall remain because the next item is:
