ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u1	5. Government bill amending Act No. 106/1999 Coll., on Free Access to Information, as amended, and Act No. 123/1998 Coll., on the right to information on the environment, as amended /house print 633/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, instead of the apologized Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček will present this proposal to the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u2	Thank you. Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. I would briefly mention the bill that should be presented to you here, which amends the law on free access to information and the law on the right to information on the environment. The reason why this amendment is presented is that the practice actually shows some of the problems that are related to the provision of information. And the problems are like they're on both sides. On the part of those who provide information, unfortunately, we also often encounter cases, perhaps I can say, abuse of the obligation to inform, because I know from my own experience that we receive a whole range of requests from not only such notorious complainants, but that it is often in a form that doesn't make much sense anymore, and it doesn't seem to be led by just an honest effort to get information, and it also leads to a disproportionate burden on the provision of information, because it is often needed to a huge extent, information that goes back years and so on. So I know, and I've come across it myself, that there is abuse of the right to information, so actually one reason for the amendment is to try to face when the right is proven to be abused, whether for some kind of crutulant reason, or that an extremely large quantity is simply required, which is not easy to process and deliver. [[11.50 hours]] The amendment should not merely restrict the right to seek information. On the other hand, the amendment is also led to strengthen the status of information seekers, because there are, of course, a number of those who have full rights and legitimate reasons for trying to access the information, so that the amendment is actually led by strengthening the protection of the subjects, which means strengthening the right. So it's not that it's just for protecting one side or the other, but it's an effort to bring in more rata and learn from how it works in practice and where it doesn't actually work too well, whether one side or the other side is failing. So the proposal you're being presented to you is, on the one hand, an effort to make if someone asks for large-scale data packages, so make an event. involved some kind of financial sum, if that means that it will burden the apparatus disproportionately for a certain period of time. At most it is CZK 2,000, so the financial participation of the one asking for information is limited by the sum of CZK 2,000. That's one form that's being proposed. The important thing is that the law also seeks to simplify the protection of personal data or banking business secrets. The method of anonymity of data, here is also proposed a more efficient and elegant way to perform data anonymity, unless it is possible to name names and based on the refusal to provide information. There is also another area that is being adapted, which is a new reason for not providing information. This new reason for failure to provide information is the protection of information which could jeopardise the equality of parties to judicial, arbitration or administrative proceedings. That's something that's being assigned there. This is seen as a reason which may or should be a reason not to provide information. Then there are the deadlines, the extension of some time limits which currently, the deadlines for processing the request, there is a tendency to work with those time limits. The way I'm not going to discuss it is for you to consider it and assess it. The handling of applications is a relatively complex process and the deadlines here should be adapted to other administrative procedures. That's probably the tendency that's being proposed in that law. Otherwise, I think that these are amendments, which are more of an agreement that should be made in the House, and it is up to the Members to consider what is rational in which possible problems or even legitimate requests or ideas of one or the other party are considered. Finding the right balance is a matter of the House, because I don't think it's something that should be a priori controversial, but it's more about making the standard consider the rights and obligations of both sides in an optimal way after the agreement here in the House. So that's for this novel. By the fact that some amendments have already been tabled at this point, I have them listed here, I will not comment on them for the time being, because I understand that we are at first reading. Let me introduce you to the material that awaits the House. I believe it is worth adjusting, and I also hope that there will be sufficient will and willingness to agree on a reasonable adjustment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u3	Thank you. The rapporteur for the first reading is Mr Ivan Bartoš. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, through Minister Zaorálek here, on behalf of the Minister of the Interior of Mr Hamáček, an amendment to the Act on the Right to Information has been introduced to us. The Government submitted a proposal to the House on 29 May 2011. 10. 2019. The proposal was discussed by the Organising Committee on 14. 11. 2019 and its resolution 236 proposed the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee. He also proposed ordering the press to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee. The two laws involved are one of the tools for informing the public about public administration. After all, a hundred and six were one of the first laws to actually give citizens the right to demand information from the state in such explicit terms. The submitted amendment responds to occasional cases of bullying and conversion requests and introduces the possibility of defending mandatory entities against requests for information. The proposal itself presumes two solutions. First, it cites abuse of the right to information as an explicit reason for refusing a request, and this is not in fact a change in the legal situation, since the administrative courts in their case law already allow the possibility of refusing a request for information precisely because of the misuse of the right to information. So we're actually writing into the law something that actually applies in the ordinary process. The second measure is the introduction of an advance on reimbursement of costs. This, according to the authors of the amendment, is intended to eliminate cases of applications which need to be traced and processed by a large number of different information and subsequently prevent the applicant from paying the costs incurred for these actions. The drafter believes that the current legal situation is showing certain deficits in relation to mandatory entities. It believes that mandatory bodies should be protected from misuse of the right to information by citizens or civil society. It shall refer to Article 17 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 4 The Charter of Rights and Freedoms, according to which the conditions for access to information, and in particular the restriction of access to information, must be laid down directly by law. The reasons for rejecting a request must be explicitly and certainly defined in the law. On the contrary, the proposal does not explicitly define entities which are obliged to provide information under Acts 106 and 123. Their determination depends on the case-law and practice, which, from our point of view, we have encountered, is not entirely happy because you are entering often a court case with an institution that has already been obliged to provide information once, so it is probably interesting to consider that they would be listed there. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development sought an explicit definition of the scope of the compulsory bodies for these reasons in its amendment to House Press 50, but the House rejected this proposal. As rapporteur, I have already been contacted by NGOs dealing with this issue. In particular, I would mention Mr Oldřich Kužílek, who is co-author of the original draft of the whole law on free access to information, and today is one of the biggest authorities in this area. Mr Kužílek also criticizes the proposed bill on many points. It can be assumed that these arguments will be thoroughly discussed in the next stages of the legislative process in both chambers of Parliament. So much for my press release, 633. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate. Mr Milan Pour is the first member of the debate to prepare Mr Marek Benda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment on the draft bill, respectively. Amendment to the Act on Free Access to Information and the Act on the Right to Environmental Information. I certainly welcome this bill mainly because it aims to introduce mechanisms in the rule of law for the protection of obliged entities, so it is mostly municipalities, before abuse of the right to information. I know from negotiations with representatives of municipalities that the problem of misuse of the right to information by applicants is bothering a number of municipalities and may also paralyze some of them in their other activities. However, in getting to know the text of this proposal and subsequent discussions with municipal representatives, I have found some passages which I think would be appropriate to adjust them differently. [[12.00 hours]] I would like to propose some additions to the amendment, such as the possibility of rejecting a request if the applicant has information at his disposal, even in the case of a law on free access to information. To date, this possibility is regulated only by the Act on the right to information on the environment. It would also be appropriate to consider whether it is okay that representatives applying for information under the Act on Free Access to Information do not, according to the Ministry's interpretation, have an obligation to pay the costs of providing information. This form of provision of information means not only a half-time period for processing, but also a more complex administration for municipalities, including the obligation to publish information. Although the Ministry of the Interior does not support this idea so far, I would like to discuss it in the committee, where we can possibly come up with another solution with regard to the updated amendment of the law on municipalities, regions and the capital city of Prague. My opinion is that representatives applying for information under the Municipalities Act or the Regionals Act or the Capital City Act which they are to receive within 30 days should not pay for such information, however, if they apply under the Free Access Act, i.e. not as representatives under their special law, then this information should be charged as in the case of any other applicant. I have already read my amendments into the system and I am ready to discuss them subsequently both in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and with individual colleagues who are interested in this issue. This year I also took part in the working group's meeting on this bill, where this proposal was discussed between some Members and representatives of the State Reconstruction. A comprehensive amendment should be tabled following the following principles: firstly, establishing a more precise definition of mandatory entities; Secondly, an improvement in the provisions on misuse of the right to information so that it is not self-usable; and thirdly, the removal or modification of provisions restricting the right to information. This comprehensive amendment is currently before the finalisation, so it is assumed that certain partial adjustments will be made. Finally, I would like to say that I am clearly in favour of letting this bill be released for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u7	Have a nice noon. Next, Mr Marek Benda, Mr Marek Benda, will be speaking in the general debate, so far the last one to be logged in. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u8	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am extremely sorry that Minister Zaorálek and not Minister Hamáček, who is his author, are presenting this bill to the Chamber of Deputies. What's the problem? This bill was prepared after this, let's say, official line, in my opinion, essentially right and in the direction that should be taken, that is to limit abuse - and now I don't want to say restricting the right to information, I do not question the existence of an information law, although I sometimes say for myself that it is one of the most problematic laws we have, but I know that there are other Members here in the House who love it on the contrary, I do not belong to them - but to restricting the abuse of this right to information. Unfortunately, just before it went into the government, the Minister, and I wanted to ask him that, as far as I know, he met with the representatives of the Pirate Party and other organizations to make the state transparent and half of the useful measures originally proposed, withdrawn or launched by the government, and thus made the amendment largely, say, ineffective or inadequate. I think it will be our job to return it to the Committees in the Chamber of Deputies for the future, and then I will propose that we order the law, in addition to the Committee on Regional Development, to the constitutionally-legal committee, and I will explain why, and to extend the deadline for discussion by about 20 days to 80 days, so that we have sufficient time. I think that at this point in time, the Government has a implementation amendment in the Legislative Council of the Government, as far as I am aware, and it will certainly no longer be able to discuss it by the end of this parliamentary term. Then it is with question mark whether at least some parts of this implementation amendment should also be incorporated into this print 633, because nothing else will be done. Now, something has already been said here by Mr Pour, the petitioner and the rapporteur, it is quite obvious that there is a number of cases of completely bullying abuse of the right to information, whether to abuse these authorities unnecessarily, or to write my diploma and rigorous work on it and demand them to give me information that I am lazy to seek, or to lead a competitive economic struggle in a number of cases and try to break through information about my potential competitors on the market in this way. These are all things that I don't think are right. I agree with the right to information, and I think that it should not be abused and that we need to set the parameters of the law so as not to abuse it. And then there are two, let's say, constitutional problems for which I propose that he be ordered to the constitutionally-legal committee. Today, we are in a situation where every big court - and it is already getting to the level of regional and district courts, although it has been clearly said that court proceedings do not have the right to information - now has one or two employees who do nothing but respond according to 100, according to the information law. It's mostly questions like who's got what it is and if anybody's got it, but I think it's something completely perverted. We employ thousands of people in times of government deficit just to make sure that someone who feels like he owns the state, because maybe sometimes he pays some taxes on it, so that the state authorities endlessly, endlessly bother him. The same is the problem that we have encountered, which I have repeatedly said here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, the publication of some partial judicial decisions that seem final. Of course, the final decision of the court is made public, but according to the 100th century, some witches have learned to receive a resolution on detention, which is a final decision on the matter, because there is an appeal against it, but if the appeal is not used, it is as if it is not a final decision on the matter, but it is not a decision of a territorial nature, it is not a decision that determines what has happened or did not happen, but at the moment when, according to the hundredth, journalists receive it, they go and begin to rewrite from the resolution on detention, what are suspected or not suspected of the person. I consider this to be very problematic, and I think that we must also deal with this in Amendment 106. And the last problem that concerns... for which I think it should also be ordered to the constitutionally-legal committee, this concerns, in particular, the offices of the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate and the President of the Republic, but also to some extent the courts. A year and a half ago, my colleague Michálek said that where there is no superior authority, he was the moderator of the dispute in any dispute under the Free Access to Information Act of the Office for Personal Data Protection. That is correct when it comes to executive power. It is not right if we are talking about other bodies of state power and legislative power, judicial, or the Office of the President of the Republic. That is what I think is wrong, and that we will also have to deal with that, that the Office for Personal Data Protection can be led by this particular sub-agency of the executive authority, cannot be directed by the Office of the Chamber of Deputies and its President. [[12.10 hours]] So those are my reservations. I think there's something to improve. Unfortunately, the proposal doesn't quite bring it. Unfortunately, the Home Secretary had deboned it to some extent just before it passed through the government. We're going to have to get back to that and prepare it better, which is why I propose an extension of 20 days. In particular, because of the protection of legal proceedings and proceedings, but also the protection of other institutions, I propose that we order a constitutionally-legal committee. Although I know you all realize we're deeply overloaded, we're gonna wear this one more thing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u9	There. Mr Jakub Michálek, the last application so far, will now be heard in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, as part of this amendment, we will definitely propose an extension of the scope of mandatory subjects. We don't think the amendment should be designed to limit the quadrulants in quotation marks. It must be said that there are really people who abuse the right to information, and even those non-profits allow it to be anti-corruption. When I was working at the Prague City Hall, there were some cases on the edge as well. But they are really units of cases for the whole Czech Republic. It is not that anyone who asks for information or who makes more requests should automatically fall into this regime. The bill contains some problems. As I was saying, we're going to be loading an extension of the mandatory subjects. And in order to respond to what my previous speaker, Mr Benda, said here, I deeply disagree with the fact that the courts should not be subject to the jurisdiction of the hundred and sixty. Because let's face it, who is above courts in any country? What authority is there over courts in any country around the world? Nobody. And there's no one to review the court's decision. Therefore, the only mechanism that can prevent justice from becoming corrupt, as it has happened with our colleagues in Slovakia or in the Balkan States, is public control. Public control of the judiciary is an alpha omega to ensure that this power is not abused by the courts. They decide on individual lives, decide even on legislation approved by Parliament here, so that the right to information also applies to courts. And it's perfectly logical that there are people who are in charge of making decisions so that they don't happen to create different mafia structures there, just like we historically had with the judicial mafia, or now we're back on TV and we're reading cases about corrupt judges in the paper. So there is a need for effective civil and public control over judicial authority. As for... of course, we can talk about when and how to publish what types of information, so that the information is the result of some proper process and does not, on the contrary, disclose misleading information, these are all legitimate discussions, but the underlying premise must be such that the scope of the right to information is general. As far as the specialty is concerned, or the way in which the appeal is resolved in relation to the division of power, the basic principle is, of course, that the powers are separate. However, this does not imply that the powers of the Office for Personal Data Protection concerning the right to information should be excluded. When we look at other laws governing the operation or review of these institutions, we see that, even if this is hypothetically done in the Office of the President of the Republic or within the Chamber of Deputies, the administrative office will decide anyway. The Archiving Act. If there is a breach of the Archiving Act, it will be decided locally by the relevant regional archives, which fall under the power of the executive. It's not like they make their own decisions. There is only one exception, there is the President of the Republic and Members under immunity, but that is the only exception where there is actually a specific process, or in the case of the President it is excluded completely, at least for the duration of the mandate. So we always get to the executive power. It's not like they're making decisions on their own, and they're excluded from municipal law. The laws must apply to all, they must also apply to the President of the Republic. We've had a number of cases here where the President of the Republic, virtually. His office refused to disclose information, and the courts were right about the applicants. So it is appropriate that there be effective protection of the right to information with the President of the Republic, because even for the Office of the President of the Republic, the laws that we approve here apply. We can also look at the solution of administrative offences or offences on the personal data protection section. After all, we cannot allow there to be no way of monitoring compliance with personal data protection, so that public authorities with information on citizens are excluded only on the basis that they have this specific status. To rule out any inspection. So even in this case, we will finally get to the fact that in the Office of the President of the Republic or in the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, in the case of the review of personal data protection, we will eventually get to the Office of Personal Data Protection. This is an independent office which is earmarked in its own way by executive authority. It is occupied in a specific way so that there is no dependence on the authorities of power executive, legislative. There's some kind of term, etc. So, in a way, it is an independent tribunal, albeit not at the level of the court, and there is guaranteed the possibility of defending itself against its decisions in administrative justice. But if we've decided here that we want to ensure effective protection of the right to information, we've extended the jurisdiction of the Office of Personal Data Protection here, so I think now it would be inappropriate for us to finally start showing that it actually works, that the Office of the President of the Republic provides the information that the mechanism has worked out to somehow divide and slow down the enforcement of that right. Because the enforcement of law is one of the important values we're here to protect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u11	Mr Marek Benda is now on the verdict and Mr Stanislav Grospič will be prepared in the general debate. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u12	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, just a brief response to Mr Michálek. With all due respect to his erudition, public civil control of the judiciary is a thing that really, really scares me. That's the 1950s. There we had public civil control of the judiciary carried out through the Communist Party. I understand where he's going. That is why we have judgments that are fundamentally public in the judiciary. That's what's important about public access to judgments. But other than that, the judiciary is something that is not subject to public civil control. If we want to do so, we need to bring in the jury courts, we must say that the blame and punishment may be decided by the citizens of this country in some form. But this sentence really, really scares me. And I don't think it even has anything to do with this law. They often respond to complete insanity and do not respond to judicial decisions. But it's a sentence that scared me, which forced me to take a factual remark that I rarely take.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u13	Mr Jakub Michálek, on the point of fact, will now be prepared for Mr Milan Feranec. So please, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u14	Thank you for the floor. I would like to assure my colleague Benda that this is not really about any housewife getting up and going to the Supreme Court to see how they decide. Public control is meant that the institution publishes its outputs, has a transparent procedure and that e.g. academics, legal practice, etc. they may, within some discourse, deal with the outcomes of the judiciary, argue with it, draw attention to the shortcomings that are there. And this is really one of the things that leads to the courts deciding independently, because judges are not only afraid of their disciplinary responsibilities, which, of course, is also there, and it is appropriate for them to be there, but they also care for their reputation, so that their decisions are really well explained and to stand up in that academic discourse. So this is the kind of control that works in all the advanced judicial systems in the world, and we don't have to worry about the 1950s that some lady housekeeper will be here to control the court decisions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u15	Now, on the point of fact, Mr Milan Feranec will speak and Mr Jan Farský will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also respond to what Mr Michálek said when he wondered who was here on trial, over judicial authority. Well, nobody. And that's how it's grounded. That's how it works. It's power-sharing. Unless, yes, the House can set the standards differently. So if something works and it's the basis of democracy for 300 years, I'm afraid these activist pirate proposals really go against the principle itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u17	Now, on the point of fact, Mr Jan Farský will speak. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u18	Thank you. About the public inspection with regard to the verdicts. I would like to give one example where, I must say, as a lawyer, I am extremely surprised. For two or three years, I simply pay attention to sending proposals to the courts to stop the illegal enforcement proceedings, which are in the Czech Republic at 200,000. And it happens to me that one court in exactly the same case will decide that one judge will reject my motion, and the other will confirm it, and that will stop the enforcement proceedings. And when judges in one court are unable to clarify a unified procedure between themselves, then I think that such a check is also appropriate because of the predictableness of the decision-making process. So in this area, I think there's a point. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u19	So, Mr Stanislav Grospič will now speak in the general debate and prepare Marek Benda. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the government, it also leads me to think, the debate that I am listening to very carefully here. And more and more and more I think that simply to adopt Act 106 on free access to information, or to adapt it to include the question of courts, judicial decisions, is the most fatal mistake that can happen, because that is actually how we will enter into the division of power on which the fundamental principle of the functioning of this republic is based, that is, the power of Parliament, executive and judicial. And you should think about it, we have discussed here today how the judicial system will actually be organised, how disciplinary measures will take place, what mechanisms we will find there to punish those judges who do not fulfil their obligations, how we will address the issue of the lack of need to unify the caselaw in certain types of decisions. And instead, we're going to project the principles of the administration's administration of free access to information into the exercise of power. And I would be very careful. I think the iniquities are happening. I'm not naive enough to think there's no abuse. But it can also just happen that someone who is obviously not interested, well-founded interest, simply looks for the data for a reason and wants them and looks for them and asks for them. So this law triggers something that will create many and many problems in the future. So I don't think that's a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u21	Mr Marek Benda will now be speaking in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u22	Dear Vice-President, Minister, Madam Secretary, Ladies and Gentlemen, I did not want to react in a factual point, so there are still a few comments on the debate that has taken place here about the control of judgments which I do not consider to be the luckiest of them to be dealt with within the framework of the deadline. I've been drawing attention to other problems. But I think we can have some kind of debate here about how or not to conduct public control, as my colleague Michálek called it, the decision-making power of the court. In general, the courts always decide publicly. Their decision-making is public. Whoever comes to see it is the basic principle that has been here since the end of Austria-Hungary. Public justice has been built against cabinet justice, which always decides publicly if it is not an entirely exceptional situation, as a secret fact. At the same time, however, the public's decision-making means that I have to get up in some way and go there. It doesn't mean that everything has to be published, including full names. I don't know if it's the company's interest to have all the divorce decisions, including the contents of the property, and to create this database that can be stolen, or who argued with whom. I therefore have great doubts about this, and there we are having a debate on how anonymously we contribute to the culture of the decision-making environment, anonymously the judgments are to be published. But I don't know if they're really supposed to be published under the Free Access Act. I referred to the problem of some of the partial decisions that I think we really should resolve, because this decision on ties is really absurd and in advance in some way affecting the criminal proceedings, where the principle of criminal proceedings at the very preparatory stage is that it is not public. So I don't think it's that simple. And what my colleague Farský then mentioned, the different decisions of the court in one case even in one court, so we have a second instance. That's why we have regional, supreme, highest courts to possibly unite our decision-making practice. I'm not really going to unite the decision-making practice by either academics or street granny writing some opinions and calling for a different choice. And the second part of my speech concerns the authorities of the state, which are not part of the executive power, typically the Chamber of Deputies. I understand that, of course, we and the President of the Republic must obey and respect the decision of the court. Of course, that's what the courts are for. We make the rules, the executive power plays according to them, the courts decide, of course, and the executive power we are bound by such a decision by the court. The question is whether, at the moment, the office, which is the poor man responsible for us, and we're going to say "do not answer," and I don't know if I should quote the last story from the organizing committee, where we clearly said "don't answer," and this time it was the law enforcement authorities, but some other time it could be based on a hundred times. We simply have the impression that some things should not even be required by law enforcement authorities or by the hundredth time, and if we are to wait for a court to decide, which is okay, and if the court says "answer, answer to that extent," we will undoubtedly answer, or if the authority of the executive, who is the Office for Personal Data Protection, is to enter into this at that time. And if I remember the debate before that year and a half, when my colleague Michálek put it into the law on free access to information, there was definitely no discussion about whether it would apply to constitutional institutions, or not to constitutional institutions. There was an effort under executive power, and in particular colleague Michálek quoted especially the regions and municipalities and especially Prague, which, for some reason, seems to correspond in some way not quite well, that this element should be inserted there. I agreed to it. But I think that even this element is supposed to hold the division of power in the state as established by the Constitution of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u23	Now I have just one point of fact at this point. And Mr. Jakub Michálek came forward. So please, you've got two minutes to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. All I can do is calm everyone down. Indeed, we have been talking all along about the bill on free access to information relating to the provision of information that has been anonymous in accordance with the law. So some disclosure of property, it's not really possible here. It's anonymous information, and there's no fear that it should be broken somehow. And as for my amendment, which I have put forward here and which we have approved here, it has applied to everyone, to all situations. There was no special exception for anyone. Neither for the President of the Republic nor for the Office of the Chamber of Deputies. And I would have to be ashamed to propose an exception for the Chamber of Deputies here and a law that will apply to everyone else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u25	I will now look around the hall to see if there is any interest in speaking in the general debate. I don't see anyone anymore, so I'm ending the general debate. I wonder if Minister Zaorálek and rapporteur Ivan Bartoš are interested in final words. You don't. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone. So we will proceed to the vote. I've got the song, so we'll wait for a while. So I'm going to repeat what we're going to vote on. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 15, registered by 88 Members, for 83, against one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order this proposal to the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a further committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? Yes, Mr Krejza. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u26	Hello, I'd like to ask for the command of the Defense Committee. It has consequences there too, this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u27	Does anyone else have any other suggestions? I don't see another suggestion. So we're going to vote. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee to the next? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 16, registered by 88 Members, for 80, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as the next committee. We are to order the next proposal as the next committee, this proposal by the Defence Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 17, 88 Members signed in, for 53, against seven. I note that this proposal has also been ordered for discussion by the Defence Committee as the next committee. And that concludes the first reading of this... Excuse me? [[Member Benda: Extension.]] Oh, well, I wasn't exactly in charge of the meeting. So please, Mr. Ambassador, can you repeat that again?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u28	In the debate, I proposed extending the deadline by 20 days to 80 days. So I think that this proposal should also be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-005-005.u29	Yes. So we're going to vote on one more proposal. Mr Marek Benda proposes an extension of the time limit for discussion of 20 days. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 18, registered by 88 Members, for 70, against none. Your proposal has been accepted. So I hope that these are all the proposals that we should have voted on, and I am ending the first reading of this bill. Let's move on to point number
