ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-010-052.u1	52. Government bill amending Act No. 111/1994 Coll., on Road Transport, as amended, and other related laws /house print 643/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. Please take the floor. [[There's noise in the room.]] Quiet in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-010-052.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Transport is submitting for discussion a draft law amending Law 111 on road transport, which can be simplified and broken down into four areas in thematic terms. The first of the modified areas is the issue of management time requirements. large vehicles, safety breaks, rest periods or keeping and keeping records, with the proposal of this Act laying down obligations for carriers to ensure all these requirements. We are proposing to use the maximum amount of optional exemptions for different specific transports, which we have used, as I have already said, to the maximum possible extent, while these special transports also lay down special requirements for safety breaks and then for keeping and keeping all relevant records. The second of the revised areas is the issue of control and administrative punishment. In other words, what will not be observed in the first one will somehow be sanctioned here in the second area. So once again, it's a safety break, it's a rest period, it's a requirement to keep all records, keep those records, etc. The authorisation to collect bail under the Road Transport Act is extended and an explicit prohibition on production, offer, promotion and sale is imposed and everything associated with it is subject to equipment intended for the unauthorised change of data kept by the tachograph. The third area is an area which involves the issue and surrender of tachograph cards. As I put it together, it is therefore four types of cards - the driver, the business, the employer, workshops, or various control cards for different police types, etc., and within this law there are a number of partial changes, the various legal arrangements for issuing and handing over those cards, whether the driver, the business, or the various workshops or those control cards. The so-called adaptation is also being addressed here. centralised data management and is replaced by comprehensive legislation of the digital tachograph information system. And the fourth area is focused on the issue of the conditions of professional competence of drivers. We're simplifying here, or we're softening the rules. This is a more free mode especially for drivers in different specific areas, such as agriculture, such as forestry, such as gardening or gardening, or those areas. The principle is that there are slightly less and less stringent requirements for the professional competence of those who will be in these specific areas, such as regular driver training. Basically, it's an option that we're using. At the same time, in the framework of the draft adoption of this Act, drivers from third countries will be allowed to demonstrate professional competence by means of a driver certificate issued by the Transport Authority under Regulation 1072/2009 and in this context the annexes to the application for this certificate are specified. I would therefore like to ask you for the support of the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-010-052.u3	Thank you and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Ožanová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-010-052.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after a very detailed report by the Minister, I would like to be brief. The aim of the draft law is to implement existing Union directives on road transport, in particular the transport of goods by vehicles with a maximum permissible mass including a semi-trailer or trailer exceeding 3.5 tonnes, and the transport of passengers by vehicles intended for the transport of more than nine persons, including the driver. I would just like to recapitulate the four main points relating to this bill. Firstly, the requirements for driving time, safety breaks and rest periods and keeping records of these facts. The second point is the control and administrative punishment of non-compliance with the requirements for driving time, safety breaks and rest periods, and the keeping and retention of records of these facts. The third point is the issue and surrender of tachograph cards and the management of the relevant information system. The fourth point is the conditions of professional competence of drivers selected by large vehicles. The proposed bill primarily ensures the compatibility of the legal order of the Czech Republic with the law of the European Union. I recommend that the House deal with the proposal and release it until further reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-010-052.u5	Thank you, and I am opening up a general debate in which Mr Munzar, who I hereby ask, is to present his contribution. And the lady is reporting, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-010-052.u6	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. According to the explanatory memorandum - and the rapporteur has stressed this here several times - it is that this amendment is being tabled on the grounds of European directives. This means that they are trying to make it look like a transposition of some European regulation, but it is not. If you look at the reason message and the proposal, you'll find it's more of a gold-plating. I'd even say a textbook example of gold-plating. As I have become familiar with this press, I have come to the impression that it is more about the integration of existing sub-laws, where there are also some tightenings of our internal Czech decisions. [[16.40 hours]] I'll take one particular example in the beginning, which is more for your amusement. One section deals with the time of document archiving and changes the period of archiving of transport documents from one year to two years. I'll read you a sentence from the explanatory report. I'm sure it'll amuse you. "The period of one year for the preservation of proofs of cargo shall be extended for a period of two years, taking into account the requirements arising from Regulation No 11 of 1960." If this is to be a transposition of the 1960 regulation, then I must say that the Ministry has developed its own incredible capacity and speed and has accelerated the matter within 60 years. I just don't understand, and I might ask the Minister if he answered me why he could have been in our internal regulations for one year to this day. So I have serious doubts that this is really a transposition. But this was just a detail I wanted to get your attention on. Another example, which is far more serious, which also, from my point of view, does not result from any European regulation, and it is only a proposal from the Ministry, so the amendment comes with some new offences, which in certain cases also lead to a financial penalty and, at the same time, a ban on proceedings for three to six months, without taking into account the specific circumstances of such a case. And I have to say, for some carriers, or their employees, may be professionally liquidated. Furthermore - and this, in my opinion, is the greatest clause - the Ministry also proposes to shorten the length of the route exempted from the obligations of the current 100 kilometers from the normal parking position of the vehicle to 50 kilometers. Therefore, the Czech Republic does not want to make use of the maximum exemption that European regulations allow. And no Europe is forcing us to do that, which is what the Ministry of Transport itself proposes, and officials from the Ministry of Transport, to reduce this exception. I was very amused by the magical justification of the Ministry of Transport that the area of the Czech Republic is different from that of other countries. So to this day I thought that one kilometer was the same distance as in the papal state of San Marino, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, France, Germany. But I understand that at the Ministry of Transport, tomorrow means yesterday, and the mile scale is also relative. So when the Minister may show us charts of how many motorways have opened in the Czech Republic, please let us all be aware that they are just different kilometres from beyond our borders. Because it's not a mile, it looks like a mile. And that is the only justification, ladies and gentlemen, in the explanatory report for reducing the exceptions in half. That it is only with regard to the area of the Czech Republic. So once again, it's gold-plating. The real impact of regulation is described only in one subtle sentence. And in the words of Sir Humphrey of Sure, Minister - you found it, or you read it, yes, I found the sentence and I read it and I let it quote: "Really could mean increasing the carrier's wage costs in connection with the need to employ more drivers." Ladies and gentlemen, where are other drivers currently found in the Czech Republic? There is already a shortage, Minister, of drivers especially for the needs of public transport. And this leads me to believe that RIA is very inadequate to this press because it does not address these impacts throughout the sector. RIA's broader socio-economic impacts of the proposed amendment have completely disappeared. To evaluate this press and the submitted RIA I will use the very words of the government from the web, from the Internet of the Office of the Government: Quality RIA leads to quality regulation. And ladies and gentlemen, what is presented to us in the context of the explanatory memorandum is not a quality RIA. For this reason, I will file a motion for the law to be readmitted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-010-052.u7	Thank you. I've noticed the proposal. Now, Mrs Ožanová and the rapporteur have entered into a debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-010-052.u8	I'm going to surprise a fellow member of the Economic Committee. On the contrary, I will make a proposal to shorten the time limit for the committees to 30 days, because the explanatory memorandum is sufficient for me. However, I myself have consistently made comments, which he has said, and I believe that this needs to be dealt with thoroughly on the Economic Committee. For me, the fact that rules should be followed, and that is why more drivers need to be taken - you know, non-compliance with rules, especially rest periods, etc., leads to major problems, traffic accidents and other road problems. Then you wonder if the trucks are going slow, you have a tired driver who starts to sleep there because he doesn't keep his rest periods. I believe that these sanctions are quite necessary in such cases. And as for the time of archiving. I believe that it is from my practice - I do not have it from the explanatory report, I am based only on my practice - for various administrative procedures and for taking evidence these things are quite important in order to find out how the carrier or driver actually complies with the rules of this Republic. So once again, I'm making a proposal to shorten the committees for 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-010-052.u9	Thank you. In fact, Mr Munzar is reporting. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-010-052.u10	Thank you, Mr President. About what the rapporteur said through you. I think that, regardless of political affiliation, it is not our job to constantly correct bills and amendments that often come in insufficient quality from ministries. And if the explanatory memorandum doesn't explain why some exceptions are running short, why there are some violations tightening up, and at the same time the explanatory report tries to look like the implementation of European regulations, and yet it is our internal decision, I have been here several times, even in the past thousands, saying that I do not like this practice. If the explanatory memorandum explains why the Ministry is taking this step, then, of course, we can talk about whether it is the right proposal or whether we have someone else. But if a ministerial servant only writes it as a transposition of European regulations and does not sufficiently justify it, that is why I propose it to be recast. This is therefore the protection of the entire House, so that officials in ministries do not dare do this in the future. That is why I propose this proposal to return to the recast.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-010-052.u11	Thank you. This was at this point the last application for a factual comment even to the debate. So if no one else checks in... [[Minister Havlíček is reporting.]] In the debate, Mr. Secretary? Well, you're free to go to the debate. I don't think anybody's gonna mind. In that case, I conclude the debate and ask if there is any interest in the final words, which I understand is that the Minister is interested in the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-010-052.u12	Thank you very much for the comments that have been made. Well, you're probably gonna accuse me of not being a full specialist, but aside from a few funny notes, I don't quite understand what's wrong with it. I understand that we can discuss what is a transposition and what is not a transposition. But we have some commitments to the European Union, we are simply trying to implement what is there, if it makes sense, properly. What is more important - and I would agree, let this be discussed on the Economic Committee - is whether the tightening ups that are here make sense to the need for security. We can't just say on the one hand, so let's help those who are operators of these trucks, when they are clearly tightening up here only, let's say, the serious violations, which are, for example, the manipulation of the meter and so on. It doesn't seem weird to me, because on the other hand, we simply protect safety and what we experience on the roads today and every day. That means, from this point of view, that's how it was treated. And I dare say that what was said there makes sense. I guess you were right about the so-called archivation in the sense that it's been one year since 1960. Well, it was supposed to be two years, that's what we figured out. Maybe it was supposed to be 20, 15 years ago, it just came up now. It's gonna be all right. Again, I don't see any fatal problem at all, that it's going to adjust to the way it's supposed to be. We can discuss who should have found out in the past. But, in turn, I do not think that, in some fatal way, it will affect the safety of operations today or simply the profitability of those companies that are in that area. I dare say it's for the debate on the Economic Committee today, so let's talk about each of the points that are there. But the essence of why we're doing this is clear. This is to ensure safety of operation and to reduce and prevent certain unfair practices. And they're pretty clear and strictly defined here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-010-052.u13	Thank you. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. I'm gonna call my colleagues in the O.R. because we're gonna vote. Before we vote, there's an application for a check-out, so I'm gonna sign you off. Log in with your cards again. At the same time, I'll introduce you to a note. Mrs Majerová Zahradníková apologises from 16.45 hours for work reasons. And now we are going to vote. The first is the proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. The number of entries hasn't stabilized yet. Or maybe he's settled. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of returning to the recast. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 152 135 Members and Members were enrolled, for 45, against 70. The application for reimbursement has not been approved. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? It's not like that. I am opening the vote and asking who is for the commandment to the Economic Committee. Who opposes the commandment of the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee? Thank you. In the vote number 153 136 Members and Members were registered, for 133, against no one. I note that we have ordered the proposal to the Economic Committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose ordering this press to the next committee. Does anyone have a proposal for another committee? It's not like that. However, there was also a proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion in committee by 30 days to 30 days. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of shortening. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 154, 137 Members and Members were enrolled, for 82, against 38. The motion was accepted. I note that we have shortened the deadlines for discussing this press. I'm done with this point. I thank the plaintiff and rapporteur. Let's move on to point number
