ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u1	17. Government Bill on Digital Services Tax / House Print 658/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Madam Secretary, please take the floor. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the draft Digital Services Tax Act. The main aim of the bill is to introduce a tax which will be taxed on the payment of selected digital services in the Czech Republic. The draft law is based on the proposal for a directive that was discussed in the European Union, but for which unanimous agreement was not found, and so the directive was not adopted in the end. For your information, I supported her very actively. In the various Member States of the European Union, either unilaterally introduced or even taxes have already been introduced based on this proposal for a directive, such as France, Austria, Spain, Portugal, but also other countries working on the adaptation. In addition to the European proposal, the proposed bill contains the completion of certain problems that the proposal for a directive has not yet solved, but the subject of taxation is very similar to the original proposal, so that the tax bodies are not burdened with different tax rates in different states of the European Union. The following digital services, which the law refers to as taxable, fall within the scope of the law. Firstly, the implementation of a targeted advertising campaign, which consists in placing targeted advertising on the digital interface and related provision of ancillary services. Secondly, the use of a multilateral digital interface, which consists in allowing the conclusion of transactions between users of a multilateral digital interface and other ways of using it. Thirdly, providing data on users that have been obtained and collected about digital interface users. The taxable person designated as a payer shall be determined by means of four legal thresholds assessed for the relevant period, which shall, in simple terms, correspond to the last financial year for which the financial statements are available. The first threshold provides that the tax entity will be those legal entities that either belong to a group with a consolidated yield of more than 750 million. the euro, or which obtain such a return on their own. The second threshold provides that, at the same time, these legal persons must collect the sum of the part of the remuneration for the taxable services that are incurred in the Czech Republic in excess of 100 million. Crowns. The third threshold provides that in the event of a targeted advertising campaign and the provision of user data, the entity will be legal entities where the total amount of the remuneration for the taxable services rendered to the Czech Republic exceeds 5 million. Crowns. The use of a multilateral digital interface will be provided by legal entities for which this interface must have more than 200 thousand. user accounts. The fourth threshold provides that only those legal entities for which the provision of taxable services is not only a small fraction of their total activity are undertakings or groups of undertakings which are mainly digitally engaged. Those undertakings or groups of undertakings for which the proportion of collections from taxable services within Europe on their total income within Europe shall not exceed 10 per cent shall be excluded. At the same time, for the purposes of avoiding circumvention of this law, a notification obligation is introduced for entities which, while exceeding the first and second thresholds, do not exceed that fourth threshold. The notification obligation may also be fulfilled collectively within the group by submitting one notification for more than one member entity of the same group. These thresholds limit the scope of the law to entities of a certain size, in cases where there is a significant digital presence of these companies in the territory of the Czech Republic in connection with the provision of some of the taxable services. At the same time, it is prevented from affecting companies that are part of a multinational group that is significant digitally present in the Czech Republic but do not provide these taxable services themselves or provide them but achieve legal limits or provide them only marginally. The rate of tax is 7 %, uniformly for all taxable services. The tax period shall be a calendar year. The subject of a new digital service tax liability will be obliged to submit an application for registration. The tax administration uses so-called self-measurement, so the tax will be determined by legal fiction directly on the basis of the submission of the tax return. It is a standard and modern method of tax management, which is used for newly introduced taxes and which is also common abroad. The tax will be paid primarily in advance, in monthly advances corresponding to one twelfth of the tax charged for the previous tax period. In the first period following registration, the amount of the advances will be based on the amount applicable for the purposes of the second threshold already mentioned. Furthermore, the draft law contains a specific consequence of a breach of the obligation to administer this tax, namely the institute of an unreliable payer of a digital service tax. The reason for the introduction of this measure is, in particular, the fact that the tax entity will be to a significant extent foreign legal persons who cannot be expected to have assets subject to tax execution in the Czech Republic and which can hardly be affected by sanctions for payment offences. In these cases, the reputation of such an entity appears to be more effective than its property. Information that the entity is an unreliable payer will be published on the Internet. This is a similar arrangement as is currently the case with value added tax. The effectiveness of the Act is proposed on the 15th day following its publication. However, the law is not retroactive, only the facts that occur after the law is effective, even if it takes effect during the tax period. In the draft Digital Services Tax Act, because of the increase in legal certainty of the addressees, the limitation of the applicability of this Act is explicitly enshrined in relation to a specific tax period when the tax period of 2024 will be the last tax period. The digital service tax therefore constitutes a carry-over measure to be applied during the period before agreement is reached on the global solution to taxation of digital services, which is currently being prepared by intensive work, particularly in the field of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. However, it should be noted that these works have been under way since 2013. [[15.30 hours]] The reason for limiting the applicability of this law is, in particular, that the most effective solution in response to the new challenges of the digital economy for current tax systems are measures that will be promoted and implemented in a broad international context. The national adjustment of its own temporary nature aims to create, together with other European Union States which introduce or introduce their own regulation, pressure on international institutions and to speed up work on global solutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u3	There. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Václav Votava. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, members of the Government, allow me to introduce you to a very brief report, because the Minister of Finance has already spoken very carefully and very closely about the principles of digital taxation, as is the proposal for the 658 Digital Services Tax Act. I'd just like to remind you of the most important things. The proposal therefore introduces a digital tax of 7 per cent on selected internet services provided in the Czech Republic. It will be subject to companies with a global turnover of more than 750 miles. EUR per year, reaching a turnover of at least 100 million per calendar year in the Czech Republic. CZK for services rendered, i.e. taxable services. Dani will be subject to individual services if they exceed the minimum level of their taxation. It must be said that Internet giants do not pay taxes in our country to an extent that corresponds to their profits in our country, which I think is unfair to other companies in the Czech Republic that pay taxes. It must also be said that the Czech Republic has long supported the finding of a common international solution by negotiations at European Union and OECD level, but unfortunately it will take some time, so this coalition comes up with its own solutions. As I said, the bill introduces a 7% tax on companies with a fixed turnover in three specified areas - the Minister has named them here. In doing so, digital taxation will only be subject to the provision of these services provided that the minimum threshold for their taxation is exceeded for the payer concerned, which I would like to stress. In the case of a targeted advertising campaign to provide user data, this limit is, in both cases, a turnover for a given service in the Czech Republic of at least 5 million. Crowns. Finally, I would like to say that the proposal tabled is therefore in line with the Government's programme statement, which has committed itself to actively addressing the phenomenon of the digital and shared economy, and the effectiveness of the law will depend on the legislative process. The expected start of the digital tax in the Czech Republic is in the middle of 2020, and the estimated annual return of the digital tax to the state budget for 2020 was already included in the state budget of 5 billion. Crowns. Thank you. So much for my brief intelligence report. Mr Vice-President, I am reporting directly to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u5	Yes. And as rapporteur, you have the right to speak at any time. So I am opening up a general debate, although there are two Members who have signed up, but the rapporteur can speak at any time, so you can have priority right now. You want to get out now? [[Yes.]] The rapporteur has the right to speak at any time, so please take the floor and prepare Mr Tomáš Martínek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u6	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, colleagues, and colleagues, the digital economy is changing our lives every day, and Internet giants are making excessive profits in our country. But if we look at the extent to which these companies pay taxes in our country, they don't match their profits remotely. When I look at our Czech market - and I'm sure you've also noticed it in the media - for example. List pays 30 times more in taxes than Internet giant Google. We can certainly agree here that the tax system thus set up is not fair, both to our companies, which are honestly paying taxes here, but above all to the citizens who hold the state register their work and consumption above water, much more than these multinational corporations. They do not have the financial and personnel resources that big companies have to optimize their tax burden. That is why I am glad that social democracy came first with digital taxes. Even now I remember vividly how we were mocked for this idea, and I think that we could mostly agree on the principle of this tax here in the lower chamber. We are not the only ones who have not noticed that capital drains from the digital environment are a problem. The whole of Europe reflects this problem. Unfortunately, we have not yet reached just a common Union solution. That is why this government, the coalition government, comes up with its own proposal. That is why I am glad that we are not alone in accessing this tax. For the record, France has a 3% digital tax, and unlike our proposal, it pays retroactively. Austria then introduces a 5% tax on online advertising revenue for Internet giants. Our proposal for a 7% tax will concern both placing targeted advertising on the Internet, and will also be subject to some platforms of the digital economy that have been avoiding paying taxes by way of a detour until now. The introduction of higher taxation of digital services is a clear success of social democracy. We wanted to light up the drain of tax-free capital from the country, and we also found a real solution. Although, of course, some laugh about it. Ladies and gentlemen, you may have noticed in the media recently, as I have seen, that the United States of America has threatened us with a trade war because of this tax, even though it is probably just unofficially so far. I don't blame them, they are very well aware of how easy the Czech Republic is for their companies. Personally, however, I think we should not give in to this imaginary rattling of chains. Enough tax-free money has already flowed from the Czech Republic, and this must also be stopped. We're not a politician for diplomats, we're a politician for people. The fact that we want the values that are created in our country to be consistently taxed in our country cannot be surprising, and that these corporations in the digital market also participate more in the development of the Czech Republic and in the growth of the standard of living of our citizens. Annual yield is expected to range from 2.4 to 6.6 billion according to the Ministry of Finance calculation. Crowns. The resulting budgetary impact then ranges to half this interval, which is about 5 billion. Crowns. I have already mentioned in my report that the budget is expected next year with about 5 billion. The crown of yield. These are funds that we can, of course, use to raise salaries, to valorize pensions or to invest. Ladies and gentlemen, the current situation is clearly unsustainable in an increasingly globalised and interconnected world and leads to ever greater and more diverse opportunities for tax avoidance. That's why we come up with this tax. And I would like to ask all of you, with this power, to support her. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u7	There. I now have one factual point here, so Mr Jan Hrnčíř will be given the floor and Mr Tomáš Martínek will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond briefly to what has been said here to the so-called. digital tax. Basically, we support this digital tax because it turns out that there are no standard effective tools where the tax could actually be collected effectively in the digital environment. It is immoral that multinational corporations here are simply making billions of profits that are paid by our companies, by our consumer, and de facto taxes do not pay almost any. That's okay, of course. The problem is that the proposed 7% tax would be one of the highest in Europe at the moment, which, of course, Donald Trump has already responded to. Američan threaten us with retaliation duties, etc. Of course, we are a sovereign state, that is, we have a legitimate right to tax, but when most countries have 3% of this tax, neighbouring Austria 5%, I do not see at the moment the scope for giving the tax this high and having it the largest of all European states, because ultimately, of course, it will fall on advertisers, on our companies and, of course, on the domestic consumer who will pay it in the finals. That is why we are responding to this with an amendment proposing a 5% tax, as is the case in neighbouring Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u9	The President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura is now interested in speaking with priority rights and Mr Tomáš Martínek will prepare himself. He's been ready for a long time. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u10	Hello, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, allow me to give a brief speech on this proposal. I think the idea of a digital service tax is correct. However, in the form presented, in the time at which it is presented, it is quite risky. And for us citizens, I will want to hear assurances from the Minister, perhaps from the Prime Minister, that if Czech legislators approve such a proposal, there will be no countermeasures from the American side. I think that much better is the lengthy, complicated negotiations at OECD level, that the solution could also be accepted by the United States, not by chance the law is called GAFA according to the four largest American companies in this business, and... I think it is also in the explanatory report, the first European country to introduce a digital tax, is France. Even backwards. And if we read the reports from this week, just this week, then after the US administration threatened with retaliation, especially in the customs area, France and the United States agreed to suspend this law. We also have great Czech companies in the IT industry, for which the US market is absolutely essential, and an unreasonable decision from our side could lead to damage to their legitimate business interests and economic results. I think we need to consider all this when we decide, for example, in the third reading of this bill. We certainly do not resist the debate, we are ready to rationally debate it today, at second reading, on the Committee on Budgets, but we must perceive the risks. Yes, it is unfair to Czech taxpayers that these companies, if I say simply GAFA, pay almost no taxes on the territory of the Czech Republic. Perhaps some colleagues ask - Google, Amazon, Facebook, and Apple. I think Američan call it no digital tax or digital services, but that it's aimed, I don't know if it's a coincidence or not, but it's all American companies and it's the companies that are very successful in doing business on the Czech market and pay almost no taxes here. We're perfectly aware of that. Therefore, I say that the principle is correct, but the negotiations at OECD level have unfortunately not led to the outcome. And it is not the Czech Republic that has it in its hands that will come there, it will present something and all the other partners... These meetings are gonna be complicated. There's a presidential campaign going on in the United States this year. We can think of what we want to think about this, but one of the strong topics of the previous and this presidential campaign will be to protect the US market, and I would not like to make it our decision, even though I say I understand the reasons, I understand that this would be a settlement in favour of Czech taxpayers, so that we do not make it difficult for other companies to access the US market, reduce their sales, or increase the price of their products. Even so, if we approve it, it will very likely end up in prices for Czech users. That's what we have to say, that's just the way it is. I think it would be a better way to think about reducing the tax burden on Czech tax entities. That seems safer, much better. Here, yes, we can select units of billions according to the proposal, but the impact on the business market and the losses of Czech companies on the US market may be much higher than these drawn units of billions in the budget. Even the rate is extremely high. Let's face it. None of the countries where this is being debated, and we are by far the only country in Europe where this is being debated, that has to be honestly admitted, does not think, Madam Secretary said it - I wanted to demonstrate a consensus with the opposition, it often does not happen to us, but in this case it does. They don't think of such a high rate anywhere else. But the number isn't important. There's no need for seven, five or three. The principle and the fear of action, of countermeasures, especially from the American side, are important. And it's not funny. It's not easy. It's not something that if the Prime Minister says today or the Prime Minister today, I don't think, even if they really think it's something we can count on. I think this has to be negotiated in advance before it's voted on. Yes, we are not a decisive market in Europe, let's face it, not even for these Internet giants, but they will defend their interests and will be helped by the US administration. That's pretty obvious. Yes, let's let it go to second reading. I would perhaps if the Minister agreed that we could extend the deadline between first and second readings. And I would like the government to inform us about the specific actions it has conducted and how it will assure us and what guarantees we will have that if such a bill were to be adopted by the House, there would be no countermeasures. At the same time, and I say this for the second time, but I want us to remember this, the Czech companies that do business in the same business rightly say that they pay 19% tax here, and they actually pay nothing. But the solution is really at OECD level, or at least at the level of EU-US relations. If we are the only European country to have that law valid and effective, I fear the countermeasures will come. And since our market is not so important, it can be very strong and very dangerous for some of the business entities. And we would consciously or unconsciously, I would say that we know about this, so it is no longer unconscious, should not make business difficult to anyone, anyone in the Czech Republic. So much for our warning of the risks. Still, we support that principle, but I'd much rather it be arranged on an international basis, because otherwise we can cry over earnings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u11	Now one point of fact, Mr Patrik Nacher, and Mr Tomáš Martínek will be prepared. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u12	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor. I'm just a little bit of a thought in response to the Prime Minister's speech. I'd like to thank him for the reconciliation tone and for the fact that he actually agreed to the very principle, because I don't think that we can disagree with that principle. The proof that it's right that we're dealing with this is that we're not the only country. If we were the only country, I understand that someone can blame us for discovering a bike or something. We also agree that this is an obvious injustice from the point of view of the taxpayer and that the principle of taxation should be given where the values are created. And I think we can also agree that, in my opinion, these negotiations have been going on for years, and the proof is that only serious negotiations took place at the moment when those countries adopted the digital tax, that the digital tax is a kind of pressure at the moment when it stopped, it is constantly happening, but the result is not tangible. This seems quite clear to me, and we as a sovereign country simply come up with a proposal that may provoke further negotiations. The argument that I've heard can trigger some countermeasures, some reciprocity for me - not from your mouth, but from the mouth of the United States - seems weak to me. It's just, like, "we know it's unfair, but we're big, you're small, so let's just leave it like that, 'cause otherwise we'll get angry" kind of makes me feel weak. I would like to see an argument there that concerns, for example, the development of a shared economy, a digital economy, etc. Some argument about content, not just fine, you introduce us to this, we make countermeasures. So many short notes. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u13	One more factual point: Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Sorry to drag you out of time. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u14	For Mr Nacher. It does not seem weak to me precisely in light of this, France is undoubtedly more important to the United States than the Czech Republic. It's logical. There's nothing wrong with that. According to population, number of consumers, strength of the economy. And yet the law is not effective at the moment. Those risks just exist. And I don't think that's a weak argument. And I've talked twice about the injustice. I completely agree with you that this is unfair to Czech tax entrepreneurs - some. But if we fix the injustice now, we can create problems for other entrepreneurs. And that's why I've been talking about the risks, and that's why I'd like to hear the steps, not just the assurance of what's going to be done to keep it safe. If we should be discussing rates with partners from the United States, the amount of local income and stuff like that. I think so. We can draw it any way we want. We can say that this is great and that we will eliminate injustice. And it may be true that we have eliminated the injustice - in one segment. But we can cause big problems for all our exporters on the US market. And it's not negligible. When you look at how much we export from the Czech Republic to the United States, it is not nearly as much as it is to the European Union, but it is not a negligible number. And it affects specific companies, which we could significantly complicate their business by making our bad decision. That's what I'm talking about. About the risks. That propitiatory tone - thank you for your appreciation, because I think that injustice exists and that we have to deal with it. We agree on that. The question is when, how and with whom. And we should go find honest answers for that. That's why I said that we would extend to 80 or 90 days the deadline between first reading and second reading, we will not harm anything in my opinion and give the government a bigger one - because it must be negotiated by the government, we in the House are unable to arrange for countermeasures not to come. I'm really afraid of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u15	Mr Tomáš Martínek will now appear and prepare Mrs Věra Kovářová. Finally, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, may I also speak for the pirát of the Digital Services of Multinational Corporations. As pirát, we understand the need to address issues where Czech companies are at a competitive disadvantage compared to multinational corporations that do not pay adequate taxes here. For example, the company Seznam.cz pays taxes in the Czech Republic about 30 times more than Google. Google or Facebook then fulfills most of its European tax obligations in Ireland, where, thanks to the use of tax havens such as Bermuda, governments there, with special reliefs for multinational corporations, pay significantly lower taxes. Transnational companies based in Ireland thus have a significant advantage over Czech companies on the Czech market. We would like a global solution to be adopted at OECD level, or at least the European Union. Only discussing the proposal can support efforts to find solutions to a moderate inequality in this competitive environment. Therefore, I also asked the Ministry of Finance on the subcommittee on the digital economy in February 2019 to start preparing national legislation. This should support the search for a common solution at the Ecofin meeting. However, we draw attention to our good economic relations with the United States, where most of the owners of the companies that would be subject to tax come from. The amount of the proposed turnover taxation could amount to an disproportionate income tax equivalent of more than 30 per cent for some companies concerned. It is therefore necessary to adapt legislation according to the other countries of the European Union. A proposal cannot be submitted at an enormously high rate of 7 per cent, which no other country of the European Union has. We will therefore propose a reduction of this rate to 5%, which is also introduced by other Member States of the European Union. In view of recent developments in relations between presidents Trump and Macron, where France has postponed the effectiveness of the equivalent of this tax and its introduction in order to find solutions at OECD level, I propose that we extend the deadline for committee discussions by 20 days, if any, if the petitioner agrees, even more. The negotiations themselves can support the pressure to find an international agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u17	Are you suggesting we extend the deadline by 20 days? [[Yes.]] Okay. Now I have been given priority rights by Minister Petříček and then Mrs Věra Kovářová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u18	Mr President, Members, only briefly about the questions that fall here about the possible effects of the tax that we would level out in terms of digital services, because this is, in fact, a settlement of the conditions for operators operating on the Czech market in this area. And in that I mean in principle, at least from the performances, the House agrees. So there's a principled consensus here. I would simply add, as there were arguments on the withdrawal of the proposal from France, however, we can also say that the UK is continuing its plan, so did the finance minister of Great Britain. A similar tax has been in force since the beginning of this year in Italy. And, of course, our aim is to create an international framework in which fair conditions would be created for all digital service entrepreneurs. However, the OECD negotiations have not been conducted since 2013. And there is also a clear signal that the European Union and its Member States want to renew these negotiations. So if the House decides to support this proposal, it will basically signal to our partners that we are introducing an interim solution until a fair system is established to regulate business in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u19	Now with priority rights, Minister Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u20	Thank you for the floor. I originally wanted to react in the final word, but I will respond now. If Chairman Stanjura listens to me, I'd be glad. Thank you. I also appreciate the fact that we have a constructive debate here after a long time. There's one thing I'd like to explain. Since I was Minister of Finance, I even think that I have been at a meeting as a deputy, we have supported the OECD platform. It has been negotiated since 2013. We're active. We perform, support, emphasize, and so on. Last year, when Bruno Le Maire, the Minister of Finance of France, came up with a European solution, I also very actively supported it. I said yes, well, the best thing would be OECD, but if we don't have OECD, let's make a deal. I couldn't do it. X states must have unanimity there, that's fine, but it just blocked the x states. Well, it's been seven years since 2013. Seven years of negotiation. And the United States of America, with all due respect, has it in their hands. You named the companies. These are American companies. But, in theory, our regulation does not have to fall on all of these companies, and it may fall on other foreign companies from other countries, not just American. It's not targeted really, it's not tailored to these companies, although of course some of them will fall there. And the U.S. has it in their hands. And they have in their hands an effect on solving the OECD platform. We have also dealt with US embassy legislation at technical level. Their experts were there. We explained this legislation to them. So we don't have any official information that anything's going on with us. Technical cooperation was there. When my tech team was processing the proposal, we were talking to their Embassy experts and explaining to them the whole adaptation and the two essential things that we consider the modification temporary for four years and that we are ready to cancel it at any time when it is essentially agreed and adopted by the OECD. What you said, Mr President, I checked with France yesterday, with a permanent representation, I was in Brussels, so they checked it out for me, France actually accepted it as a retrospective, which we do not want. And after a meeting of US and France's leading representatives, what we have from available sources, they agreed to postpone by the end of this year the maturity that is already on the line for this tax, provided the OECD's solution is adopted. That means it's a turbospeed compared to what's been happening so far. We don't have any other signals. [[16.00 hours]] I would also like to draw attention to Commissioner Hogan's statement, who made it clear that if there were any action against any country of the European Union by the United States, it would address this, the European Union as a whole will respond to this. This means that we are members of the European Union, and we would certainly not be alone in this. This means that the problem would shift to the European Union's platform. And I am convinced that we need to make it clear that we are serious. You rightly said that this is unfair to Czech companies, Czech companies of a similar type, or smaller type, which pay large taxes here, and do business alongside them companies that pay nothing here. And I have already compared it several times to the fact that an international speedster will not pass through the Czech Republic unless there are tracks. And these companies are doing some IT business here. So let's get some taxes out of this. That's just fine, and we're showing that we're serious, and at the same time we're saying, we only want it for four years, and if that's - and we've assured the technical teams from the embassy - basically put in place, the global solution, we're gonna back off and cancel our adjustment. And I even think that the ice really started to move because I was at Ecofin, the Council of Finance Ministers, and it was one of the points - just the support and the pressure to create a nationwide solution. And we clearly, openly and always support and support this. This means, however, it is our national law, it is fair to Czech companies and we have to show that we are serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u21	Thank you, too. Good evening, everyone. Before the microphone arrives, Mr Lipavský, who is logged in with a factual remark, I will introduce you to a note. Mr Výborný apologies today from 15.45 to 16.30 for working reasons. Now please Mr Lipavský, Mr Stanjura will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u22	Mr President, honourable Members, I must say that I am pleased with the degree of consensus of this debate. I would like to make a point of fact, just to supplement the OECD schedule, when this year is the year when the gross framework is to be agreed in 2020. At some point at the end of the year, the G20 summit should even take place, i.e. the most important countries. And only then another two years, 2021 and 2022, would be created by an international instrument, an international treaty that would then arrive here in Parliament, which we would ratify, and solve the problem. So if this goes through the schedule they have in mind in the OECD, and, of course, we're members of the OECD, and we're very active members of the OECD, I commend it, it's still the four or three years after which the problem would remain unsolved. At European Union level, of course, the problem would also be solved, but there are countries such as Ireland, Sweden, Denmark, which, for certain reasons, simply opposes the tax. And then we have to make the national level. So that's why we support it. My colleague Martínek said that the rate is too high, so we will propose a reduction of 5% and I believe that we will be able to extend it to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u23	Thank you, too, and with another point of fact, President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u24	I think we're all saying about the same thing, maybe we're different in terms of how, when and how. But I was wondering, Madam Secretary, whether this is an intention, or by chance, whether the petitioners realized that the tax could also be imposed on Czech companies that pay taxes here, but at the same time their global turnover is higher than EUR 750 million a year. We also have Czech companies, they also finance advertising from some free services in the Czech Republic. That means, even though they pay normal taxes here, the vast majority of the employees are here, they pay taxes for them, so they would still be hit by a new digital service tax. If anyone realized it. Whether you realized whether you really want them to pay extra for what they have. Sounds like an unintended effect to me. Or intended? I'm kind of curious about that. Because there are Czech companies that are so successful and pay taxes here that they could still pay the new tax on what is already paying.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u25	Madam Secretary wants to respond with a point of fact, you can. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u26	Yes, thank you for the question, Mr President. Of course, we were concerned. That's why we have a very detailed proposal, and I finally modified it to the government because we had the parameters a little differently in the interdepartmental commentary procedure, so we discussed it in detail with the Confederation of Industry and Transport, with the Chamber of Tax Advisors, with others, certainly also the Chamber of Commerce etc. We can't write a proposal, that would be unconstitutional, that would be for some maybe another deeper dispute, we can't write a proposal: it's a tax on that and that. We just have to write it in general, the subject. That is why we have discussed this in detail in order to minimise these risks, but of course it must be laid down in general. So it's set out as it is, discussed, I've accepted a whole series of comments that sounded the most from the Confederation of Industry and Transport, where we've been debating for the longest time. And finally, before I sent the law to the Chamber of Deputies, I had their preliminary consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u27	Thank you, too, and this will bring us back to the general debate. Mrs Kovářová is now signed in, Mr Juříček will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to speak for the Mayors' Club and independent of the draft Digital Tax Act. I think there are similar opinions here that our club has. In short, and well, the time is turbulent in terms of economic development and progress, and I think that the digital tax as a new tax will certainly not be the last tax to be introduced in the future. We certainly don't know some of the parameters yet, whether it concerns the taxation of robots etc., so I think - I am not saying that in this parliamentary term, but in the tens of years there will definitely be a change as such. That is why I think that digital tax is the right way, because it equals an unfair environment in the country. And, as has already been said, for example, the List will pay 30 times more tax than the Google branch, while both companies are comparable in terms of market share. But, as has also been said, Google admits most of its sales from the Czech Republic in Ireland. These are the basic parameters that were mentioned here. That 7% higher, global yields above 750 miles. EUR and turnover in the Czech Republic 100 million. Crowns. One of our comments, and I will also repeat myself after the rounds, that we would like to reduce the tax to 5%, on the grounds that France introduces, for example. 3%, Austria 5%. So we would suggest 5%. The Minister, I think, has clearly explained the reasons why transitional validity is being introduced by 2024. Of course, as far as this is concerned, we can ask ourselves why we have a tax of 7%, whether it also serves a little bit to get extra money into the state budget. Of course, the argument of introducing a tax for the settlement of the business environment and strengthening the fairness of the tax system is, of course, valid and we can only support it. What was said here, however, that the Czech Republic is not the only country with a digital tax. But there aren't many countries. France has retreated temporarily. And if we do not actually agree at European level, but that is of course not enough, and the Minister says that, therefore, the platform is at OECD level, then of course I hope that it will be possible to do so over the four years. And I expect that there will be some negotiations between the United States and the EU, and then the Minister will assure us that some of our companies will not be affected by sanctions. [[16.10 hours]] Perhaps the problematic point for us is that the proceeds will go all, purely by income into the state budget, so it is possible whether it would be wrong to consider that if it was a digital tax, so whether the money should also be directed in this direction, i.e. for investments in key infrastructure, digitalisation and so on. And maybe I could warm up a little soup about municipalities and regions, see if it would be a good idea to include a digital tax in a shared tax system so that our regions, cities and municipalities and their citizens can also benefit from it. In conclusion, I confirm that we will release this proposal to second reading, support the extension of the deadline for discussion and propose a tax reduction of 5%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u29	Thank you. And now I ask Mr Juříček to prepare Mr Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u30	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. We may not find a Member here in the House who would agree to the introduction of a digital tax, because of course the level of justice needs to be sought, but nevertheless I have to say fair and squarely that since I know the Ambassador of the United States in the Czech Republic Stephen King and several times I have been contacted by Stacey Weston, his board of trade, with the fact that, of course, this is a very sensitive matter for them and that they would like an explanation of why 7 percent. [[no]] Most states have three or five. It is true that Hungary is considering 7.5 percent. It's basically about the amount because we're hanging out. So if I have any final information, Mr. Ambassador has reported to the Prime Minister for a hearing. I think we should also give room for the 20-day extension, because we need to realize the facts outside of digital companies in the Czech Republic, so we export 100 billion to the United States every year. And if the retaliation measures were somewhere in the range of 10 to 20 percent, it is the Confederation of Industry now doing analysis, and their first estimates are that exports could fall from 100 billion to 50 billion. But those are the first estimates. Since we just don't have the impact study in our hands at this point, I would be very careful in this regard if we were to stick out of that level of bush within the EU. Notaben, but on the other hand, it is a good thing that this has been triggered, because if it has been six years and nothing has been done so far, as I say, the level of justice must be sought, I would be very careful not to have the very export companies burdened by the fact that, of course, it does not occur immediately within one month, but it can mean risks. And since this year's budget is based on a digital tax of 2 billion and 5 billion in the next year, I think it is necessary to do exactly the right analysis, financial analysis and balance that is more advantageous for us, if 7 percent or 5 percent while maintaining some sort of neutrality of that potential and existing export to the United States. So as an entrepreneur and as a person who always tries to balance things wisely, I would recommend that we really do this extension of the negotiation period so - what we can do and then involve the entire EU in this negotiation, which will be complex. It's already been said here. The OECD didn't want to act for six years, and now that it's on the table, of course, it's starting to react. And I wanted to tell you fair and square that the reactions were also towards me, because you know that I'm an entrepreneur and that I know some people abroad. So I wanted to point it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u31	Thank you. I'm going to point out that this proposal for an extension of 20 days is here. Of course, a proposal for a longer extension can also be submitted. And now I beg Mr Kalousek, who is in the debate. Mr Klaus will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me three comments on the proposal. Note one. The State budget for 2020 is already counting on revenue from this proposal, which we are discussing at first reading. I have experienced a situation in all governments since 1990 when the state budget was approved, which counted on the income of bills which were not yet approved at third reading. Yeah, I remember that. It was a mischief, but such an established mischief. But to have a bill at first reading, whose revenue counts on the budget that was approved a month ago, I don't remember yet, that's the precedent that we have here for the first time, and I would very much like it to be the last time. That's a really special mess. So that was the first remark. Note the second concerns the fiscal impact on public budgets, which will be a plus. It'll mean a higher income. We are arguing here an effective and fair rate of taxation for digital companies, which have a much lower rate of effective taxation in the global economy. But if all we really care about is justice, then why isn't there a proposal on the other hand that would make a fiscally neutral impact? Why, in the interests of justice in the case of digital taxation, if we increase the revenue of the state budget and increase the overall rate of taxation in the country, why did we have to insist that people pay more fees at the cadastral office? Why couldn't we, if not cancel, at least reduce in the same financial volume the real estate transfer tax or any contribution tied to the job? Why is it always in the name of justice or the fight against addiction or any other substitute argument, why does it always have to be just an increase in taxes? While we're having a blackout somewhere, we're in a hurry to compensate for it by raising it somewhere else. Unfortunately, with this approach, the government is weakening its arguments, which are relevant here, and it amplifies the fundamental argument, which we have repeated here many times during the discussion of the tax package, that the primary objective is to waste as much money as possible into public budgets. And all the other arguments, however noblely made, are arguments mostly proxy. And now, the third point, essentially fundamental, because it relates to the draft. Yes, we all agree that the really effective rate of taxation for digital giants is totally unfair to another business and that there is a need to find some tool to straighten this injustice. And I am willing to admit that digital tax is the tool. I wish, of course, that somewhere else was compensated for by reductions and the like. However, I admit that digital tax is a tool to remedy to some extent the injustice and, if you want, not to pay the indulgence of digital tax monopolies, if possible, or to pay as little as possible. [[16.20 hours]] The question is that we do no more harm than good. What we are proposing here at 7 percent is not unprecedented within the European Union, not only in terms of the level of the rate - I remind you that they have approved 3% in France - but also in terms of the local turnover limit. [[Is it?]] Duty, and the parameter follows from the directive, none of us will move, all companies that have a global turnover of 750 miles across the globe will fall into this obligation. EUR and more, but then the question is, how much is the turnover in the territory of the country that introduces the local tax, and here the Ministry of Finance proposes that all companies whose minimum local turnover is 100 miles fall into it from these companies. crowns and more. Very low. I'm just going to compare it with France again. It's 15 miles in France. EUR, that's about 670 miles. So we're giving more than twice the rate that France has given, and as far as the local turnover limit is concerned, we're giving more than six times less than France has set. President Stanjura here asked a question to the Minister of Finance, if any. Even for the Prime Minister that he would like to hear a guarantee that if we approve this, there will be no reciprocal economic measures from the United States. And I would almost dare to say that in the case of these parameters, we can give that guarantee right now. If we approve it this way, if we actually approve 7 percent and 100 miles. A year's local turnaround, so the sanctions will come. It's not possible to think that I didn't. And which of the two economies and which of the two countries will be pulling in a shorter and longer end at that time, I guess I don't have to elaborate - looking into the eyes of businessmen and exporters in your benches. So I believe that the problem, however much we have to deal with it, and I am not avoiding it, really deserves a thorough discussion. I wish, which, of course, is not in the power of the Chamber of Deputies, that the relevant diplomatic lines should be heated during the discussion and that we have sufficient will and flexibility to adjust those parameters that are proposed in the law. The Minister of Finance has set an example perfectly correct here that Google pays 30 times less tax than our List, which has its registered office here and pays tax here, and that is a fact, and that is totally unfair. But we can also give another example. One of the most successful companies in modern technology, Avast, already has a volume, a global global volume, over 750 miles. EUR, so it falls there, and as a domestic company, of course, it has far more than 100 miles on the local turnover. It is a company that has its registered office in the Czech Republic, pays taxes in the Czech Republic, employs people in the Czech Republic, it is one of the largest taxpayers in the Czech Republic, and because it is doing so, we put a digital tax on her neck. That's serious, that's unfair from the other side. And we have to discuss this, too, because if it is in the interest of eliminating injustice in an effective rate of taxation, then we cannot remedy that injustice by committing other injustices. Sometimes when I have the honor to say something to students in economic schools, I like to use a non-verbal device. I'm gonna take this baby balloon, I'm gonna inflate it halfway, and I'm gonna say, look, the regulator here sees a problem, and in good faith, he's gonna press the problem with all his strength here on this piece. But he needs to see the system in one piece, because it's gonna bulge on the other side, and maybe the bump on the other side is gonna be a lot more intense and painful than the original problem you wanted to solve. This is the risk we're taking, and it's really not that easy with this draft. In order to put some pressure on the bad taxpayers, it is necessary to deal with this with an extraordinary degree of consideration for the whole system and for all the secondary effects of such a step and also with extraordinary diplomatic skill. I would like to ask that, and that is why, of course, I refer to the request that we extend the time of the hearing and, above all, that we should not waste the time of the hearing, nor as far as expert discussions are concerned, nor as far as diplomatic activities are concerned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u33	Thank you, too. Before Mr Klaus gets the floor, there are factual points. First Mr Martínek, then Mr Nacher. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u34	I have to say, I agree with a great deal, just maybe the Avast company that was mentioned. There I think it doesn't fill any of the three specific things that are there. The point is that it actually sells its own software products, so it does not provide a multilateral digital interface to a third party for further use and the sale of digital advertising is probably not part of it, or the volume that it sells to meet those limits. So I suppose it's like this, but I don't know. Maybe the Treasury will confirm it. Madam Secretary here says he confirms it. I might be more concerned with the Czech company Kiwi.com where maybe this problem could happen. That's probably where I'm concerned, but maybe the D.O.D. will disprove it, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u35	Thank you, and with another factual remark, Mr Nacher. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u36	Thank you. Well, I don't want to be a detailist, but I'd like to respond to President Kalousek through you talking about turnovers in those countries. If he's 100 miles away. And France, if I recall correctly, 15 miles. EUR, so if you multiply it, it's 375 million, which is 3.7 times, while the population is 67, 68, maybe 70 miles. according to Wikipedia, so that's seven times that. In other words, in our country, I think that the turnover from this point of view when compared to France is set in order. I don't even involve the purchasing power of the Francouz and Čech. This means that from this point of view, I think that the turnover within the Czech Republic is higher than in France. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u37	Thank you and, therefore, Mr Klaus again in the general debate, Mr Skopeček will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u38	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I, too, call it a very calm debate. I'm here to convey our position to the Tricolor movement. As you also know, I never go to a talker when I say the same thing all my previous speakers say. That is how I would like to define myself politically. I was delighted to note that the ODS is applying to some global OECD tax. So this isn't our policy. We think globalism is the way to hell. And as far as the digital tax itself is concerned, I must tell you that we had quite a heated debate because we are young and small movements, all the more ideally anchored, so we had a heated debate, which tax may even increase, which cannot. Of course, you all know my promise not to vote for anything that raises taxes. On the other hand, our policy is to protect the national industry, so here we are in complete ideal conflict, and because it is true that large Internet giants, Czech and foreign, have completely different conditions in the Czech Republic, pay taxes completely differently - and I say this as a person who is probably not the most beloved of the List, as I watch our media space. [[16.30 hours]] So our solution is this: we are willing to let this law, first of all, into second reading. Secondly, we are willing to vote for him if our amendment to this law is adopted, which sounds that the same amount that will be collected on this tax will be levied on the taxation of individuals so that it is fiscally neutral. So this is our position. It's not too hard to calculate that number. And we want to deduct it from the basic deductible item to the tax that every Czech person pays. So if we manage to reduce or tax Internet giants so that Czech citizens get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u39	Thank you, too. The performance raised factual points. Mr Benešík, Mr Kalousek, Mr Kalousek, Mr Kalousek, Mr Kalousek, Mr Kalousek, Mr Kalousek, Mr Kalousek, Mr Kalousek, Mr Kalousek, Mr Kalousek, Mr Kalousek, Mr Kalousek, Mr Kalousek, Mr Kalousek, Mr Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u40	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I think this discussion shows that, in principle, we are probably in agreement across the political spectrum. A similar position is held by most of you as KDU-ČSL. This business needs to be taxed. The question is the procedure, how to get there, and the timing. I also consider it irresponsible that the revenue side of the state budget is counting on revenue that we do not actually have yet. We haven't even adopted a law on them yet, we're still debating it. And if we have a global business here, and we have it here, and if we like it, or if we don't like it, it's good, and obviously it turns out that it would be good to also be globally taxed, or at least taxed according to rules that respect and use the majority. So it's obviously wrong, it also follows from the discussion, and from practice, when it's a global business, but then it's not a global tax. So she's a bit of a double-edged globalization. And if, then, those who do global business must also bear global costs. And KDU-ČSL is leaning towards setting the parameters of this law according to the rules that are agreed in the OECD by the end of this year, so that we do not throw the numbers seven, three, five percent here. Those are huge differences. And I think that those few months where the law can be much better, because we're gonna wait for the deal, it's definitely worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u41	Thank you, too. And now, with a point of fact, President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u42	I thank Mr Nacher for pointing out the mistake I have made. In France, that's not the local turnover limit of 15 miles. EUR, but 25 million. EUR. So it's about 630 miles or so. Czech crowns annually. That's 100 for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u43	Thank you. Those were all factual remarks, and at this point, they were the last. Mr Martínek applied before I could summon him. I'm sorry. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u44	I'd like to correct myself, too. Here I said Avast might not fall there, but I don't have complete confidence, so of course I wouldn't want to say something that isn't true. It's possible in theory he might fall in there for selling commercials. So we need to check it out. Therefore, I would also like to ask and ask everyone to support my proposal to extend the time limit for committee discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u45	Thank you. Now, therefore, Mr Skopeček, due to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u46	Thank you very much. I also appreciate the relatively substantive debate on the proposal to introduce a digital tax. I would just like to start by giving you a little thought to the fact that we have a situation where the Minister brings or comes up with a tax proposal, and he is not alone, and there are a number of countries in the European Union who are thinking about that tax. Negotiations on a common practice in the European Union have failed, but there is a European effort to ensure greater justice in some way in order for global companies, particularly those based in the United States, to pay taxes for the provision of their services in the European Union as well. And we're going the way that we're going to figure out a tax that we're going to burden them with, and we're going to damage them. And we're looking for justice in the greater taxation. However, it is a bit sad that neither us nor anyone in the European Union will lead to this situation in terms of why these successful innovative digital software companies are based in their vast majority in the United States and why they do not reside in the territory of certain European countries within the European Union. Well, that's probably not a coincidence. These firms probably have a relatively better business environment in the United States, a relatively more favourable tax environment, and therefore they prefer to reside in the United States and try to tax there, or in some other countries. I think, in addition to thinking about some new type of tax that would ensure greater justice, we should also look at it and think about whether there is no way to simplify the business environment, how to change the tax system in terms of making it more motivating for these countries to reside in one of the European countries. Because when we look at the market, of course, the largest global companies are in the United States. As a result, the United States is much more innovative than Europe, and, of course, these companies contribute to the fact that the United States is growing...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u47	Ambassador, I understand and call for peace at the rapporteur's table.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u48	Thank you very much. Of course, these companies contribute to the faster average rate of economic growth of the United States compared to the European Union. There have been various Lisbon strategies in the European Union that aimed at catching up and overtaking the United States many, many years ago. In these materials, the word innovation and innovative companies and start-ups, so in these words these strategies were full, but in the finals over the years nothing has succeeded in this direction. And the head start of the United States against the European Union is -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u49	So, now the restlessness is moving into the whole hall. I'd ask for more peace. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u50	So I'll say it from the beginning, because I've already been interrupted three times, and slowly I won't know where I left off. But I will conclude by saying that, in addition to finding regulatory-type tools, in addition to finding new taxes, we should respond in the Czech Republic and in the European Union to why we do not motivate us, why we do not have such an environment of taxation and business, so that these companies reside in the countries of the European Union. No one's ever talked about that here before. But if I admit that this is a bit more thorny, more demanding and that injustice needs to be dealt with more quickly, and I approach this argument, it is naive, in my view, to think that the Czech Republic will come up with its unique Digital Tax Act, its unique construction of this tax and its unique tax rate, without it being any use throughout our region, throughout the European Union, and we will think that the United States will accept this individual step. I will just remind you, it is not so long ago, perhaps a few days when the French President has actually called off the ambition to introduce a digital tax after the United States, if I am not mistaken, with a list of hundreds of items of French goods to which a retaliatory duty would have been imposed if France, as the first country in the European Union, had actually approved the digital tax. And I will add that France was counting on a 3% tax rate. The Minister has a rate of 7% in his proposal. So the 3% rate in France led to a very sharp reaction from the United States and the risk of another wave of customs wars. And we come up with a seven percent rate. I think that without any agreement on how this tax is to be constructed, and without any elementary negotiations with the United States, it is not possible for the Czech Republic individually to come forward with any such proposal without discussing in advance, in particular, with the United States, so as not to threaten Czech exporters with any retaliation. [[16.40 hours]] We know that these negotiations are running at OECD level. The United States begged and pressured France to wait until agreement with the United States to find agreement within the OECD's advanced organisation, and I think we have no choice but to wait for any outcome of the negotiations as well, because if we were to introduce this separately without agreement with the United States, the retaliatory measures that can harm the export-oriented country that the Czech Republic is, that risk is quite high. Of course, with a liberal economist, there are two arguments on the issue of digital taxation. One argument is that any other tax, any other distortion on the market, any other higher tax burden is wrong for the economy. On the other hand, I also have to admit that it is not durable for much smaller digital software companies in the Czech Republic to become global players and large digital companies to pay a much higher tax in size than global companies with an infinitely greater market value. However, as a liberal economist, of course, I will want to see the Minister, and if she doesn't come up with it, we will certainly come up with it, in addition to introducing a new tax and increasing the record-high tax burden in the Czech Republic today, so that elsewhere the tax burden, the tax burden, will decrease, because I see no sense in it to collect about 5 billion. CZK from foreign entities and only increase public redistribution in the Czech Republic. So if the Minister is serious about the justice and settlement of the competitive environment, in addition to the law on the introduction of a digital tax, he must come up with another law or with another paragraph that will abolish another tax in the Czech Republic so that our tax system is not more complicated or at least reduces the tax burden. I don't want to say, as my colleague Klaus, if it's a personal income tax. I think we can debate what kind of tax we need to lower at this point. For example, I consider the biggest problem of the Czech tax system to be high ancillary labour costs, high levies, which in particular employers pay for social insurance for their employees. But I don't want to narrow the debate down to any particular kind of tax. For us and for me, it will be a priority, in addition to the fact that a new tax arises, to increase the tax burden that has some distortion, to level up some injustice in our market, so that another tax is abolished or that another tax is reduced, so as not to increase the tax burden in the Czech Republic, so that the new tax does not only complicate the already complicated tax system. And maybe that's my question to the secretary if she's even counting on something like that. This will largely decide how I, and I believe, many of my colleagues will behave at further readings and at the final vote on this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u51	Thank you, too. We will continue the general debate. With a factual remark, Mr Ferjenčík is registered. Before he reaches the microphone - Mr Staněk votes with replacement card number 20. Please, Mr. Ferjenčík, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to appeal to the Minister, in order to agree that the deadline for July 1 is unrealistic, we allowed a longer debate in the committees, and we approved it with effect from January 1, which is a much more logical term for the tax law. In fact, I wanted to respond to Mr Kalousek, who mentioned that it was unprecedented. Unfortunately, in fact, in the same regime, we are now approving an amendment to the tax code, which will actually bring some 16 billion to the state budget, so while with the 2 billion. I think the state budget would handle the 16 billion. that's a fairly significant budget gap, plus another 8 billion. for municipalities and municipalities. So there I see it as a much more serious problem than with this press, even though it seemed a little smiling to me, when perhaps church restitution was not included in the budget, even though it was approved. So please, let us put this in fact on 1 January, whether we do not really have the highest tax in the European Union, whether it really is 3 or 5 percent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u53	Thank you. This is the last application at the moment, so if no one else is reporting for the debate, I am shutting it down at this time. At the same time, I call my colleagues to the hall. I ask if there is an interest in the final words by the Minister or by the rapporteur. The rapporteur is interested in the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, it was certainly an interesting debate about digital taxation. I don't think there's any major resistance to this digital tax besides Tricolor. Of course, a number of questions have been raised here, whether it is a question of an attitude that is only unofficial so far as the United States of America is concerned, because it is a number of these companies that come from this area. There was no motion to dismiss. There was a proposal to extend the time limit for committee discussions by 20 days. Personally, I don't think those 20 days are gonna change their attitudes. The vote will therefore be on the extension of the deadline for committee discussions by 20 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-009-017.u55	Thank you. I think all our colleagues have arrived. Those were the final words. As has been said, there has been neither a proposal for a re-evaluation nor a motion for a rejection, so we will now consider the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? [[No.]] We command the Committee on Budgets. Initiating vote. I ask who is for the commandment to the Committee on Budgets. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 55 vote, 182 Members are registered, for 168, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal has been directed to the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantees. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to another committee for discussion. Does anyone have a proposal for another committee? [[No one's checking in.]] If this is not the case, we will still deal with the proposal for an extension of the deadline for committee discussions by 20 days. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the 56 vote, 182 Members and Members were enrolled, for 76, against 5. The motion was not accepted. Thank you. This concludes the discussion of this press at first reading. We'll continue with the next point
