ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u1	494. The draft law amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended /German press 1095/2/ - returned to the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments, his resolution delivered as House press 1095/3. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. Mr Tomáš Goláň should be present. [[Senator]] And I will ask the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Alena Schillerová to take her place at the rapporteur's desk, Mr Goláň is here. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] Senator, please take a seat at the rapporteur's desk. I welcome you here. I won't give a word to the Vice Prime Minister until it's quiet! I understand maybe some disillusionment, some joy with the approved agenda of the meeting, but if, colleagues, you have a discussion on a subject other than excise duties, so fundamentally in the foyer, including the party colleagues of the Vice Prime Minister. Just a little more, just a little more...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on the Senate's return to the draft law amending the Law on excise duties and on the basis of the Senate amendment also the current Act on compensation bonus. I have already presented enough amendments to the Consumer Tax Act when discussing this bill here in the Chamber of Deputies, so I will briefly sum up that it is a response to the current situation where beer cannot be distributed to closed restaurants, hotels and similar facilities in view of government measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus, on the contrary it is necessary to return beer from these establishments to the conditional exemption regime for the purpose of its liquidation or recasting, which is linked to the right to refund excise duty. This option has already been introduced into the Consumer Tax Act during this spring as a temporary measure effective by the end of this year. However, in view of the persistent situation associated with the occurrence of coronanavir, it is necessary to extend this measure beyond 31 December 2020. From the point of view of the business environment, the proposed regulation will increase the legal certainty of the entities as well as administrative simplification of the whole process, enabling the return of beer to the conditional exemption scheme. The amendment of the compensation bonus act proposed by the Senate amends the rule according to which entitlement to the compensatory bonus does not arise if other aid related to mitigating the consequences of the current epidemic has been received on the same day. This rule is part of the law, in particular, in order to avoid accumulation of aid in some cases and to favour certain operators on the market, while, of course, the budgetary aspect also plays a role. However, on the basis of discussions which took place on this subject, in particular on the Senate's premises, I have decided to give priority to the aspect of greater support for entrepreneurs who currently need help, and to look back at the fact that it has been tightened up again, which we did not yet know, but now it is clear that the decision was correct. The Ministry of Finance has thus collaborated on the preparation of the compromise amendment by Senator Golán, which alleviates the rule and allows the constituencies of the compensatory bonus and support from the Antivirus, COVID - Rent and infirmary for the Ministry of Justice for all autumn bonus periods. I subsequently supported this proposal in the Senate, and I am doing so now at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. I therefore recommend to the Chamber of Deputies to give their consent to the bill in the version returned to the Senate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u3	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and request the floor of Senator Tomáš Golán to justify the Senate's position. Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, honourable Members, I would like to thank the Ministry of Finance and the Minister for helping to draw up this amendment. Even then, when we were discussing this, we felt that these measures could come in, which actually took place since Friday, and that is why we wanted to replace the entrepreneurs with the blackouts that were caused by the second closure. To tell you the truth, the Senate was all over the support of this proposal, because out of 72 senators present, it supported this proposal by 72 senators. So I also ask you to support this proposal so that we can help entrepreneurs in their bad situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u5	I thank Senator Tomáš Goláň and ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Budget Committee, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá, if she wishes to comment. Madam President, would you like to comment on this Senate proposal? Apparently he doesn't want to, so I'm opening a debate that I don't have a written application for, and now I'm sorry, so... okay. Mr. Vojtěch Munzar, then Mikuláš Ferjenčík, yes? Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues, I will be very brief. I am very glad that the Senate has enforced what we have failed to enforce in the previous reading when the law was here for the first time. We have been saying from the beginning that it was very unfair to tradesmen and that it was Sofiine's choice to choose either a compensatory bonus or support their employees from the Antivirus program. I am very sorry that it took so long, because, of course, every day when businessmen lived in financial uncertainty, it obviously reflected on their activities and their thinking for the future. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] I've listened very carefully to the Minister here... I listened very carefully to the Minister here in the opening words. I have to say, I'm very surprised, unkindly, one thing I have to stress here. We have tabled here on 26 November, when this law was discussed, a similar amendment that would allow the constituencies of the compensatory bonus and other programmes. At that time, the Minister said a negative position to admit, before the Senate talks on the second day, that a change of opinion is possible and that he would support it in the Senate. It's a good thing it's here today, but the impact is three weeks late. Three weeks of delay between when this could have been accepted and the self-employed could have been sure for three weeks that these two programmes would be possible. And I am very sorry that this has come to such an extent that we are discussing a similar motion from the Senate three weeks later, which is very excellent. But Madam Secretary, please, can you explain to the citizens why you did not agree on Thursday, November 26th to accept the change on Friday, November 27th? It really only affects those businessmen that they don't know what to believe, and there's been a completely unnecessary three-week delay. Otherwise, I thank the Senate for pushing this very much. And, of course, it will help the businessmen. And I thank all those who, unlike the previous vote, will need to vote in favour today, including government colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u7	I thank Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Now Mikuláš Ferjenčík in the debate. And I don't have another application yet. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we also support this proposal. We think the ban was completely pointless. We're glad the Senate fixed it. I just wanted to use this opportunity to point out that there is still a huge injustice in the compensation bonus law, where the bonus must not be drawn by people in debt. That means someone went bankrupt, went into debt, paid off their liabilities, and normally does business, which they can do. And just because he's in debt, he doesn't get a compensation bonus. That's so unfair. We think it's a mistake. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u9	I thank Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík and ask who else is reporting for the debate. Madam Secretary of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u10	Thank you. I'll explain. I explained that when we set the second wave of compensation bonus, or for the second wave, because it was a number of times, we also considered budgetary implications at the time, and some debate that reflected discussion within the government coalition. And I did not support the proposal, Mr Munzar, for the simple reason that I have already - and I have admitted it indirectly, we have already had debates at the time, processed and worked technically as the Ministry of Finance on Senator Golán's amendment, which is simply better. It's just better, it's more sophisticated and it's legislatively and technically okay. So it's simple, that's all. And I think if we can measure the legislative process somehow, it'll work faster. Plus, we're giving it back, so no one's gonna lose the money. To remind Mr Ferjenčík. I've said it before, I'll say it again. We admitted this in spring's compensation bonus. We have had problems with the notification before the European Commission, where this has been ruled out for us. But there was a great benevolence in the spring waves, they were really tolerant, the European Commission, but we wouldn't get away with it now. So we really couldn't leave it there for those people in insolvency. I get dozens of e-mails every day because of it, but we could just have a real problem, they're certified programs, and that's why it was released. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u11	Thank you, Vice Prime Minister, Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Vojtěch Munzar's point of fact and registered is with priority rights Mr. Marian Jurečka. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u12	I'm just talking to the secretary. Madam Secretary, I agree on one thing. The Senate has done one more thing compared to our amendment to adding an infirmary, which is much better. But the fact that you gave a dissenting opinion here, and your government colleagues and government MPs, thanks to your dissenting opinion, rejected it, sent a signal to the tradesmen, a signal to the private sector that you disagree. So, please, it was possible in the Senate to add it to the infirmary. But by not agreeing with this, you actually told the tradesmen that day that you didn't want to be able to compete, and you kept that senseless selection for another three weeks between the compensation bonus and Antivirus. But in any case, in that view, I guess we'll be different. And I hope we vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And now, with priority right, Mr Marian Jurečka will speak in the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u14	Good afternoon, Mr President, Madam Secretary. When I went to the table, I heard the same thing, so I don't know if it's a reaction to what I'm going to say, whether the secretary already suspects or not, maybe part of it does. Maybe I'll widen it out. I'm the first time I've ever put in this proposal for a conspiracy when we approved the first compensation bonus. That means it was by the end of October. But all right, now it's done. Thank you for this, thank you for the positive opinion that was expressed in the Senate. Let every businessman and every citizen take a picture of the legislative process and the approach, when, in terms of the matter, we were told sometime around 20 October that it is not possible that the Ministry of Finance does not want this. Okay, it's come to this, time's ripe, it's here, thanks for that. But I just want to ask the Minister, because for the last two or three days, information from the government, especially Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček - I assume that you are in contact - about the fact that he wants to compensate primarily for 100% of the gastro-sector damage, was said two days ago. So if that's true, if these businessmen can count on it, which, of course, is a very important message to them. On the other hand, I wonder why, if these plants are closed in the next few days, why should the other compensation rate be in a few days, and why should the other compensation rate be for those who were closed ten or fourteen days ago, when the impact is still exactly the same for them. So I can say for us that we will certainly try to increase the compensation bonus for KDU-ČSL to at least 20,000, because for 10,000 pure it is very difficult to live on. And the situation for many businessmen who still have a husband at home, a wife on a parent's or a parent's, they have one or two children at home, so bring home 10,000 plus have some on average 5,000 per parent's, so it's really a very difficult situation to survive this. So if the government is serious about these media signals, if anything is being prepared, and if the secretary can comment on it. And then the last thing. I would like to ask that the reference here to the entrepreneurs who are in debt was in insolvency when it was said that the European Commission has a problem with the notification, if the Ministry of Finance can send me the official comments from the European Commission. And I am also prepared in the framework of the meetings that we are conducting with the Commission President and European leaders within the EPP, I am prepared to raise the subject and do my utmost to unblock this at European level. Because it seems illogical to me that, yes, he's in debt in the past, but he's in the debt process, he's been working properly today, and he's had income for himself and his family to pay for the debt process, so with his measures, the government shuts down his business, his livelihood, and says to him, "But I'm not giving you anything! How's that guy supposed to deal with it? So if this is explained in any way, and please, if there are official comments from the European Commission on this notification process, please send it to me, I will try to do my best to unblock it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u15	Thank you. The Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Alena Schillerová will still speak in the debate. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u16	Just for a little while. Mr. Munzar, I don't think I'm going to escalate anymore. I think the result is important. It just came out right, I supported Senator Golán's proposal, people get it backwards. I guess there's no need to explain anymore. Prime Minister Jurečka, you asked about the notification. We'll send you that, of course. I think we've done all we can for this, but of course you can verify it anyway. And you had one more comment. Now... can you remind me? There's something else important that you mentioned. [[Messenger's reaction. Jureky.]] Insolvency, we'll send it to you. And you had something else to keep me from forgetting? I just dropped it. [[Messenger's reaction. Jureky.]] Oh, great. You probably didn't watch the government meeting last night. I'm sorry. In fact, three programs were approved yesterday, and money was made available to them immediately, for about 10 billion. Maybe you missed it, so I'm happy to remind you. COVID - The rent will continue. And actually he the COVID - Rent as explained by Vice Prime Minister Havlíček was paid for July, August, where there were no restrictions, and now it will be October, November, December, where restrictions are. Both 50 percent, so you can do the math. Then we created another, second wave of COVID - Accommodation where hotels are provided for every day of closing from the beginning of emergency state, i.e. from October, 100 to 330 CZK by category, under the same conditions as in spring, or in spring, summer months. It is COVID - Rent, about 3 billion we provided, COVID - Accommodation about 3.5 billion and then there is COVID - Gastro, where each restaurant is provided according to the key as it has employees, 400 CZK per person, but it is not for those employees, it is actually at fixed costs. Only the number of employees will be taken as the key. Besides, there's a compensatory bonus, it goes all the time. It's set up so that if there's an emergency, it's still running and there's restrictions. Suffice it - it doesn't have to be closed, it was enough to limit the restaurant, that there were four people at the table, at 15 meters some restrictions, so they could draw a compensation bonus. Now we're gonna approve, I believe, this conspiracy. Antivirus continues. We're gonna talk about his extension. There is - 100 percent compensation for wages we gave at closing down the operation, and of course we approved the B as well as the quarantine. So these are all programs, and yesterday we added these programs, where 10 billion were allocated, and today we will still have a government. As soon as I get out of here, I'm gonna make a deal with the Prime Minister, and we're gonna talk about promoting culture. So it was prepping fast with colleagues today. So I think we're just doing what we can in this respect. And that you're gonna suggest a raise, I'm used to it. The opposition suggests that whatever the government does, it always increases. But there's one important but, and it's important, but we'll deal with it tomorrow, and it'll be a budget. Because if there isn't a budget, there will be a provisional budget. And you all know what it means. I'll mention it tomorrow in my opening statement. What it means is that we can talk about whatever we want, you can design whatever you want, there won't be money for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u17	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Now, Mr Ferjenčík's point of fact, then my fellow Members Jurečka. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u18	I only have two things for the secretary. One, if possible, to convey to Mr Havlíček the complaint that I receive in very high numbers, and that is that the COVID - Rent programme is extremely bureaucratic and that it is extremely difficult for those operators to reach it. So this is one thing I'd like to interpret. And the second thing about the bailout budget. We say, if there was a tax package hiding, we have 100 billion that could be used to save an economist, and we think that it would be better to deal with the money, that the state is simply saving those who are currently in crisis instead of handing them out on a flat screen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Marian Jurečka's point of fact is now being made and the Minister of Finance is reporting. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u20	Thank you. Madam Secretary, thank you for responding to the debate today. I appreciate that. However, I would like to ask - wouldn't it be easier if the government had a readable and predictable approach in those aids to the whole spectrum of entrepreneurs who are affected, who will have a basic principle parameter, such as in Germany or Austria? You have the data from last year, when it's simply said, in Germany, in Austria, they said, when your sales drop by 40 percent, we compensate you for either 80 or 75 percent of your sales. For us, it would be appropriate to say that the economic situation would be sufficient to compensate 70 per cent. You have the data from the EET in most of these subjects or the largest spectrum. That would give me the easiest logic, because at the moment you go that way to bed payment etc., each businessman is in a different situation. Someone's gonna have a device that he's reinvested, and it's got a heavy load on it. Someone is in a situation where he already has it paid for, he doesn't have write-offs, etc., and it's not entirely objective, the support, given how the entrepreneur planned his business plan and how the government's measures have now intervened. So it would give me greater logic, let's say, by the parameter: sales dropped by 40 per cent, a predictable compensation mechanism of 70 per cent of the sales involved. This is what they do in Germany or Austria. It seems much easier to me than to have several different categories where entrepreneurs really complain about the complexity and very problematic administration. And I have a favor to ask you. Do you think it would be possible for the Chamber of Deputies to provide information for the second wave, how many business entities requested, to submit a request under the compensatory bonus, how many were successful and how many were not, or what are the reasons? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Pekarová's point of fact, Adamová, which is the last one entered into the debate so far. You have the floor, Madame, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u22	Thank you for the floor. I will actually add to the previous speakers, because the reaction from the business world is such that what they hear here, whether at press conferences, whether from the media appearances of individual ministers, is more propaganda than reality. Because if we look at what it looks like in real life for them, then actually when you approved something yesterday, they really can expect that help in a better way in the order of weeks, in a worse case and in a more realistic case in the order of months. So the moment you do, there's some new programs floating around, a new extension of programs, etc., but the attitude to them is that now you can help yourself somehow, and now you can figure something out, and we might be sending you something in a few months. When those officials, those difficult requests you had to fill out before, evaluate them, then maybe many of them will be closed by now. And that's just your help. It's not really something to save the business. That's something that just sends them today with a little bit of bitter laughter, where the rest of the company wonders - what the businessmen still want. I mean, here's a long list of what the government's already given them. It only creates a great deal of hostility towards them in society, because others really feel, for it is helped, it has helped enough. But real examples? COVID - Accommodation that has been mentioned here. Help for spring coming at the beginning of December? So please, what's different from ridicule? So please don't say it like that, this is all great help when we know what reality is!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u23	I also thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Another factual point by Mr Martin Jiránek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u24	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. Me, too, to the secretary. Minister Havlíček said on Friday that he was planning generous plans for Monday, high compensation, and actually all he came up with in addition to what was here before are compensation for restaurants. Thank you very much for them, of course. But what about the other fields that are closed? Fitness centers for example and other sports organizations. You're going to talk to the Prime Minister this afternoon about COVID - Culture. What about the other ones? What about laundromats that aren't directly closed, but since you're gonna shut down hotels in the mountains, that's not gonna work at all? Talk to the Prime Minister about this, too. Thank you very much. I hope we listened to each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I'm asking who's still reporting for the debate. If I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Madam Vice Prime Minister, yes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u26	Just in a nutshell. The bureaucratic burden of COVID - Rent, I'll tell Mr. Vice Prime Minister, but maybe you don't see it that way in detail, there's a big shift. Compared to the spring wave, a rent reduction agreement between the landlord and the tenant is no longer required, but is granted directly 50 per cent. If sales - that's a big debate. We discussed it, it's very difficult to judge. Those influences are subjective entering sales. And Germany is beginning to retreat from this system that they have chosen. We have chosen this path. I'm counting on you to criticize every way you go, so I don't take it anymore. However, I don't mean that I don't listen when we can use something interesting. I would be happy to grant Mr. Jurečka a bonus. I get these records regularly, so of course we have the overviews of how much has been paid, how much has been rejected. Other comments were hard to grasp, so I will not respond to them. But I keep reminding you, tomorrow will be the essential condition for how we will provide support and invest in this area, because... And that's the budget. And Mr Ferjenčík's comment. The package is not in this budget, so don't make excuses for it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u27	Thank you for the final words of the Deputy Prime Minister and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Senator Goláň is interested in the final word? He does. Please, Senator. [[There are groups in the hall of the debating Members.]] I'll try to make peace again for your performance. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to be grateful, because we are just before the vote, so that the debates that you have not moved into the lobby will end and let the senator get off, so he doesn't think that there isn't enough room for the second chamber representative. You have your word, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you all for the debate. Finally, I would like to ask for the support of the Senate proposal. I want to thank you all for the year-round cooperation, because I don't think we'll see each other again by the end of the year. I wish you all a beautiful and merry Christmas and a happy new year and I look forward to new cooperation next year 2021.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u29	I thank the senator and we will proceed to the vote. I'm gonna put those I sent into the lobby from those discussions that weren't about excise taxes, so they can go back to their desks. We shall now also proceed to the vote under Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, pursuant to the House press 1095, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to the House press 1095/3.' I've started voting number 156 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 156 of 106 for 101 Members present, against no one. The motion was accepted. I state that we have accepted the bill as approved by the Senate. Thank you to the Vice Prime Minister, Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, thank you to Senator Goláň. I also wish him all the best for the Chamber of Deputies, happy holidays and for the new year certainly health and happiness. I'm done with point number one. 494. At the same time, I'll hand over the meeting's management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-001-494.u30	Good afternoon. We will continue today's negotiations according to how we approved the show. So now we have a point.
