ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 254 and 253 I am initiating a general debate - merged - on paragraphs 254 and 253. The first is still Mr Ondráček. With the replacement card number 18, Mr Špičák votes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u2	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to start - it is probably pointless to repeat the words that have already fallen here, but at the outset I would say some things that neither the Minister nor Mrs Jana Černochová mentioned, but they were mentioned by the President of the SPD. We are talking here in this motion for a resolution, which we are in a group of Members yesterday, and I am very pleased that we have been able to meet across all the political clubs that we have prepared, declare that... or call on the government to be prepared to send a request or a request to the Police of the Czech Republic. We cannot send the Army of the Czech Republic. Let us remember that in this situation, which is now, we cannot send the Army of the Czech Republic in a moment, because it would be necessary to read the Constitution of the Czech Republic and there we have described exactly the conditions under which and who approves the sending of the Army of the Czech Republic outside the territory of the Czech Republic. So that's why I'm saying we can't send an army, and it's also a message to citizens who say on social networks: "Send an army, withdraw them from Afghanistan, withdraw them from Mali," I don't know where the Czech army is, "Download them from there and send them to the Greek border." Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear citizens, this is not the case at this time. If we are ready and the Minister of the Interior says that if a request was made by Greece, so that he is prepared to strengthen our participation by the Police of the Czech Republic, and this is based on the fact that we would make a bilateral agreement between the Czech Republic and Greece, that is, a bilateral agreement. The Minister said that there are currently 18 police officers on the Greek border within Frontex, and the Czech Republic is ready to send another 20 police officers to Frontex. Frontex as such, my colleague has criticized him here, we need to get a good read on what Frontex is doing. Frontex does not replace border police and it is not the European Union border police. The members of Frontex, who are and operate in the area, give information on migratory flows, possibly appealing or monitoring them, but can only give it to the Greek party, the Greek government, or the government where they are doing the work. The very act of national border control is then a matter for each individual state. This means that Frontex moves, say, in Greek or international waters, it is able to find that there is an influx of migrants from Turkey towards the Greek border, passing information to the Greek party, whether to the military or to the Greek police, and then under its laws it carries out the activity that we see on the basis of information from the media. So Frontex, as we have equipped it, or as it is equipped with its powers, so does it. Let us not confuse Frontex with border police or border guards of the European Union or a Member State. We are all talking about and we know - I assume the Minister of the Interior did not mention this simply because he believes that we all know this here in the Chamber of Deputies, but there are some things that are worth remembering. The Czech Republic has sent its police officers to Greece in the past, but it also operates in North Macedonia and elsewhere. Those police officers who worked in Greece were very well seen as experts, as specialists, and helped their Greek colleagues with some, say, technical or record items related to the influx of migrants. And when we spoke in paragraph 253 yesterday when I suggested that point, I wanted the Home Secretary to be ready to send some colleagues, and I read you a specific email here, or if you want a message from a messenger, from one of the police officers who approached me, but I could read those emails here, and we could be here by 11:00, when the police themselves say yes, we, as police officers, feel solidarity with our Greek colleagues, and we are ready to go out to Greece if there's an interest, to help our Greek colleagues cope with the crisis that is coming, that is the massive influx of migrants. And this can only come out of a treaty that will be concluded between the Czech Republic and Greece. Maybe there's a contract like this already, and it's just a matter of adding up the numbers. Then we would not need the Chamber of Deputies, because, of course, the Government of the Czech Republic will decide, and therefore the appeal was directed to the Minister of the Interior - because we see how the situation is developing very quickly. In a few hours, the President of Turkey decided to bring thousands of people to the Turkish border. State Turkish television clearly said where people are to go, where they are waiting for problems, to avoid Hungary, to avoid the Czech Republic or other routes that have been mentioned, and you can also track them on social networks, because the Czech media have also informed them. So, relatively quickly, he brought hundreds or thousands of migrants from those facilities that were built on Turkey's territory to the border of Turkey and Greece, essentially, and the Turkish side is helping these people to travel to the European Union. Now, the point is that the influx of these people is so fast that the Greek side has to react to it in some way. It reacted very quickly by deploying its forces and resources, that is, by deploying the Greek police and the army, and it tries to attack it - I say it's an attack, but let's say to prevent the migration wave in some way. Of course, this situation is becoming very critical, and of course, in these situations, when migrants want to stand at all costs to get into the territory of the European Union, and this is an obstacle to the Turkish police and we see that they are using certain forms of violence, and on the other hand, there are Greek police and the Greek army that are trying to prevent them, yes, there can be certain excesses, because such a situation is very mentally tense for every intervening police officer and any intervening member of the army, and this situation may occur. Let us wish that such a situation does not occur, but that Greece is able, with its forces and resources, to defend the external border of the Schengen area and prevent the massive, uncontrolled, or now controlled influx of migrants into the European Union, and, of course, then the subsequent redistribution, which we are talking about, from resisting, could also happen, and for that it is necessary to thank the government for keeping the word that we do not accept and provide assistance at the point of conflict, or those affected countries. [[9.40 hours]] So it's just these basic things. What is the structure of these people was mentioned by the Minister that they are not Syřan, but that they are citizens of other states, Afghanistan, Pakistan and others. You can read it in the stenogram of what the minister said. Yes, the information is from colleagues on the Greek side. So our whole appeal is in this, and the resolution is also being made to the Ministry of the Interior, because it will eventually be a treaty between the Czech Republic and Greece, so that the Ministry of the Interior, if you want the Government of the Czech Republic to be able to address potential candidates for such a service abroad, knows about them and, if the Greek party asks or, as we have written in the motion for a resolution, our proactive policy, for example, communicate with the Greek party, so that we can be able, in a short time frame, which I consider to be the question of hours, say 48 hours, to organise, form a certain number of policemen who would go to help their Greek colleagues. Some may discuss and discuss this - but you may be crazy, you want to send Czech police officers to Greece, when the Czech Republic is currently still talking about the fact that the Czech Republic Police lacks a circus of 3,000 people, so you are still so heroes that you send another hundred, two hundred, three hundred, I don't know, let's not discuss that number or even units abroad? You see, I am well aware of the personnel situation, which is at the Police of the Czech Republic. With the Ministry of the Interior and with the leadership of the police, I often discuss this either personally or at the meeting of a committee or subcommittee on security or a subcommittee on police, and we know that the situation is very difficult. But there are some things that we can do about them that are also a matter of solution here in the Chamber of Deputies. I am already the three interior ministers - Minister Hamáček is the third in the order - he said that the Czech Republic should think about using former members of the Police of the Czech Republic, or members of the Prison Service, to create parallels such as military advances, active backups of the Army of the Czech Republic, where the potential of members could be used in mixed patrols in some areas that are not so affected by crime or where there is no need for such a number of people. These are hundreds and thousands of people to whom the Czech Republic is paying money for their service, and such a situation and the need for the number of people could occur fairly quickly, even with the coronavirus. If you imagine one member of the Prison Service gets sick, say, in a prison in Borech, which rotates there and does overtime work and gets sick with this disease, and all those who have come into contact with it should remain quarantined, then there may be a collapse of the Czech prison, because all the members of the Prison Service of the entire unit who might be there would remain at home. And the prisoners are already quarantined. They probably wouldn't spread the disease. But imagine, if there was a situation like this, who would serve there? I'd rather not even see the consequences it might have. But unfortunately, we don't have any backups that we could deploy if needed, and we could discuss this for a long and long time. And I suppose it's going to be a question next week, where we're going to talk about the Houses of thousands of 92 and 699, these are the weapons and the other things that have to do with it. [[Mrs Cernochová corrects that this is number 669.]] So, 669, I'm sorry. It's a weapons directive and the Firearms Act. So it's just in a nutshell. The purpose of our resolution, which we have made, and there has been a representative of the SPD - is not entirely unspeakable. We're politicians. Unfortunately, we can't do anything else. I, if that option were and someone said if we were able to go to help Greece, I would say yes, I would go to help Greece. But now I am a politician and unfortunately I have nothing left but to challenge the government, to challenge the European Commission and others, which are simply powerful and can influence some things. I don't like the state either, it's just a resolution, but if we don't just do the resolution, we're not gonna do anything. And I don't like that. I would like to help Greece, because Greece, at the Turkish-Greece border, is currently perhaps fighting for the future of the European Union and perhaps the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u3	I thank you and your speech has raised two factual points and the President of the Fiala has made a factual statement. First, then, Mrs Langšádlová, a factual point. Mr. Veselý will be ready. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been a lot of words, and some of them need to be answered. Yes, we must help Řecko. It is okay to help Greece, and it is okay that we are discussing this here today at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. However, it is not possible to talk about the situation in Turkey without context, without context of what is taking place in Syria, without context of what is taking place particularly at this time in the north of Syria, without the context of those steps that Russia and Assad are taking there. About 800,000 people are back in motion. Yes, I know that the Syřan are not mostly at those borders, they are people from Afghanistan, Pakistan, but it really is not possible to talk about this situation without mentioning that there are 3 to 4 million people in Turkey at the moment, and that the Treaty between the European Union and Turkey has contributed significantly to the stabilisation of the situation in the Eastern Mediterranean. Because we have talked about helping in the vicinity of conflicts many times, and here is a situation where there are 3 to 4 million people in Turkey who have escaped from the war areas, and I think it is not wise to challenge the treaty between the European Union and Greece. [[Turkey]] The proposals at European Union level were very broad and they were not just quotas. We were also like the TOP 09 against mandatory quotas, but there were a number of proposals that would help stabilise the situation and stabilise the situation. We are at the level of migration that was before the crisis, thanks precisely to the common actions of both the individual states and the common actions of the European Union. There is nothing but a common solution, a common approach, so that we continue to have a stable situation in the area of migration. Please don't tell yourself that individual states can handle this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u5	Thank you. Mr Veselý, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, are mostly speaking out when we disagree with the speaker, but I wanted to speak out now to support my colleague Ondráček. Indeed, those who claim that we should send an army to Greece may not even mean that. First of all, look really at the Constitution. We are debating - and it will be interesting to see if the same people who say "Send an army" are opposed to the debate about the amendment of the Constitution so that the Czech government can send an army in certain cases - the debate has been held here, and I think it's the same ones, the same ones who are calling today to send out, conflict at that moment. So it's an impossible ústava. [[Nesroz.]] And the other thing. Imagine, in Germany, they conclude that we cannot cope with the situation at our borders, for example, with Slovakia, and send us unilaterally Wehrmacht and the German police. Well, we'd have seen it! We'd have seen that. You can't be serious. Řecko must want that. And since he hasn't even asked us to do it yet, not even the police, let alone the army, we can't send any army or policemen there. So here I strongly support my colleague, Ondráček, and please stop throwing these words that are beautifully populist, but completely outside the foreign policy reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u7	Thank you. Real comment by Mr Radim Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u8	I, of course, take back the word army, I wanted to say armed forces, because I know that's not possible. But my contribution was going somewhere else. It pointed out that any agreement, any call on the European Union - and Mr Ondráček, through Mr President, confirmed that Frontex is some kind of information service that informs migrants to take the right direction to reach Germany. So it's just no use. It's no use. And we're proposing a definite thing. We propose that we support Greece in their efforts to stop migration, and we propose that, for example, our armed forces, if requested by Greece and if the agreement and the treaty are with them, so that the Czech Republic can help them. Because if the Czech Republic helps them, so will many other countries. But the European Union and Frontex are simply not the solution. And we know from the past, it's an empirical experience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u9	Thank you. Your performance brought about four more facts. First, Mrs Černochová, then Mr Benešík, then Minister Hamáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u10	I don't want to extend the debate between us and SPD colleagues. But I just want to maybe repeat what I've read here. I guess the chairman of the SPD didn't hear that. We have the police there. Perhaps I would ask Mr Vích to educate the president of his club, what is the difference between the security forces and the armed forces. It's a pretty big difference. So maybe then a colleague confuses his terminology and someone should explain it to him. Anyway, in our motion for a resolution, which was also agreed by the Chairman of the Security Committee from the same side, i.e. from the SPD, Mr Koten, he appeals to the Government of the Czech Republic to actively ensure the urgent needs of the countries affected by the migration crisis so that it can respond without delay and send members of the Police of the Czech Republic to a position to mitigate the impact and manage this emergency situation. I'm not gonna read you another seven points here. But this resolution is indeed the work of all colleagues. And I'm sorry, I don't know who else to discuss a resolution with but the chairman of the Security Committee for your party. So maybe I should have come to you, if you don't suggest a point that's stronger than we're suggesting. Anyway, everyone received the motion for a resolution by 20.00 yesterday, so it was 13 hours in time to add some of the things that some colleagues from the respective clubs might want.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u11	Thank you. Mr Benešík, factual point. Minister Hamáček will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u12	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would like to respond briefly. The fact that Frontex is to show the way to illegal migrants in Europe is not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u13	Thank you. Minister Hamáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u14	I'm gonna respond to the same thing. I understand that the debate can be a bit tacky, that we can use different arguments. But we shouldn't lie. And if someone comes out here and says that the European Union has set up an agency to show migrants the way to Europe, I'm warning you, and here I said it in the speech, we have 18 police officers in Frontex. Do you think that Czech police officers are directing migrants to Europe? It's nonsense! Read it and don't scare people! I'm prepared to answer the relevant arguments, but I can't respond to lies and half-truths. Frontex is a European Union agency that serves to protect borders, and our police officers are in it. And if anyone says they're gonna navigate migrants to Europe, they're lying!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u15	A point of fact, Mr Ondráček, then Vice-President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u16	Shortly to the President of the SPD. I didn't say that they were leading, because you mentioned that I was putting it there. No. This Frontex is working in some way there and giving information. But he gives information to the Greek party, the Greek police, or the Greek state, and he's already passing it on to the police, the army. And then they're doing the security measures. So I didn't say that Frontex was showing migrants the way to Europe. And let's try to keep this debate quiet so we don't fight completely. I think we all know what we want to support anyway. I respect the right of my colleague to some reservations. I, too, am not entirely satisfied with the foreign policy of the Czech Republic on some points. With the European Union - I could tell you that all day. But here we have come to some consensus, and let's say we're just politicians. We can simply issue resolutions, adopt resolutions, and declare some things. If I were a police officer, I would report to help my Greek colleagues, as some police officers address me and say: we are ready to leave if necessary to help Greek colleagues defend the European Union, the Czech Republic from this crisis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u17	Thank you. A real point, Vice-President Tomio Okamura. Mr. Foldyna will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak briefly to Mrs Černochová of the ODS through the President. Please stop lecturing us here. Stop telling SPD what we're doing here and what we're not. Your President, Fiala, is constantly saying here, and he said this week that the European Union is the only future for the Czech Republic. This migration policy is the work of the European Union; it is the work of politicians such as Merkelová, Macron and others. You support the European Union with these policies. And now that you're jerking off your shirt here in quotes, suddenly you're waking up, while we in the SPD have been drawing attention to the threat of migration and Islam for five or six years. They're your politicians, and google the ODS politicians who said Okamura is a populist, that it's haunted that there's no migration at all, that it's nonsense. And now you're on your own when it's too late. And now you're jerking off your shirt. So stop insulting the SPD. On the contrary, we were the only ones who drew attention to it. We were the only visionaries, and on the basis of the information, said that this is a threat - yes, Mrs Černochová is laughing now - while the ODS also says today that European Union policy is the only alternative for the Czech Republic. It's good to hear it again and good to hear. So stop insulting us here. I suggest we get back to a substantive debate here. The problem is that we as the SPD, as you know, were the first to call on the government to send help to Greece on Sunday night. I am glad that Minister Hamáček responded yesterday to the SPD's call and said that he was finally considering some help. So that's the fact. I would like to go back to the debate and we would like to adopt a substantive resolution. But stop saying that you're doing something here and that the SPD isn't doing it. You probably overslept for a really long time, and maybe you haven't been listening for five or six years, or you're hiding the fact that we were the only ones who brought this up. So, again, I'm on the verge of a matter of debate, so we can deal with the situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u19	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr. Foldyna. Mr. Bžoch will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, I am listening to the debate. I agree that we should do something declarably. Seriously. You know, if our ancestors had done this in 1683 at Vienna, we would have begun today's negotiations by prayer to Alláh. If they'd just made this declaration about what happened here 350, 380 years ago, we're not having this conversation. We're always talking about something here. Mrs. Johansson, when she was here, a Swedish teacher who was three times in the Swedish government. Sweden - this is the country where people are afraid to walk on the street, where migrants from the Czech Republic, who emigrated to Sweden in 1970 and fled from communists, are now fleeing back to the Czech Republic because they do not want to live there. The lady tells us that we must accept solidarity. I accept solidarity with everyone who goes to work in Düsseldorf, who goes to work in Sweden, with workers, employees. But I don't know what solidarity I'm supposed to talk about with people who don't come here because of war, but for economic reasons, which is a large percentage of those so-called refugees who are standing there today. There's four million of them, Mr. Erdogan says. And you don't think four million people are gonna let you in on our cops? What are those guys doing there? Stand there and wait for them to be trampled into the ground? Or do we send them a million euros in change to throw them at them? Or do you really think they need a million euros? Do you think Řecko needs an army? Greece has one of the largest armies in Europe. They need the decisive position of the Czech Republic that the borders, the borders of the country, are not discussed, they are being fired on. [[Time warning]] [[Attention on time.]] Do you know who said that? Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk. [[Attention on time.]] That's important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u21	Mr. Bžoch, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u22	Thank you for the floor. It's important that we have this discussion here. It's an important subject. Migration has been with us for years. It's good to talk about it. So it's a good thing we're here and we're talking about it. However, the innuendo that is here towards the government or the European Union. Our government has dealt with nothing but migration for years. I'm not saying it's just migration. The European Union is also dealing with this. And the subject isn't easy. And to you, Vice-President Okamura through the President, yes, you do a lot in the SPD. You do a lot. You scare a lot of people, and you make up a lot, and you spread a lot of false information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u23	We've dealt with factual points, I hope. And the next party to the debate is Mr. Jiří Kobza. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I would like to return from the previous heated discussion to the substance of why we are actually here and why we are discussing here. I think that, first of all, thanks should be given to Greece that, finally, after some four years under pressure from its own desperate citizens, the Greek government has decided to act. There is no dispute that universal effective assistance to Greece from the Czech Republic is not only a decency and duty, but above all, let us face it, it is our own national Czech interest. We can really say, as has already been said here, that at the Greek-Turkish border, at this point, the fight for Prague is now beginning. And sadly, it took the Czech government several days, unlike the decision of the Turkish President, who has a horizon of hours from decision to action, it took several days for her to be timidly and under pressure to do so. The Greek Government has been calling loudly for this assistance since last week, when it was requested by the European Union States, and within this structure it has requested the activation of the solidarity mechanism. Greece needs targeted and effective assistance. Especially the kind the Řek ask for. It is about involving ourselves in some way and contributing to the resolution of a crisis that fatally threatens Europe and us. So it is not only material and personnel support, but above all political support. There must be a clear message that the Czech Republic supports The Greeks in their efforts to stop the uncontrolled migration invasion, which is now under the baton of President Erdogan. We must help not only Greece, however it is in the front line of this battle, but we must also think of other countries threatened by the migration invasion of so-called. The Balkan route - North Macedonia, Bulgaria, Montenegro, Serbia, and, above all, Hungary, which faces immense pressure and protects Europe's security while hitting anyone who disguises themselves as a multiculturalist and refugee friend to collect millions of euros from EU funds and share them with the smuggling mobs. Turkey is conducting a brutal and illegal invasion of Syria. He needs money for this war. We have warned several times that the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, the cowardly agreement on the payment of a blackmailer, will apply for as long as Turkey needs more money. And then the Turkish Government, the Turkish Caliph will have no choice but to send a few tens of thousands of migrants across the Greek-Turkish border to remind the European Union that it is he who holds the key to the door of migration, and so let the European Union pay. We warned about it, and now it's happened. It wasn't the spread of alarms, it wasn't the haunting. This was a warning based on the factual knowledge of the issue and the situation there. We believe that this ransom of the European Union should definitely end not in Turkey, but rather in support of the protection and defence of the Schengen border in Greece. And not only in Greece, but also in Bulgaria, because that money will be well invested there. We must also count on the possibility of breaking the Greek-Turkish border, because before Europe moves to any effective aid, the question is whether the Řek themselves can stop this invasion. We have to think about the question of second-secue boundaries. And that will be the border just on the Balkan road. Border Croatia, Macedonia, Serbian-Hungarian. We need to be prepared for the need to help there too, because if this other border falls, then there is nothing that will stop them before they come to Bohemia. So I would take the liberty of asking the government to consider, when discussing the solution to effective aid to Greece, a solution to the need to defend the borders of the second sequence. I would like to remind you that it was the SPD that pushed through the resolution to cooperate and to provide development assistance, in particular, to countries that work together to repatriate illegal migrants. You know that the repatriation mechanisms under the Dublin agreements work very, very badly. It can be said that so far dozens of migrants have managed to repatriate, because this comes across a very sophisticated system, which migrants are being brought to Europe so that it is not clear from which country they crossed the border. And, of course, this also comes with opposition from some of their source countries, because the money that these migrants send home is a relatively significant foreign exchange income for their national budgets. I think that we should return to this resolution and start to really consider carefully the countries to which this development aid will be provided. What has not yet been said here is the root cause of migration. Or maybe a colleague Ondráček took part in it. Because if we want to stop migration, reduce pressure on the Greek border, we must first stop financing migration. We need to stop funding for migration agencies, non-profit organisations, various other units, whether within the European Union, within national states or private entities, semi-private entities, because as long as there are social benefits in Germany at the end of the migrant journey, which are far beyond their income options at home, we have no chance of stopping this migration. And it will end with bloodshed, because Europe is unable to feed the whole of Africa and all of Asia. As long as this is a business for the Mafia and nonprofits and other activists, including, of course, Turkey, it will take migration. Stop the money - stop the migration! Once again, I would like to mention the ransom to Turkey. Given the behaviour of the Turkish President and the Turkish Government, I certainly think it is wrong to continue or offer them additional billions of euros, but, on the contrary, to actually use this money to finance aid to Greece. Whatever material, personnel, whatever it is. [[10.10 hours]] With regard to the financing of aid to the Czech Republic to Greece, I think that at various events, 300 million for Morocco, 70 million for transformation cooperation, there is enough money that is spent with a very debatable purpose, and we can redirect it to these acute issues that need to be addressed. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u25	Thank you. I have two factual points here. First, Mr Okamura, Mrs Langšádlová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u26	After all, I, ladies and gentlemen, would have responded to Mr Bžoch of the ANO movement. Mr. Bžoch said the SPD movement is haunted by migration. I would remind you, and Mr Bžoch may not have been here in the last parliamentary term, because, like this parliamentary term, I did not notice his presence in the Chamber of Deputies, so I just want to remind you that it was the ANO movement that proposed visa-free relations with Turkey during the last parliamentary term. It was the government of the YES, ČSSD and KDU-ČSL movement that came up with this and proposed visa-free relations with Turkey. So this is what the ANO MP is defending. And it was the SPD, which in the last parliamentary term, and those who were here, remember this very well, that we initiated the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which we prevented the government from promoting and promoting visa-free relations with Turkey, and this resolution was adopted by the Chamber of Deputies. And on the basis of this resolution by the Chamber of Deputies, it is a written resolution voted out by the House, the Government of the ANO, the CSSD and the KDU-ČSL have ended the debate on visa-free relations with Turkey. So Mr. Bžoch says that the SPD is haunted while promoting visa-free relations with Turkey. And so did we: don't pay for the firepower to Turkey. Last year, the government agreed to 60 million. Last year, the government agreed to send Turkey 60 million crowns. It's supposed to be CZK 85 million this year. We said, "Don't pay it, Turkey's gonna cash in, and it's gonna send migrants in." Again. And Mr. Bžoch says we've been haunted. So with your pro-migration policy, you're promoting visa relations with Turkey, the YES movement, so of course we're saying no, that's not right, and we're going to keep saying that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u27	Completely accurate two-minute follow-up. Thank you. Mrs Langšádlová, Mr Kobza will prepare all the factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u28	Thank you for the floor. Yes, we must control the border, we must control migration, we must obey the laws, we must respect it within the European Union and within the Czech Republic. But I'm missing another dimension in this debate, and that's humanitarian. And it was said here that those horrible nonprofits - and I would like to express my appreciation for many of those nonprofits that care about people in those camps. Because what situation are we in? In the area of Syria, in the area of Idlíb there are 800,000 people who suffer there in camps, among them are really tens of thousands of children who are there in tents, and in similar really desperate situations people found themselves on the islands. Yes, I am in favour of return policy, for security, all of that, but our approach must have a normal human dimension. We simply cannot and should not care that there are hundreds of thousands of people who are truly suffering desperately. I'm sure you have your children, you have your grandchildren, and we can't care that there are hundreds of thousands of children here who live in completely unacceptable, inhuman conditions. So please, let us also give this human dimension to the discussion, because otherwise, please, we have no right to invoke any Christian values and our Christian roots.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u29	Thank you. Mr Kobza, Mr Bžoch will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I won't hold up. I just got an e-mail from the Greek embassy about the situation at the Turkish-Greece border, so I thought I'd read some of it here. Greece needs technical support on the ground, and it also needs political support to be able to cope with this crisis, which is clearly Turkey's manipulation. Turkey has invented this crisis and is using migrants to blackmail Greece and the European Union. It will be discussed today at the meeting of the Interior Ministers and on Thursdays and Fridays on foreign affairs. Greece has activated Article 78 (3) of the European Treaty on a dangerous situation and we will see today how ministers decide to fulfil this commitment. It is clear to us that this is not only a migration crisis, but it is a matter of national security, and it is therefore important that Czech politicians show their political solidarity by condemning Turkey's aggressive action and calling on the European Union to use all the tools to force Turkey to comply with its obligations under the Treaty of 2016. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u31	Thank you. I'll read two apologies briefly. The Minister of Justice Marie Benešová apologizes until 14.30 hours for reasons of work, and Mr František Navrkal apologized again between 9.00 and 9.15 on account of the meeting of the Foreign Committee. Now a point of fact, Mr Bžoch, then Mrs Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u32	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President through the President, I would not like to go back to whether or not I was here because you did not respond directly to me. I sat here, you didn't say anything, so I left. Now you've responded to me since I was gone, but I've listened to you very carefully. That's the demonstration, what I said earlier, that you were making it up. Firstly, the YES movement has no pro-migration policy, nor can I imagine what that policy should look like, and visas, if it was supported by our four Members, that there would be no visas, so that is very little. Plus, I can't imagine the migrants you're constantly talking about, having Turkish passports, and that it would have touched them somehow, because I don't think we have any big Turek migration from Turkey. So that visa or visa-free contact isn't connected at all, but it has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u33	Thank you. Mrs Válková, factual point, then Mr Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know if I can do this in two minutes. I'll try. As Chair of the Committee on Petitions, as well as the Human Rights Commissioner, I visited - and informed about the outcome of my visit to both the Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs - in autumn 2019 Greece at a time when - it is now called the Kurdish crisis. In essence, Greece was also faced by migrants from the Kurdish population. We visited the detention centres or the asylum centre, we talked to the Greek authorities. And they turned to us at the time, and in this sense, I follow up on Mrs Langšádlová's contribution through you, Mr President, to draw attention mainly to the humanitarian reasons. And I think we really shouldn't forget them. Now, six months later, we were in Croatia, we returned a week ago, and there we also visited the center, where we have now met those refugees from Syria who are coming. And the situation really is that the Chorvat are handling it by not facing such a huge strain, not comparing it to better quality and more technically than the Řek, and after the conversations we had there, the conclusion is clear. They say that the Czech Republic should be more intensively involved in all three dimensions. That actually means helping technical, military, security, but also humanitarian. So that's what I wanted to say. This is the result of the visit both in Greece and now, last week, in Croatia. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u35	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Okamura, then Mr Schwarzenberg, and Minister Hamáček made a factual statement, but he withdrew the application. So only two facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I would respond to Mr Jaroslav Bžoch of the ANO movement. Mr Jaroslav Bžoch said that the fact that the YES movement promoted visa-free relations with Turkey had nothing to do with migration, and he asked me what this had to do with migration. Mr Bžoch, through Mr President, no longer show your ignorance. So Germany has 82 million inhabitants. According to current official statistics, there are 11 million foreigners, and most of them are Turek - 1,880 000. Please don't say that the introduction of visa-free travel with Turkey has nothing to do with migration when the most migrants in Germany are from Turkey. So, please, that's the highlight of your amateur arguments! You're not ready, you just don't know what you're talking about. You say the SPD is haunted when we say when we criticize you for promoting visa-free relations with Turkey. Here you can see that, on the contrary, the most migrants in Germany are from Turkey, and it is a long-term number, so, Congressman, I don't think we need to talk about this anymore. If you want, we'll continue. I have the numbers ready, I have them in my head, I am immediately able to respond. But, you know, while I'm at the mic, I'd like to ask you a question if you like to go on the mic so much and you want to talk to me. I would therefore ask you to answer why the YES movement proposed and promoted visa-free relations with Turkey during the previous parliamentary term. I beg your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u37	Thank you. A point of fact - Mr Schwarzenberg, then Minister Hamáček, then Mr Bžoch, came forward. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u38	Mr President, Dear Government, I am also in good health for the few Members present. I'm warning our government that we're really asking for the biggest embarrassment of that time. I would strongly recommend that at least one minister of our government goes to the Greek islands - Leros, Lesbos, wherever he looks at the circumstances in which refugees live there, also refugees on the border of Turkey to Greece. The misery, if you could see the circumstances of children, women, old men living there, and we're saying yeah, yeah, we're going to send some sums where, of course, the money in the crown sounds nice, but in fact, it's just a drop that we're sending there. Of course, we do not send money in those amounts that Greece would need. We're sending as if there's a fire somewhere, that kind of amount. We don't provide real help there. But we're resisting anyone getting to us, let them be children, let them be women. We're pretending to be in danger. Bullshit! Also, nothing happened to all the other countries that had accepted refugees. Crime isn't higher than our own people. I really must be ashamed of our government today and of its actions towards refugees in the Greek islands. I'd rather even use the Slovak word that I'm ashamed. Shame on you, it's a shame how we behave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u39	Your time. Thank you. Minister Hamáček, then Mr Bžoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u40	I volunteered, and I didn't know that Mr. Bžoch was going to report, so my goal is not to defend or defend him here, but I just want to pause over Mr. Okamura's argument that visa-free relations with Turkey have something to do with the number of Turek in Germany. If I'm not mistaken, the reason for the Turkish minority's arrival in Germany was because they were involved in the postwar reconstruction of the destroyed Germany. Since they had no workforce in Germany, the German governments in the 1950s, 1960s simply decided to bring the workforce from abroad, and this really has nothing to do with the introduction of visa-free travel in 2016 or 2017. So I'd like those arguments to give some logic, some sense. Just pointing out that visa-free travel is within 90 days of tourist stays, and if visas are introduced over 90 days or long-stay visas and someone breaks visa-free travel and stays in that place, respectively. He's gonna drag that time into visa-free travel, so he's classically classified as illegal and deported. So, please, let's not install these two things, and I certainly wouldn't say that in Germany, the Turkish minority originated on the basis of the visa-free movement of 2016.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u41	Thank you. Mr Bžoch, then Mr Kopřiva.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u42	Thank you for the floor. I promise I'll be here for the last time. The Minister has made this very easy for me by what he said about Turkey, and I will mention one more thing. When Vice-President Okamura said that we are the pro-migration party, he probably forgets that Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, the one who runs this government, said clearly, several times he said that we would not accept an illegal immigrant. So I don't know what they think of it as that legal migration or that we want me to have a pro-migration policy. As far as Turkey is concerned, how the YES movement promoted. From the YES movement, four Members voted in favour. Four! So the ANO movement certainly didn't enforce it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u43	Thank you. A factual point - Mr Kopřiva, then Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to join you in defending the Minister of the Interior and Mr Bžoch that the visa really does not have anything to do with the current situation at the Greek-Turkish border. I would just like to add, or I would like to confirm that it is true that Vice-President Okamura has been dealing with this issue of foreigners and migrants for a long time, because we can trace in public records that in 2011, for example, the Miss Expat project, which is intended to bring foreign cultures closer to the Czech Republic, or, for example, in its store where it sells certified halal food. So I'm sure he's the most invited expert. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u45	Thank you. Mrs Černochová - a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u46	Thank you. Now that Vice-President of the House is training us not to perform when we want to repair it, I'm applying to perform here to correct some of his remarks and nonsense that he's saying. Mr Okamura may not have realized this, but in 2016, i.e. in the year she approved, virtually. did not approve of the ODS votes, the European agreement with Turkey on the abolition of visas, so was Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. Not that I would like to call on the spirit of Mr Sobotka here, but certainly with the proposal, President Okamura, through the Vice-President, the YES did not come from the logic of the matter. So please, really, when you're performing like this, get the information, or else you're embarrassing yourself!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u47	Thank you, and at the moment all factual remarks are exhausted and with priority rights the Minister of Culture Zaorálek is signed up for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u48	Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. So I couldn't resist commenting on the debate that's going on here. I would like to say some things quite clearly. I do not know of any political party demanding visa-free relations with Turkey. And I think I was there when the meeting took place. It was about Turkey wanting money. I know that it wanted Turkey to be part of the Schengen visa package, that is a three-month tourist visa, to join Ukraine and Georgia as well, but no one wanted it. As far as the Czech Republic is concerned, perhaps I can reveal that the reasons for our unwillingness were given by assessing that Turkey was not able to secure those safety standards, that these demands to cope with the whole visa waiver procedure were simply assumed that Turkey was not able to handle it. Perhaps I can make the argument today. [[10.30 hours]] So I don't remember there being a single political party saying anything else. And again, I'm talking about the Turek having a three-month tourist visa, Schengen. Just about that. But not only the Czech Republic, but as far as I know, I don't remember anyone promoting this. So I think we can end this debate because there's no one here. And another thing. I wanted to comment on the fact that we're talking about the situation at the Greek-Turkish border, but I feel like I'm still missing what's causing what's going on at the Greek-Turkish border, and at least look at the causes of what's going on and what's actually the cause of why Erdogan's acting the way he's acting. And let me just say some facts. Turkey is a state that has troops in Syria at this time, it has troops there. I would like to say very simply why he has them there. Turkey has them there because it has interests there. This interest is to prevent the creation of some autonomy of Kurdish. That's one thing he'd be very upset about if it were made, which is why he's got soldiers there. And the second reason Turkey has soldiers in Syria today is because they want to prevent another wave of refugees from Syria from spilling into Turkey. And I'd like to remind you what happened recently. Asadův's army supported by Russia, the Russian air force, launched an operation against Idlíb, in the last enclave in which the rebels, the moderators, but the jihadists, hid, and in order to say, occupy the last place in a country that he doesn't yet control. This operation has led to the emergence of the largest refugee wave in Syria, the largest since 2011 - 948 thousand refugees, so let's say, for the sake of simplification, about a million refugees who have moved and who have, of course, moved more or less towards the Turkish border. But Turkey does not allow these refugees. Basically, the line is sealed. But, of course, Erdogan perceives that the Asadův force attack has caused the movement of millions of refugees, which is a huge mass, and you can read all over the country about what it looks like. And now what happened next. At that he protested, Erdogan protested in Moscow, protested that the Sochi agreements of 2018 had been broken, where the borders were set, where the border was bordered by Idlíb and where Assad should not proceed. So he protested against it and wanted Asadův's troops to withdraw from the territory she conquered and return to the border set out in the Soviet agreements of 2018. That's what the Rus said they wouldn't do, and that they wouldn't do it simply because the area of Idlíb, for which Turkey takes over the guarantee, is actually dominated by jihadists and Islamists. The Rus aren't exactly lying about it, because it's true that over time, more or less, the Islamist groups have pushed through so much that they control the space quite to a large extent. So the Rus argument isn't entirely odd. To be completely fair, I actually repeat, it's quite true. But it's probably not easy either, is it, in that space, I don't know, three or four million people somehow control order when there's a limited contingent of soldiers. So the Turek got a proposal from the Rus. The proposal was so that 60 percent of Idlíb's territory would be controlled by Asad, that the rest could be kept under control by the Turek. That's what the Turek said they weren't totally accepting. Just because they said it would mean that the three million inhabitants of Idlíb would be more or less under the control of Asad, which they say is unacceptable. Let me remind you that in the skirmishes, in the clashes between Asad and Turkey of course, dozens of Turkish soldiers were killed, which is quite an important fact, a political fact for Turkey and Erdogan himself. And a thing that I'm sure must make him very unsure of the situation and make him very restless. This situation was attempted by the United States of America, because it was actually a collision between Russia and Turkey, and that is why they tried to deal with the Turek and to take advantage of the situation - we have to keep in mind that Turkey is our partner in the Alliance, a partner that is unpredictable for the reasons in question, and Američan have seen a chance to get back together with the Turek to some extent on this subject. However, I think it was recently in Azerbaijan where Erdogan let himself be heard that all those American promises to help them have been non-materialized into anything concrete, and that's why nobody's gonna help them in this mess. And on that basis, the Turek began to act again. And of course you're right about the Turek blackmailing us. They say all the time - according to United Nations, they have 3.6 million refugees on the territory, they have a million others outside the border, and they say, "Who's gonna help us out here?" We often tell them what Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung has just written, who wrote that we will not drag chestnuts behind the Turek from the porridge they baked there in Syria. However, the truth is, at this point, it's the only army of the Alliance that has its soldiers in this space, while we, as you know, have no one there. And the Američan pretend they don't want to be involved anymore. So it's the only alliance army that's somehow in this space, where Russia, Syria, and today Turkey are dividing their influence. We're basically not there. The reason we're pulling a smaller end in this whole thing is because we're not there. So you understand, we may be in Afghanistan, but we're just not here. It's a space that's crucial to us because it's runaways, just like Libya. But we're not even more or less military there. A defense minister in Italy once thought that we could put soldiers in Libya if we wanted something to do, that he needed at least 50 grand. On the next day, the Senate MPs washed his head for even taking the liberty of saying so. So we just don't want to send soldiers. Not Libya, not Syria. Turkey has soldiers there. It's the only one. Of course, he has interests there, and he's acting like someone who's trying to become a regional hegemon today, that's all true. His interests are not exactly the same as ours. However, it is the only country of the Alliance that, at this moment, is engaged in this space, which is essential to us, as you can see, because there is a lot going on there and because there is cutting influence at this moment. But it's without us. And the Turek are furious. Erdogan is angry that we are unable and willing to help him. That sometimes someone promises him something, but otherwise they're on their own. What's the problem with Erdoganův's position? I'll tell you very quickly and briefly, too. Erdoganův's opposition is asking for conflicting things. On the one hand, his coalition partner wants him to be tougher on Moscow and Damascus. That means he's supposed to be a major part of it. On the other hand, the public does not want more dead Turkish soldiers. So he's actually more or less a victim of completely contradictory demands. On the one hand, do not give in to Asad and on the other hand, do not lose soldiers. Just so you can imagine. Maybe it's a luxury here to imagine it. But I understand that Erdogan is in a pretty difficult situation, how he's going to defend himself at home, this engagement in Syria, which is hard for everyone. It is also difficult for Russia, by the way, because Putin also wants the Rus to vote and needs a result. Putin also needs to make it to the end. And even for Putin now, it's not easy to make it to the end. So, you know, everybody's pushing to have a result. Erdogan needs to banish him in front of his audience at home and is in the pliers of totally conflicting demands of the public, opposition, and even his own coalition partner. And Putin doesn't have a simple situation either. And what is the danger of this situation, and why am I saying this here? Because that's really interesting, and maybe it should be important to us that there's something here that's scary, folks. The fear is that Turkey can drag us into conflict with Russia in this way. Guess you'd think that's what's hanging in the air. That's what they say sometimes. This also means, since I quoted the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, he recently wrote: Let us not get involved in the conflict with Russia. Let's not get dragged into another war. Even wars the end of which we are unable to see. I don't want to overdo it, I'm just telling you, it's a matter that's also being discussed and it's damn serious. [[10.40 hours]] On the other hand, I don't want to be haunted here today because you all probably know, or who you're dealing with, that relations between Russia and Turkey are so special that they alternate between periods of conflict, tension, collision, and then they sit down and look for a deal. So even here, most experts think that even in this mess in which the situation is escalating, there can be a diplomatic agreement and that the Rus will agree with Turkey somehow. I am sorry that they are only Rus with Turkey, that we are not involved in this. I'd like that, but we're just not. And then there's one thing that's dangerous, and it's also written about, folks, and that's that Erdogan might calculate that he can't afford to back down now and that he's really escalating the situation. This is also an option that is on the table. At least that's what we should say to each other. And that's a dangerous thing. If that were to happen, Turkey, a member of the Alliance, would even go into conflict with Russia. It's not something that's out of the picture. We should be aware of that. It's a serious and quite frightening possibility with consequences that are hard to see. And maybe we should realize one more thing I've said here before, but I'm gonna repeat it again today. Turkey is a member of the Alliance, our Alliance, which is a member of us. He may be a member of the erratic, such, I would say, which annoys us, to put it gently, sometimes a lot, but he is a member of the Alliance. And if there's an experienced general standing here, one who knows his way around, he's gonna tell you that having Turkey on his side or having it against each other is a very important thing for Europe. It is a very fundamental thing strategically, it is a fundamental thing for anyone who thinks of Europe as a whole. Do you understand? We're talking today about how Turkey is pissing us off, blackmailing us. Yes, he's literally blackmailing us. Completely consciously. It's all true. And yet let me say that, strategically, geopolitically, having Turkey on your side or against each other - everyone will tell you, that is a crucial thing for Europe. So if we are members of the Alliance, we take it seriously with all the negatives, pluses, the problems that it brings to us, but then, of course, with the crucial fact that it creates the architecture of security for the Czech Republic, so let us remember that Turkey, which is so annoying to us, is an important member whose behaviour and whose future affects the security of Europe. That's just the way it is. We're pulling the shorter end of the rope because we're not engaged militaryly in Libya like Europe or in Syria, and we're paying for how it's sometimes pathetic to say that we don't want to put our soldiers on the line like that, and we don't publicly defend it. That's just how I see it. And it's not an easy way out. But otherwise, I support what we are debating here today, and the resolution that has been proposed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u49	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. That was a performance with the priority right of the Minister of Culture. We will continue with Jiří Kobza's performance, which is - well, so my colleague Benešík is now duly logged in and Mr Kopřiva will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u50	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it would be good to return the debate to where we would like it and where it should be. I would like to commend the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister for the lightning response and for continuing in good practice to help where necessary on a bilateral basis. I think we have appreciated many of us here that our government has been able to respond in the past in North Macedonia, and I am glad that in a similar way it continues to work together to resolve the beginning of the crisis in Greece on the Greek-Turkish border. However, I am one of those who have already been sitting here in the last parliamentary term, when the major migration problems at the borders of the European Union began, and at that time I had the honour of chairing the European Committee as well as during this parliamentary term, where we have operationally set up a subcommittee on migration and asylum policy that did not exist before. This was triggered by an urgent situation in the migration crisis at the time. And unfortunately, the committee continues to this day. We all felt that in one parliamentary term the problem would be resolved, or at least stabilized enough to allow the Committee on European Affairs to deal with other pressing matters in its specialised subcommittee, but the situation is that we must continue to do this work. And just because I'm already a kind of memorial, and because I have some experience, and maybe I'll tell you a little pompous about how we've dealt with these things in the past, where we've made a mistake and where we've done the right thing, I'd like to tell you a few of these things, and maybe we'll all learn from them together. I would like to start by saying that my KDU-ČSL party has been dealing with the migration crisis from the very beginning. I do not want to criticize anyone, but it was certainly at a time when a number of political parties did not perceive this problem or considered it marginal. I would like to read a few postulates from our strategy for addressing the migration crisis of 2014 and 2015. Again, the sentences I'm about to say are five six years old. I'll try to be brief, I won't read the whole thing. KDU-ČSL thinks of the security of citizens. We reject mandatory quotas and promote migration solutions, as far as possible, outside the EU's borders. KDU-ČSL repeatedly calls for an increase in our aid for refugee camps in fighting regions to ensure decent conditions for people, which is the most effective way to prevent them from marching to Europe. KDU-ČSL consistently differentiates between economic migrants and war refugees. We've got to get those first ones back quick. We are obliged to help the others if they stand for our help, which the vast majority of them do not want so far. KDU-ČSL realizes that migration cannot be resolved by the Czech Republic itself. We place emphasis on the European Union's better defence of its external borders, to speed up the process of returning economic migrants, to fight people's smugglers and, in particular, to contribute to stabilisation and assistance in the regions where refugees come from. At the same time, we insist that each EU country be free to choose its own migration policy. KDU-ČSL rejects proposals for immigration to become a universal response to a low birth rate. In the long term, we draw attention to the problem of demographic deficit and the need to support working parents and children's education. The last point responded to the debate, which was also in the Czech Republic, about our unhappy demographic situation. What I read is really 2014 and 2015. Our ministers, when we were in government, followed this consistently. Our Members and Senators have observed and observed this, and our MEPs have observed and observed this, even though they have been falsely accused that this is not true. I would just like to emphasise the idea that it is important to address migration and migration crises and flows throughout the European Union. The Czech Republic as a Schengen country, which is in the middle of Europe, simply does not have a chance to deal with this alone, but has a huge interest in coping with this problem and in protecting the external borders of the European Union, which sometimes seems very far from ours, but in its own way is also ours. That is why we have welcomed and supported the actions of the previous European Commission, which has proposed concrete measures to make this common practice more effective. One of them was the setting up of a border guard and a coast guard. Of course, we have had long discussions about what powers these borderers should have. We are here calling for the lack of authority, that they should have better, that a universal European Union should respond, that it cannot deal with it. But let us ask ourselves: do the institutions of the European Union have legislative instruments and powers conferred on the Member States to be able to resolve this? In the vast majority, they don't. In the vast majority of security policy, we need the consent of all Member States. So the agreement with the majority must be sought by individual ministers of the Member States, of course also at the level of the European Council, i.e. prime ministers. [[10.50 hours]] As regards the so-called Frontex, I've already made a brief statement here. He has certain limited powers, he has to complement the activities of the components of those states that do not manage migratory flows, and he has to help them. But the superior component is always that of the state - Greece, Italy, Malta and so on. It is simply a kind of rapid company, which if one of the states is exposed to an excessive migration flow that is unable to cope, it will be sent there to help. Of course, what powers it will have depends on how each Member State agrees and how it approves these powers. At present, Frontex is simply helping and helping. However, it turns out that the number of women and men serving in Frontex, for example, is. insufficient at present. Perhaps even his powers would like to move a little further, after all, even the Prime Minister of his own time talked about how he could imagine Frontex serving outside the European Union in certain cases, of course at the invitation of the respective states, e.g. Libya. But that's a question for discussion. Anyway, we are now facing a problem of how to secure the European border, and this is very closely linked to finances. The new European Commission has proposed a rather rapid increase in the means of security, and, in this context, of course, a rapid increase in the means of protecting the external borders of the European Union. Of course, this has to do with the fact that it requires an increase, a staff increase in this Border Protection Agency, but also with other issues that may not be so visible. We, on the European Committee, have discussed the draft budget, rather the multiannual financial framework, that is, the framework for further budgets for the seven years, and we have largely decided that the security of our citizens is the greatest priority and this priority must also be reflected in the funds devoted to it from the common budget. And I will say this openly - policies such as cohesion or agricultural policy must not be at the expense of our security. Let us just remember - and I hope that we are all aware of this now - that security is the highest priority, and that if we want to have prosperity in Europe and we want to live here peacefully, then, above all, we must preserve Europe safe. I remember, and I am going back to being here for the second term, and I am the second term chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, as we discussed with the then European Commissioner, when we completed our own arrangements for the distribution of European subsidies within the Czech Republic, within the framework of individual operational programmes. Sobotkův's government had already arrived at the end of the process and could not change those quite basic parameters, of course, but at that time the budget Commissioner, who worked in the previous Commission as Commissioner for Humanitarian Aid, said that in 2010, 2011, 2012 warned us that the leaders of the Member States' governments at that time were starting to burn at the borders of the European Union and in our immediate neighbourhood, that we would have a problem, that we had to secure borders, that there would be camps where people would live in undignified conditions, and that we would be very motivated not to take this lightly, and that we should strengthen the relevant chapters of the European budget. And she said, "Nobody listened to me at the time, everyone was playing their national interests." Every prime minister just wanted to come home with a piece of meat - I got you a grant. And they secured the subsidies, we had enough here, the Czech Republic every year plus minus 60, 70 billion net after deduction of our contribution. But it's partly at the expense of protecting our borders. And please, I have the impression that I am experiencing déjà vu, that even 14 days ago, when the problem was not so delicate when we thought it was marginal again, the Prime Minister simply said that he would again demand a reduction in the security budget precisely to strengthen cohesion. I think this is short-sighted. That is why I have proposed a resolution on the European Committee which has been adopted and which has been heard by the Prime Minister. I would like to quote: "In times of enhanced migration flows in Europe and the recent migration crisis, it considers security to be one of the European Union's most important priorities. It therefore welcomes the proposal to increase funds to protect the external border of the EU and calls on the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic to support this proposal in negotiations on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2021 to 2027.' I believe that, in light of these recent events, after these developments over the last 14 days, we will see reason and that we will not underestimate this situation again, as we did six, seven, eight years ago, our predecessors in office. That if we want to ensure security, we will also be aware that we also have to spend adequate funding on security, and we will support measures and a budget that will ensure this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u51	Thank you, colleague Ondřej Benešík. Now, Mr Kopřiva, Radovan Vích will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning again, dear colleagues. I would like to begin by thanking my colleague Černochová and others in the working group who proposed the resolution, which seems perfectly fine to me and is in line with those resolutions that we have actually adopted before as a copyist. I should just add a point to the proposal that would sound like calling on the government to work together to ensure decent conditions and the basic needs of asylum seekers. I kind of miss the fact that now that the person is needed in a refugee camp and waiting for the official trial, he might have a blanket under which he sleeps, etc. So I like the motion for a resolution, but one thing is that we are here on a regular basis, and the second thing is what the government is doing, where I would follow up on my previous speaker, the President of the European Committee, that when we discussed the multiannual financial framework of the European Union, the Prime Minister has been criticizing for a long time that the funds for cohesion funds are actually being reduced there, and, on the contrary, they are to increase funds to central programmes. Well, those central programmes are about to pay to improve the external Schengen border. So it seems to me that the negotiations at the European Council summit, where the Prime Minister represented the Czech Republic, are not entirely governed by the positions of the Chamber of Deputies. Like many of my previous speakers, I am convinced that the situation at the Greek-Turkish border and other places that are problematic will not be resolved by us alone or by the other Member States, but that the European Union simply has to work together as a whole, it is our common border. Therefore, it makes sense to me that both protection and, for example, protection should be strengthened from the means common to the Union. the European Asylum Agency and other components involved in protecting the external border. So, once again, I would like to call on the Prime Minister to present to us his specific proposals for the next extraordinary European Council summit. I have nothing against the cohesion funds, but at the same time I appeal to negotiate higher EU funds to protect the common border and ensure decent conditions for asylum seekers. I would also like to remind you that already in February, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees called for the evacuation of the Moria camp on the island of Lesbos. The situation is really bad, undignified for more than five years, and I'm a little afraid that sending other members of the Police of the Czech Republic will not quite ensure the basic needs of those people. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior what is the ratio of the funds we are sending to Greece in terms of how much we are sending in the sense of policemen and, say, the means that can be prevented from physically moving people, and how many real humanitarian needs are essential for survival there. That's what I'd like to know, and I'm sure the public would be interested, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u53	I thank Mr Kopřiv. Before I give the floor to my colleague Vích, I state Mr Mihola's apology from 9.00 to 10.15, and from 10.30 to 12.15 Mr Marek Výborný. He also apologizes between 11.00 and 11.30 Lukáš Kolářík. Now a colleague of Vích. A colleague Koten will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u54	Good morning, Mr President, fellow Members of the Government. I thought I was gonna get off sometime around 9:30 in the morning, so I had it ready for longer, so I'm gonna try to be brief. I am pleased that this point, called Information on the Government's position on the situation at the Greek-Turkish border, has reached the negotiating point. We have suggested a similar point, but we are glad that this point has finally passed, by acting over it here. I think that we are all very clear that help from Greece is necessary, and I think that aid should be technical and political in the first place. And I am not quite sure whether, as is the case with the motion for a resolution, if it is a strong enough position to essentially give a mandate to the government or the Home Secretary to negotiate. I'd like to say that as far as the police help is concerned, of course, the help is symbolic, because let's face it, 20 cops who will be there in shifts, one of them will be resting, one of them will be sick, so it's basically five cops per shift, so it's really a minimum number that we're even able to separate. Adding to that the number of police officers is not added to us, and of course it took 4,500 tables to cancel those regiments that were to protect our border after our entry into Schengen in 2004. As far as the army is concerned, of course Greece has one of the largest armies in Europe at all. So that, I think, wouldn't make it nonsense. And it really doesn't work in any way, but I can get to that, there would be some exceptions. But I would like to mention here that we will soon be here at the Chamber of Deputies meeting discussing a proposal on the operation of the forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations for 2021 and 2022. And this should be an indication for the government to, for example, open negotiations with North Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia, Hungary, and find out, for example, their current needs to protect their countries at national borders or on their territory, such as on the Balkan route. I'm putting it as a cover story. Of course, as far as the army is concerned, I would like to see the position of the Government of the Czech Republic if Greece had requested, in accordance with Article 4 of the Washington Treaty, how would the Czech Republic and our government have stood up to this, because I do not know which NATO allies we are then to help, whether Greece or Turkey. So that's what I'd like to mention here, too. As far as financial assistance is concerned, I am convinced that the financial assistance proposed by the Minister of the Interior in the amount of EUR 1 million, about CZK 25 million, compared to the fact that CZK 300 million is to go to Morocco this year to combat migration, that the amount is low. I would just like to say that, as far as diplomacy is concerned, the word of government could be stronger. This means that perhaps you could have the Minister, or the Foreign Minister should have called the Turkish Ambassador to explain the purpose of the Turkish actions in Syria. We might also consider calling off our ambassador from Turkey, but that is just a subject that we will see how the motion for a resolution will be loaded. We may still have some comments about him, and we will want to modify it. So I would just like to say that it is crucial for us, for the SPD, to ensure the defence and protection of the Schengen area, and I think that this assistance to Greece is essential as far as technical and political matters are concerned, and that is why we are in favour of adapting this motion for a resolution, so we are ready to support this resolution for the SPD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u55	Thank you, colleague Vích. He made factual remarks, first from the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček, then from the Minister of Foreign Affairs Petříček. Now, then, the Minister of the Interior, there is a factual remark from my colleague Václav Klaus. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u56	Thank you. I'll answer or respond to two shows. Mr Kopřiva asked how it is in terms of aid. I'm the one who said those numbers in relation to the police, which means we have 18 in Frontex. If we increase the force of the rapid reaction, it's another 20. In terms of money - a million euros, and in terms of humanitarian aid, it is worth CZK 2.5 million, and it is stuff like blankets, sleeping bags and other equipment of humanitarian nature always in thousands of pieces. If you want a complete list, I'll be able to send it to you. This is how Greece agreed and chose in our warehouses. And to Mr Vích. Article 4 The North Atlantic Treaty assumes consultation, that is, the answer is, if they ask us under Article 4, we will consult. Article 5, but he's talking about an armed attack, which would mean that somebody else would have to make an armed attack on one of our allies, which is not happening in the greatest fantasy on the Greek-Turkish border.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u57	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for keeping time on a point of fact. Now Minister of Foreign Affairs Petříček. Minister, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I would have responded briefly to Mr Vích. As far as aid is concerned, the Czech Republic will provide CZK 300 million to Morocco repeatedly. Let me just fix it. This is a three-year programme to combat migration and to stabilise the area from where or where migration arises or to help transit countries. It's three years after 100 million crowns. It is not just Morocco, for example the Sahel region. I would like to stress that, in addition to the Eastern Mediterranean, where there were some 80,000 migrants coming this way last year, there is still a Western route. Over 30,000 migrants have just gone through the region of Morocco, they have gone to Spain, and to a much lesser extent, there has indeed been a reduction in the migration pressure across Libya and Tunisia in the Central Mediterranean, where a number of measures that we have taken at that European level have actually worked. If we are talking about the fact that we really want to combat illegal migration effectively, one of the main ways is to deal with it at roots, sources, and in this regard the Czech Republic wants to be active. The CZK 300 million will be for stabilization projects, conflict resolution projects, to combat extremism in countries such as Mali, Burkina Faso, Niger. There are also our soldiers who have one goal to help resolve long-standing conflicts, which are just one of the causes of migration towards Europe. About Turkey, I don't want to develop a long description of the situation or the relations with Turkey. Of course, they're complicated, but I had the Turkish ambassador at the meeting yesterday. And I am convinced that we will continue with the debates. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u59	You can check in one more time. I have a factual comment from my colleague Klaus, but I don't see him here, although I saw him in the hall. In that case, a colleague of Mr. Foldyna and then a colleague of Mr. Kobza.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u60	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Minister, I'm not pointing my point at you, I just want to tell you one thing when we're talking about the millions. The millions of money that are being given is nothing more than the money that the Czech taxpayer is handing over. That means the people of the law are forced to hand over the money. And I want to warn you from this point of view that there are 55,000 residents living in the Šluknov Ridge who don't have a hospital today, and you're sending their money to some Morocco, some noble targets that have no effect at all. And I'm asking you all here to send $68 million to the Regional Authority in Ústí nad Labem to buy a hospital in Rumburk and use the money for the people who gave it. There's no point here. We're throwing them out the window. You all see it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u61	Thank you. Now a factual comment by Jiří Kobza, then Vice-President of the Government of Hamáček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I'd just like to respond to Minister Petříček. Because, as the classic says, the situation on the battlefield is changing at any moment, and as we see - I have already mentioned - the example of Turkey, where the process between a decision and a deed or an act is actually in the course of hours or days, so I think it is high time now to rethink these projects which are aimed at helping the source countries of migration. Because it is now a much more topical matter to help guard the Schengen borders, and when they are protected, it is only to address the issue of the source countries. But in the first place, it has to be clearly blocked by the passage through the Schengen border. I would be here in this situation - and I thank the Minister for reminding the Western way. Of course, we have the Khartoum Process, we have the Rabat Process, we have the New York Declaration and both of them, which, of course, are already getting into some kind of counterweight against the situation at the border. And I think the diplomatic matter will sort this out somehow. But the fact is that now is the time when we, as Evropan, must think of Europe first and only Africa. Because I helped in my work for a nonprofit organization at various events, and I know that in the first place, when someone wants to help, they have to help themselves. It must be taken care of, and then it can only take care of the others, because otherwise it will become itself another burden simply to the system itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u63	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the de facto remark made by Prime Minister Jan Hamáček and then by colleague Petříček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u64	Thank you. I would have responded to my colleague, Foldyna. I see that when he is no longer burdened with membership of social democracy, he speaks freely. I would just like to point out that we should be very careful with the remarks about tax payers and where the money goes. The Šluknovský protrude problem is huge. We know about him, the government's handling him. But it should primarily be addressed by the representativeship of the Ústí Region, because the problem is not simple, and I think there was room for a solution. But to be populist here, let's not send money to development aid, send it to Sluknov, that can be very tricky. I look forward to having a debate on the European Union's budgetary framework, about subsidies, as they will say in the Danish Parliament and in the French Parliament, "let's not send our taxpayers' money to the Czech Republic, we'll send it to a hospital somewhere in Perpignan, where it needs to be put". That'll be an interesting debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u65	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the de facto remark of Minister Petříček. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u66	I will no longer respond to Mr Foldyna when the Vice-President of the Government has done so. At the same time, I would like to supplement the Member. Of course, I cannot agree that we would only respond to what has happened in the last 24 hours. I believe that responsible foreign policy is also one that looks at developments in the situation elsewhere, and will just try to prevent us from meeting with the fact that what is happening now at the border between Turkey and Bulgaria and Greece will not be happening to us in Ceuta or elsewhere. That is why it is necessary at the moment that the Czech Republic participates in the joint resolution of the crisis, which is deepening in the North African, Sahel region, where the migration pressure will only increase if something does not change. So the program, which has been approved by the government, is aimed precisely at preventing similar situations elsewhere. The fact that we cannot not respond to what is happening and to ensure the protection of the European Union's external borders is clear. That is why the two meetings are also convened at the level of the Council of the European Union. Here too, it is also necessary to support Greece clearly and specifically, not only politically but also financially, technically and materially, even if Frontex's mandate is activated and extended. And in that regard, I'd like us not to link the questions together. I am also convinced, and unfortunately this has fallen repeatedly in this debate - negotiations with the Turkish side are the way to resolve the situation. We are promoting compliance with the 2016 EU-Turkey agreement because it has ensured stabilisation in this area for four years. Now Turkey is blackmailing the European Union, but this situation can be dealt with in negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u67	Minister, you have made a point of fact. I have no choice but to end your point of order. Another factual point is that of Mr Miroslav Kalousek, Mr Koten and Mrs Válková are still waiting. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u68	Thank you for the floor. I listen carefully to the debate and I like it. However, I would like to point out, or point out, a certain comical element. How much we spend on development aid, or how much we spend on humanitarian aid in the source countries of migration, is prescribed for this year by the State Budget Act. I didn't vote for the law for a number of reasons, but those items really weren't the reason, I would never criticize them. However, when it comes to criticizing the government Member who voted in favour of the budget today, and thus for these items, it is a bit of a gift. Maybe we should be aware of what we're defending here and what we're protesting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u69	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before I give the floor to Mr Radek Koten, I state my apologies to the Chamber of Deputies. Because of the illness Martin Kolovratník and Mrs Levová apologizes for the whole day from 11 to 13 o'clock. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u70	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr President. I would mention a few facts here in this context. Some of it has already been said, some of it hasn't. Turkey has entered Syria as a NATO member, a very dangerous situation. I think Turkey only wants more money by blackmailing it into doing so with its military engagement in Syria, and it needs to blackmail the European Union in this way in order to get more money. It's got a couple of planes. Of course, the entrance to Syria generates other refugees, another refugee wave, which therefore rises and goes on to Europe. Therefore, helping Greece is quite crucial to us, because, given the number of migrants heading through Greece to Europe from Turkey, I think it is absolutely crucial, and the Czech Republic, on the basis of the information that has been given here, should therefore, on the basis of the Greek request, comply with the assistance to the extent that the Greek party wants to do so. As far as migration routes are concerned, Hungary and Viktor Orbán, with their absolutely decisive stance on migration, by building a fence, are actually subservient to what the European Union has not done here in five or six years, because no protection of the external borders of the Schengen area has yet worked. This means that those migrants who decide to migrate towards Germany or Sweden or any other place in Western Europe are actually almost free to travel. From the time that Mr Salvini was the Minister of the Interior of Italy, we know that the non-profits that drove migrants from Libyan shores to Italian ports had bad luck at the time. As far as non-profit organisations are concerned, non-profit organisations are also supported from the EU budget and from other Member States' budgets, and it is those nonprofits that bring migrants from the African continent and from other parts that actually bring them here. So we're still funding the problem. [[11.20 hours]] We have filed an amendment to the law with us regarding non-profit organizations, it is a amendment to the Civil Code, so that the money that would be from foreign donors is published in transparent accounts with those non-profit organisations. Well, the government has given a negative opinion on this proposal - 12 days after I uploaded the amendment into the system. In 12 days, there was a negative position. So this government also supports those nonprofit organizations that then try to import refugees into the European Union and us. And we've been pointing this out all along, but unfortunately, it's only now that the other parties are recovering when there's a threat of nearly 4 million refugees waiting at the borders of Greece and wanting to get into the European Union. As for one other thing that was said somewhere in Germany, perhaps in the European Union, I suspect that it was either last year or last year, when even Turkey was considered joining the European Union. That is what I think would be a total nonsense that could happen, because the fact that we were talking about some visas here, etc., is one thing, but the accession of Turkey to the European Union, which was considered and which the Turkish President then had in some conditions in order to prevent the relocation of migrants to Europe, we see that it did not follow the same - we do not follow the other things from the Dublin Protocol, that the first safe country should be a refuge for migrants, because we actually tolerate the fact that the migrants are not getting back into reality, staying or moving back to other countries, and that return policy is also failing. So I can only see that the European Union has the full mouth of all possible measures to resolve this, but yet it shoots itself into its own feet by sponsoring, and generously sponsoring, non-profit organizations that travel between the borders of Libya, Italy, Spain, etc., and Greece, and import illegal migrants there. So, in my opinion, it is absolutely imperative to limit the money to non-profit organizations that commit this activity first. I dare say here that even by the way these illegal migrants are imported here, they are even committing some crimes of trafficking in human beings, etc. or bringing people to other continents. So if we don't figure out the exact basis, that is. that the European Union actively supports this and supports it financially, so we can still talk about some resolutions here and we can still give how to prevent migration, but if we don't do the first thing here, then they will always follow and continue to follow all the steps that they are. There is no external protection of the Schengen border and we are still not doing it. Well, I don't know, it really needs to be faced with this, and the Hungarian solution must be promoted in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u71	I thank Mr Koten. Now, Mrs Helena Válková, who is duly signed up for the debate. Before I give her my word, my colleague Daniel Pawlas apologizes from 11.00 to 12.30 for a doctor's visit. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u72	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I actually want to create, together with my fellow Member, Helena Langšádlová, who first picked up this card here, but I was happy to supplement it and confirm what we will present as a proposal in the resolution, and I assume that not only ours, but that you will all join it, so that it does not completely fit in with the necessary debate on how to help Greece and what we have talked about, the humanitarian dimension. Of course, we will leave it to the government, and we should not want to do anything else, what concrete steps, if we approve this amendment, will be fulfilled. So then I'll read it, but since it's one sentence, so that you can prepare and possibly think about the support or not support, we want to suggest that the Chamber of Deputies states that in the context of a solution... I don't know...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u73	Madam, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace, because I would like everyone to have a decent environment for their performance. If you are discussing a subject other than the two fixed points, please basically in the foyer. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u74	Thank you very much. So the Chamber of Deputies notes that, in the context of addressing the current situation in the area of the migration crisis, it is also necessary to remember its humanitarian dimension, particularly as regards the provision of the necessary assistance to the most vulnerable groups, especially children, women and older people. Now a little comment. We deliberately voted cautiously - in the sense that we do not say how in any way, but we say clearly that we do not have a much more specific solution in some ways to forget the humanitarian area. And then let me just-- that provoked me, I think, second-to-last or last performance, I'm sorry. I really went through the asylum centers in Greece, and now in Croatia, and I think whoever wasn't there must have a vivid enough imagination to understand everything in context. And just as I pointed out in the autumn of this year, actually in the summer, that we have to distinguish between different-minded non-state non-profit organizations, so it is necessary twice as far as non-profits are concerned, for example. in Greece. You know there's been a change in government. The government has done an analysis, evaluated non-profit organizations that did not work very well in her opinion - I will say this carefully because it is a foreign country, so we will not criticize it in this way - and basically points out that they are non-state nonprofit organizations, without which they would not have managed, but at all, the influx of immigrants, which are absolutely necessary, which are taking care of those who are coming there heavily traumatized, and they are helping them psychologically, psychotherapy, where those state institutions, health professionals are not enough. And then there are other non-state non-profit organizations that have assessed that they do otherwise, that's what I'd say diplomatically. So please, let's not throw all the nonprofits in Greece into one bag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u75	Thank you, Mrs Helena Válková. Now with the priority right Radim Fiala, then Zdeněk Ondráček. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u76	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Kobza read here in one of his speeches a while ago, and he requested the position of the Greek Embassy, which says that if we want to help them with something, he needs political support and technical support, I would be allowed to read the motion for a resolution for the SPD, when the Chamber of Deputies expresses the full support of the Hellenic Republic in protecting the border with Turkey from illegal migration. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to support Greece's efforts in defending and protecting borders, and agrees with the possible deployment of the Czech Security Councils to carry out this task. I think that there is political support in the motion for a resolution, which I lack in the multi-point motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Černochová, and of course there is also the possibility of technical support on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I note that we are still in the general debate and, of course, the motions for a resolution will be detailed in the debate, so then I would like you to repeat them or refer them to them. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u78	So, after so many hours of discussion, when we expected it to be considerably shorter, but we also got to other topics than the point that we proposed yesterday across the political spectrum and also approved and which we are discussing, after hearing the whole discussion that took place, we agreed with our colleague and others who participated in the preparation of the motion for a resolution, which was recorded by Mrs Černochová right at the beginning in her opening speech, that we would add one more point to the resolution, which would be behind the one, i.e. And then we'd renumber it. And there would actually be something that a colleague from the SPD said. We wrote it this way: The Chamber of Deputies supports all the efforts of the Greek Government to protect national borders and thus the external borders of the Schengen area. [[11.30 hours]] Those things that involve the police and sending out police officers, we already have that on some of those points. But then, of course, I'm going to introduce you, and I suppose the negotiations have already taken place here, between you two, that I'll always read the point afterwards, we'll vote on individual points, and I'll always say where it's from. But then we'll come to an agreement when we're done with the debate and we're going to vote. We're getting close, and I'm very happy for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-003-999.u79	Thank you. I have no application for a debate. I am therefore ending the joint debate. I'm asking for final words. It's not like that. We can move on. Let us open a detailed debate first, on the point
