ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, before we begin this 70th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to remind you of the agenda for today's day. The 65th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies should begin at 14 o'clock. It will begin. And then the 69th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin at 6 p.m. If any of these meetings are to be opened without the previous meeting being negotiated, there is an agreement between the Members' Club Chairs that we would always interrupt the next one and finish the one that is being negotiated. To record our participation, I've just checked you out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards, or to tell me who votes with the replacement card. I, Radek Vondráček, vote with replacement card number 10. I called this meeting following Section 109m of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of a proposal from the Government to express the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the period of emergency. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Monday, November 16, 2020. We would first proceed to identifying the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Jana Krutáková and Mrs Jana Valachová. I'm asking if anyone else has a proposal to identify the verifiers of the meeting. [[There are voices from the diaper: Kateřina Valachová.]] I don't see anyone. What did I say? Then I'll call my coworkers from the lobby. I apologize for the mistress Kateřina Valachová. And we'll give our colleagues a moment. Maybe I'd take advantage of that moment when we meet in the O.R. Before the beginning of the meeting, I was asked if she could speak briefly before opening the item and opening the meeting with President Pekarová Adamová. Well, I'd ask her now, maybe she'd use that time to get out. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for your kindness, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask you to pay a minute's silence to 6 740 coronavirus victims in the Czech Republic before starting today's program, which is the number that is still in the statistics, but they are not just statistics. They're specific people with their destinies, parents, grandparents, daughters, sons. And I think, given that they certainly miss and miss their families very much, we could honor all of these - certainly not the whole number, there will be more - all of these people with a minute's silence, with their participation. In recent weeks, the rate of increase in the number of victims varies between 150 and 200 people a day. And I think it would be a reminder to us how serious the situation is. I beg you for this kindness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-000-000.u3	Well, thank you. If there is no objection to any of the membership clubs, I would like to grant this request and I would ask all of you for one minute of silence for all the victims of the pandemic. [[The MPs rose and a minute of silence honored the victims of the pandemic.]] Thank you. Now, let's follow up on the program like I said. We are now expected to vote on the verifiers of the meeting. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number one, logged in is 84, for 79, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that we have designated Ms Jana Krutáková and Ms Kateřina Valachová as the verifier of the 70th meeting. After the agreement of all clubs, today we meet in reduced numbers. I note that all Members who are not present or excused in writing are deemed to be excused under the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs. Madam Members, on 5 October the Government declared in accordance with Article 5 and 6 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on the safety of the Czech Republic, for the territory of the Czech Republic due to health risks in connection with the demonstration of the occurrence of coronavirus known as SARS-CoV-2 in the Czech Republic for a maximum period of 30 days. The Chamber of Deputies subsequently held its 62nd meeting on 30 October of this year by its resolution No. At the request of the Government, 1326 extended the duration of the emergency situation until 20 November this year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, the Government may extend the period for declaring emergency status only after the prior approval of the Chamber of Deputies. On 16 November this year, the government asked the Chamber of Deputies to extend the emergency period in connection with the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic until 20 December this year. According to Article 109m (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) The Chamber of Deputies shall decide on such a proposal in abridged procedure. So we would now proceed to our own 70th meeting, as shown on the invitation. I just forgot to read the government's apologies. Minister Lubomír Metnar apologizes for working reasons, Tomáš Petříček within 13 hours for working reasons, Robert Plaga is present, but Robert Plaga cancels his apology, Minister Alena Schillerová from the morning meeting because of the Senate meeting and must be present in the Senate, and Minister Miroslav Toman for working reasons. According to § 109m only the draft agenda of the meeting and not the approved agenda of the meeting can be supplemented. I'm asking if there's a proposal to complete the program as it was in the invitation? I don't see anyone. We will therefore vote on the whole proposal for the 70th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. So we will only be discussing an extension of the emergency situation. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the motion for a meeting. Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered 91, for 72, against no one. The motion was accepted. The agenda of the meeting was therefore approved. I just have a little bit of information. If we fail to discuss the emergency situation within one hour, the next meeting is scheduled to start at two, although it would be formally launched and would be interrupted, but it always takes five minutes between those meetings to reconfigure the system so that you can understand it and that it is a technical issue. [[8.10 hours]] Opening point
