ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-009-325.u1	325. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the prevention of double taxation in the field of income taxes and on the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance, signed in Biškek on 9 April 2019 /German press 487/ - second reading Prime Minister Alena Schillerová will take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-009-325.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. Allow me to present to you the double taxation treaty with Kyrgyzstan signed on 9 April 2019 in Bishkek. The foreign policy of the Czech Republic is certainly aimed at developing mutually beneficial economic relations with other countries of the world. The international tax treaty aims to limit the tax burden on entities in the exclusion of international double taxation. There is currently a non-contractual relationship in the mutual tax relations between the Czech Republic and Kyrgyzstan, and the existence of a double taxation treaty is undoubtedly necessary for the development of future relations between the two states. Kyrgyzstan is the last country from the former Soviet Union with which the Czech Republic does not yet have a treaty to prevent double taxation. The Double Taxation Treaty, which is currently being proposed in relations between the Czech Republic and Kyrgyzstan, was prepared on the basis of OECD and UN model models, which, of course, responds to the internal tax rules of both countries. The Treaty contains all the so-called minimum standards that result from the BEPS project, so it is actually based on these international standards. This tax agreement is very important for our business entities. The bilateral relations between the Czech Republic and Kyrgyzstan are good, but the current volume of trade cooperation in absolute terms is becoming more modest. In recent years, the trend seems to be changing and there has been an increase in contacts between the business sectors of both countries, which, together with other measures, creates a prerequisite for the growth of mutual trade in the coming years. For example, an agreement on cooperation between the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Economy of the Kyrgyz Republic can be mentioned in April 2019. Kyrgyzstan is one of the countries of Central Asia and offers Czech investors many opportunities for investment - for example in the light industry, food industry, beer and farm production technologies, sewage treatment plants, hydro power plants, transport equipment and, last but not least, tourism. Due to relatively low imports from Kyrgyzstan, the balance of trade between them is significantly in favour of our country. The total turnover of trade more than doubled in 2017 compared to the previous year to a value of more than $16 million, slightly above $11 million in 2018. In Kyrgyzstan, for example, the Czech company Regulus is active, which delivered the heating system to the construction of the largest yurt in the world. At the same time, the text reflects developments and trends in the international tax field. This tax agreement will enable the coordination of the activities of the tax authorities of both states to limit tax evasion cases and, last but not least, will enable the relevant exchange of information. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-009-325.u3	Thank you. The Foreign Committee rapporteur is Mrs Monika Červíčková. The committee resolution was delivered to us as House Press 487/1. The rapporteur is now justifying it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-009-325.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the text of the Foreign Committee resolution which was discussed on 2 April 2020 in the House of the Press. After the statement of reasons of Deputy Minister of Finance Ing. Kouba, Mrs Červíčková's intelligence report and, after the debate, the Foreign Committee recommends, first of all, that: The Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Treaty between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the avoidance of double taxation in the field of income taxes and on the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance, signed in Biškek on 9 April 2019.' zadruhé, he instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, and thirdly empowers the rapporteur of the Committee to report on the results of this government proposal at a meeting of the Foreign Committee at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-009-325.u5	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. No one is signed up for the debate, and I am done with the debate. There's no interest in final words. We will vote on the motion for a resolution. We're ready for the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 127, 90 Members signed in for 80, against no one. The motion was accepted. I'm done discussing this point. Opening point
