ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u1	4. Proposal for the establishment of the Examination Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the purchase and distribution of protective equipment and other medical material by the organizational units of the Czech Republic at the time of emergency A group of 46 Members submitted a proposal to set up this committee of inquiry. At the same time, this group prepared a motion for a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies, which is part of the House document 5371. Please take the floor of Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová and, where appropriate, the members of the Piráti Membership Club, the TOP 09 Membership Club, the STAN Membership Club and the ODS Membership Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u2	Thank you for the floor. A weighted torso of government, honourable Members, I would also like to present at this advanced evening a point concerning the establishment of an investigative commission on the purchase and distribution of protective equipment and other medical material by the organisational units of the Czech Republic during the emergency period, as permitted by the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, namely Section 48 of this Act. It's pretty simple, I don't think it's a complicated material. There were just billions worth of purchases, there was distribution of materials, protective equipment, medical supplies, it was worth about 700 million crowns, this transport cost a lot of money as well. So it is in the interests of the Chamber of Deputies to control the government whether it has treated these really large sums of taxpayers' money correctly. I think that the various suspicions that this has not always been the case justify us setting up this committee. There's something else in the SAO's office that he's gonna be checking, and something else is a committee of inquiry, which he's gonna be investigating by definition. It is also not only as we propose in our resolution, together with other Members who signed up for this proposal and to whom I thank it, but also to evaluate the efficiency of the purchase and to propose systemic changes and recommendations on how to distribute and how to provide protective equipment in the future. Because as it sounds all day today, it is important to prepare for a possible second wave, to be prepared for the situation to deteriorate again, and protective equipment will be needed. We therefore propose - and I would like to read the whole motion for a resolution: "Deputy Chamber of Deputies 1. 1 of Constitutional Act No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, and pursuant to §48 para. 1, Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the Commission of Investigation for the Purchase and Distribution of Safeguards and Other Medical Material at the Time of Emergency; 2. Instructs the Commission of Investigation to purchase and distribute protective equipment and other medical material during an emergency period (a) to collect all supporting documents for the purchase and distribution of protective equipment and other medical material at an emergency time from individual organisational units of the State; (b) assess the effectiveness and transparency of such purchases and compliance with the required quality; (c) propose systemic changes and recommendations to ensure transparent and efficient purchases and ensure effective distribution of products by individual organisational units of the State at the time of emergency; 3. instructs the Government of the Czech Republic to provide full cooperation to the Commission of Investigation in its functioning; 4. sets a time limit within which the Commission of inquiry is required to submit its findings to the Chamber of Deputies by 31 March 2021; 5. It shall determine the number of members of the committee of inquiry to nine and shall determine the majority way in which they are elected, after one representative from each member's club." That is therefore the whole motion for a resolution, which I dare to put forward here. And as for the debate that was partly held here last week, when we were discussing the agenda at all, so many facts, many complaints, many reservations have already been raised. I would only react very briefly to the fact that both the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Health themselves declared in the debate that they would not be in favour of setting up the commission. It seems very strange to me, therefore, because both in the media and here in the Chamber of Deputies have repeatedly expressed themselves, that they have a completely clear conscience and that all purchases have been done in the best possible intention, and, of course, in their view, completely purely. And if they're so sure, I don't see any reason to resist them. It is surprising, then, that some committee of inquiry in the Chamber of Deputies should bother them. We should not resign as the Chamber of Deputies to have a supervisory function towards the government, that is, our division of power, and I think that we should continue to fulfil this function during an emergency period. And that's why the committee of inquiry has a great sense. Not only because, as I say, we are talking here about many billions of crowns of taxpayers' money, but simply because we live in a parliamentary democracy, where these clear limits of division of power are justified. And I firmly hope that this is what everyone in this Chamber of Deputies feels and wants to carry out this function as well. That is why I am asking you - and I am also going to say on behalf of the remaining 45 colleagues who have signed up for the proposal to set up the Commission - to give the Commission the opportunity to be set up. In order for nine Members, each member of a Membership, to be able to fulfil their duties for several months, to examine how all these aids were purchased, whether there was transparent and efficient spending of taxpayers' money. And if I may, in particular, highlight the aspect that concerns precisely the lessons learned from this year's development for future possible epidemics, disasters, just all the possible reasons for which it would be necessary to buy quickly in an emergency state. So that's another one of those goals that hasn't been heard enough and been emphasized, and I'd like to poke it out, because I think that's very important, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u3	Thank you and I would like to ask Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová to follow me from the rapporteur's table to the general debate that I am opening at the moment and to ask if anyone is applying for it. Member Luzar, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to follow up on the debate that was held before this point, where we have also dealt partly with this point, and there have been some arguments that need to be recalled here on this issue. The argument came from my previous speakers that this committee will discuss invoices, discuss accounts, discuss contracts and look for them. I suppose you all remember that. Then what will the poor SAO do to check invoices, contracts, etc.? There's already been a collision with the SAO's work, and now they're holding each other back. Isn't it really better to wait for the SAO to finish the job and then check the invoices and the other stuff? Or do we think the SAO will do worse to check the invoices and the contracts and so on than the investigation committee? But the argument was made. So I really think it's relevant to wait. And, of course, I'm not resisting an investigation, and I think there'll be enough time to deal with it. Because it will indeed be an opportunity to address this, and pandemic and crisis plans are ahead of us and will be 100% changed and with deep intervention in the economy of the Czech Republic. But wait for it SAO, I think it's only the decency of us politicians to allow him to work calmly, not under stress, not under the efforts of those documents to be handed over and dealt with. But let's wait for their message, and then on its basis, let's take steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u5	Thank you. Mr Kalousek, with a factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u6	Hello. I think that most of you were here when I explained in quite detail the qualitative difference between the control that the SAO has in its competence and the investigations that law enforcement authorities can make or in the public interest of the commission of inquiry. It's not the same thing. The investigation committee can investigate. The SAO can only control. Please, if you don't want to set up the investigation committee, at least don't make false arguments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u7	Mr Luzar, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u8	Thank you. Those were some false words that came from my previous speaker. I was just pointing out clearly that there will be two groups of controllers or investigators, as you want to call it, it doesn't really matter which ones are going to deal with one of the primary primary documents, and maybe at the same time, and they're going to hold each other back. Then it is very easy to lose such evidence, very easy to handle. And I wouldn't want that manipulation to happen. And I would very much like the SAO to be the body I trust to be the first to look into these documents and draw conclusions. Nothing more, nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u9	Thank you. I don't have any more applications at the moment. Mr. Ambassador Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good evening, colleagues. There aren't many of us here, I mean the Social Democrats. However, I dare say my position for our club. After all, I've already briefed him on various press briefings this week. We are not opposed to setting up a committee of inquiry, but we will not support its establishment. [[Laughs in the hall.]] In this case. In this case. If you'd let me finish, you wouldn't be laughing. And that's for one reason only. I am a friend of Parliament's democracy. I believe that Members are doing their job and the Institute of Investigation Committee has some meaning. However, when we look at the history of the Czech Republic, most committees of inquiry did not do much. I don't mean to offend anyone. I don't want to offend those of the investigation committees that worked in some way. The conclusions that have always been made have been on the water. When I look at the last committee of inquiry concerning OKD, and I respond through the President to President Kalousek, I think he was one of the few against the establishment of this committee of inquiry. I quite understood the arguments back then. And now President Kalousek is actually back to setting up a committee of inquiry. There I see a certain contradiction in logic. As far as the SAO investigation is concerned, we'll say the SAO controls. Okay. But there are other organs that are actually investigating. These are law enforcement agencies - the police, of course, the prosecutor's office, after all, at the last stage of the trial. And I'd really leave it up to them, the investigation. That is, if there has been an infringement, and I believe it has not, but I also believe that if it is, it will be punished by those law enforcement authorities, so let the police, prosecutors, have the courts held. But please, let's not take that authority. Because the logic - the SAO controls, the commission of inquiry investigates - would then mean that we will feel that there are many means of transport, traffic offences in the Czech Republic, and are not being investigated as they should, so we can also take the right to set up an investigation committee - investigation - means of transport. Therefore, in my view, it has political logic that the opposition would like to draw attention to the fact that there may have been some injustices. But legal logic, please, doesn't have legal logic, because here we really have the authorities, the ones they're investigating, and the ones they have to investigate, that means the police - and I believe in their independence, the state's attorney - I believe in their independence, and then I believe in the independence of the courts in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u11	Thank you. And now I have two factual points. First Mr Feranec, then Mr Kalousek and then the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, just as my colleague Kalousek said, he's just checking the SAO. But the SAO controls both compliance with processes and economy, the efficiency of spending state resources. And in a lot of cases, we do remember that his inspection ends by filing a criminal report. And to me, the entrance of the investigation committee is - to me it is, it may be, a living case. And, of course, the result of the commission is a political body. What are we gonna talk about? So, in fact, MEPs should not, as if, enter living cases. For this reason, I will not vote in favour. But I understand that if the SAO has any result and says that there is some error - systemic, whatever - I understand that then it is a work for Members to propose an adjustment to some rules and so on. So let's just really let the organs that are meant to do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u13	Thank you. Now, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u14	I don't want to keep you, but I'm a little desperate for the fact that I'm probably misinterpreting today that I don't understand. When I was against the OKD investigation committee as one of the few here, so I said, there's a criminal trial going on, there's something going on where the investigation is going, and the court, that means, it's not worth submitting it to the investigation committee unless there's any doubt about the objectivity of the prosecution. There's nothing like that running around here. And I hope he doesn't run. But just in the public interest, unlike the SAO, that committee of inquiry can investigate, not only what happened, but also how it happened. I just think it's in the public interest to know this in case of a second wave, the following, another problem. You don't care? We do. Just to make sure we're better prepared next time. Because this time, we really weren't ready. And if we're not ready next time, it'll be necessary because you refused to give us serious consideration and serious investigation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u15	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Pekarová, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u16	Thank you for the floor. First, towards President Chvojka by your Presidency. I want to recall the words of Minister Hamáček at the beginning of the whole crisis, when he was saying a lot of criticisms about how quickly high sums were purchased, so that someone, when this is over, should set up a commission to assess whether or not there should be an investigation. I'm not exactly saying that. Paraphrasing. But I remember those words very well here that they actually sounded. Now that the emergency is over, when we're behind the worst, suddenly the committee of inquiry is useless, she never investigated anything. It's the usual phrases that come out here when you want to turn something down. We believe that something is crystal clear, but don't let anyone look into it, so it's quiet here for the work of the SAO. That's what I'm talking about now, since I'm going to mix Mr Luzar's speech into it. Typically, I'd like to add. But it seems to me that in a very clear way here in other words, in a different way you are just saying yes, the Chamber of Deputies should give up - giving up - its powers of control, which we have here towards the government. That's what you say in other words, but you say in other words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u17	Thank you, and now there are two more factual points. First Mr Farský, then Mr Valenta. Quiet in the hall, please! Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u18	Thank you for the floor. I don't quite understand the resistance that's going up against the investigation committee here. It's probably for all of us, for two reasons. One is the one to really learn from how everything went down. We know that at some point there was one shopping team, another shopping team, someone was delivering, someone was delivering to the Czech Republic. It was at different prices. Air bridges were created. At that point, we'd all be really surprised at the situation, no matter who's in charge. But our job is not to be surprised if it doesn't happen for God's sake a second time. And the committee of inquiry is to discuss these steps and set up a plan, and maybe even figure out that some laws need to be changed, that they simply complicated the work on the purchases, and then she came to the Chamber of Deputies and she gave us the recommendation and said, "If we don't want to put ourselves in that kind of danger next time, let's do this and this." - It's in the interest of all of us to accept this. And the second interest, which I think is equally significant, is that around the purchase here certainly certain flavors appeared. Ninety-nine percent of the money went to China, only one percent was spent in the Czech Republic. Although many Czech companies have been saying to the government since March: Shop with us, we have the resources and we are able to deliver them under better conditions than you are taking them from China. Maybe it was, maybe it wasn't. But if you block the emergence of that committee of inquiry, then the aftertaste will remain here forever, and it will look like you have a desire to hide something. Do you have a desire to hide something? Answer the vote! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u19	Time! Thank you, and Mr Valenta is at this moment the last person to make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm so sorry, I haven't performed today, and even now my performance isn't going to be very long. Just let me finish with one quote. "Absurd is the whole thing. An investigation committee is set up when there is an objective concern that standard institutions are under political pressure and do not save objectively. On the contrary, political pressure on objective investigations is being created here." Do you know who said that? Miroslav Kalousek in 2018 when the committee was due to investigate OKD, and added: "The symbol of absurdity of the committee of inquiry for OKD is the participation of Václav Klaus Jr.." How convenient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u21	Thank you, and that was all the actual comments at the moment. Nor do I have anyone enrolled in the debate, so if no one else is reporting, then I am done with the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word after the general debate. It is, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u22	I am only very briefly, because I have already read the whole motion for a resolution here once, so I hope that we will not have to drag this up now and that you have it in front of you. But I would like to appeal to you repeatedly, yes, the SAO will certainly be in control, but the Chamber of Deputies can fulfil its duties here so that it can actually be investigated how it was handled with really small funds. And that's really not a trivial thing that we should look at through our fingers, that it's an institute that's never solved anything or that's necessary. Because, like the vast majority of us, we are in no position to debugate our ability to interpel the government, so many of us here would very much like to take advantage of the opportunity, so, as the Rules of Procedure give us the opportunity, we would have the desire and opportunity to take advantage of it, to set up an investigative commission, so that we can actually prove that everything was as crystal clear as the various ministries and their representatives tell us, nothing more, nothing less, and learn from it and make it a plan for future purchases. Because we never know when a situation like this can happen again, and we have the opportunity to be better prepared for it. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u23	Thank you. Mrs Kovářová cancels her apology. That was the final word. So we will now proceed to a debate in detail, in which I have no applications. At this point, it would be necessary at least to appeal to the press we have.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u24	I hereby refer to the motion for a resolution tabled, which I have already presented here in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-004-004.u25	Yes, and it is in House document 5371. If no one else reports for a detailed debate, I will conclude the detailed debate. At the same time, there's a request for a check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe you. I've called my colleagues to the O.R. And after a detailed debate, once again, there is a possibility for final words, but I do not think that they are needed. So we should proceed to the vote. There is only one motion for a resolution that should be voted in whole. So I don't think it's necessary to approve the procedure, because we have one suggestion. So if everyone is present, the number of entries is steady, I'm taking the vote. I ask who is in favour of the motion for a resolution to set up a committee of inquiry, as it has been tabled. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 39 vote, 121 Members and Members are enrolled, for 50, against 14. The motion was therefore rejected. I thank the rapporteur and the appellant. That's how we ran out of this point. I note that the commission has not been set up, and this point is over. We have also exhausted the 50th meeting, which I am also ending. And I'm declaring a five-minute technical break, because now we're going to continue the interrupted 47th meeting, as agreed on Tuesday at the Grémium. Thank you for your patience.
