ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-004-003.u1	3. Jana Krutáková, Jan Farský, Věra Kovářová, Vít Rakušan, Petr Gazdík and Petr Pávek's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 254/2001 Coll., on waters and on the amendment of certain laws (water law), as amended /German press 681/ - first reading This is House printing 681, starting with the first reading. The Government's position has been delivered to us as House Press 681/1. I ask that the proposal put forward as an applicant by Mrs Jana Krutáková. Quiet in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-004-003.u2	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the proposal of Members of the Club of the Mayors movement and independent of the amendment of Act 254/2001 Coll., Act on Waters, as amended. In this proposal, the Mayors are responding to the concept of protection against droughts for the territory of the Czech Republic approved by the Government in July 2017. Among the measures to protect against drought effects, this concept includes...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-004-003.u3	Madam, I very much understand you, and I will ask my fellow Members to move their discussions elsewhere, to eventually settle in the benches and not to disturb the speeches.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-004-003.u4	Thank you. This concept includes, inter alia, the construction of new multipurpose tanks, the promotion of modernisation and development of agricultural irrigation, the renewal of existing and the construction of new irrigation tanks, the restoration of natural water elements in the landscape, such as spring beds, pools, nifty meadows, wetland areas, lateral and detachment shoulders of watercourses. Those measures must be built systematically and on a comprehensive scale. This is why they cannot be ideally planned so that they can only be carried out on immovable property owned by entities that will implement them. In order to implement them, although often only to a minimum, it is necessary to intervene in the property rights of third parties, including the State or municipalities or regions. Unfortunately, the current legislation does not offer appropriate instruments in the situation of the opposition of the owners of the land concerned to a solution in a private manner where measures or construction cannot be implemented elsewhere. An agreement with owners is not always possible, or it may be lengthy to reach it. Land adjustments are then generally more than five years in the proceedings. In some cases, it may be possible to restrict or withdraw ownership in the expropriation procedure, but this procedure cannot be applied to all the measures mentioned above, or the possibility of using this procedure is not clear. This problem was also recalled by the Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman, who wrote: The introduction of changes that will affect the way agriculture is managed, landscape management and increased accumulation of water in tanks to strengthen our water resources, which have started to be at the limit of possibilities, has a number of complicated factors, especially property rights to land. An important obstacle is also the need to define these measures and structures in the planning documentation as publicly beneficial buildings. According to Section 55 and Act No. 254/2001 Coll., Water Law, then you can withdraw or restrict the rights to land and buildings needed to carry out publicly beneficial structures to protect against floods. It follows that it is now possible to withdraw or restrict ownership. Buildings and measures to reduce the adverse effects of drought in the form of measures on flows, creation of new tanks, construction of new irrigation systems, building biotechnical measures in the landscape, such as openings, leaking belts, can therefore be established on the land and against the will of their owners on the basis of a decision to restrict or withdraw ownership under the expropriation law already today. They can be inferior to one of the above-mentioned purposes of expropriation. However, the legal basis for the possible applicability is uncertain as the possibility of expropriation must be imported by interpretation of the existing and very general provisions which may be called into question. Those provisions may be interpreted in practice in a narrower manner. We therefore propose the introduction of a separate and more clearly formulated purpose of expropriation in order to combat drought. And I would like to conclude by quoting the draft paragraph that we propose to introduce into the amendment of the Water Act. It's Section 55a. We propose the following text: Rights to real estate necessary for the implementation of construction, repair, modification, modernisation and reconstruction of buildings and measures to mitigate the effects of flooding and drought - this is an important word that we want to add there - to increase the retention capacity of the landscape, irrigation and the solution of drainage conditions in the landscape can be withdrawn or reduced in accordance with the law on expropriation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-004-003.u5	Thank you. I have some information here. Mr Grospič is present and cancels his apology. And Mr Jurečka apologizes today for the afternoon meeting for work reasons. And now I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Karel Tureček, to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-004-003.u6	Well, thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just want to remind you that this House press has been sent to my fellow Members and Members on 19 December 2019. It has been discussed in the Government with a negative opinion, and I, as rapporteur, refer to this negative position. I must stress, and it has already been said here in the discussion of the Government amendment to the Water Act that we still prefer one adverse effect, and that is - we have now discussed drought. However, to make sense, and in this spirit, the government's proposal for an amendment to the water law is designed, where it puts the second negative effect of the waters on the level of flooding, and that is drought. So I join in saying that we always have to just, whether it's a drought fight or floods, see it as a reduction of the adverse effects of the waters. And they manifest themselves in two extremes, whether they're floods or droughts. You can never build a dam, a pond, or a water tank with this water structure to fight against drought. You're also fighting against another extreme, and I think tomorrow morning we'll be witnessing this very second extreme on the news, and that's floods. And on the basis of this legal interpretation, this House's press is already redundant, when I am clearly saying here that the existing regulation contained in Section 55a of the Water Act already contains this expropriation as an objective to reduce the adverse effects of water, whether the extreme excess of water or lack of water. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-004-003.u7	Thank you. So I am opening a general debate that I do not have an application for at the moment. However, the rapporteur is reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-004-003.u8	Yes. With the same reasoning, therefore, I would like to make a motion to reject this proposal at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-004-003.u9	Yes. And I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. Mr Černohorský is reporting for the debate. [[He's not interested in getting off.]] After the debate. So I just finished the debate, so please. Nothing? Never mind. So I've called my colleagues to the O.R. I will ask if there is an interest in the final words by the appellant or the rapporteur. It's not like that. In that case, we will vote on the proposals, as I said, I have already called my colleagues. There is a motion to reject the proposal. And if there are no interests or objections, then I am opening the vote on rejection. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 6, 111 Members and Members are registered, for 60, against 25. The proposal was therefore accepted. I note that we also rejected this proposal at first reading. That's the end of his hearing. So ends the discussion of this point. I thank the appellant and the rapporteur. And we're going to move on to the next point in this extraordinary meeting, which is
