ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u1	3. Government bill amending Act No. 257/2016 Coll., on Consumer Credit, as amended /German press 811/ - shortened negotiations In accordance with Article 99 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 5 assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law are in the accelerated procedure. I am opening up a debate on whether these conditions persist. I'm asking who's applying. I see no one, in which case I am ending the debate and we will be voting on whether the conditions for discussing the press of 811 remain in the shortened negotiations. We will decide in the vote number eighty-five, which I will begin in a little while. Just in case, I'll check you all out and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I'll get back on track. In a moment, we will have a sufficient number of Members. [[10.40 hours]] I am opening the vote number 85, and I am asking who is in favour of the fact that the law in question has a condition in which we will discuss this law in a short hearing. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 85, from the present 85 for 72, against 9. The motion was accepted. I note, therefore, that there are conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 257/2016 Coll., on Consumer Credit, as amended, in a shortened hearing. So we will follow this decision and I will ask the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce a government bill amending Act No. 257/2016 Coll., on Consumer Credit, as amended. The urgent need for the amendment of this important law results from the major economic impacts of the ongoing pandemic COVID-19. The proposal complements the House's 813 press, the so-called mortgage moratorium approved by this Chamber of Deputies yesterday, as it also provides solutions for cases that are not in progress and, of course, for cases after the moratorium. The Consumer Credit Act, which we imposed at the end of 2016, as the Ministry of Finance, brought a significant increase in the protection of debtors in consumer credit, among other things, by imposing restrictions on often considerably disproportionate penalties for defaulting on credit repayment. So-called credit predators, who did not lend to earn interest from the proper repayment of the loan, but in order to make money on sanctions or on the implementation of the attached pledge, often shifted their focus from a strictly regulated segment of consumer credit towards still unregulated loans for small businesses. The amendment contains only two topics. The first is the extension of restrictions on penalties for late payment to the CFI, the second is the reduction of contractual interest for long-term delay. The amendment is not aimed at imposing interest on due repayment, but only at limiting it in cases where the loan becomes unenforceable and where it cannot be expected to be repaid properly. By limiting sanctions for the self-employed, for our businessmen, small entrepreneurs, the likelihood of such a person falling into a debt trap in the event of his insolvency will be considerably reduced. In doing so, the requesting deterrent effect of the penalty shall be maintained. The reduction of contractual interest for long-term delays concerns both consumers and self-employed persons. If the delay has reached at least 90 days, the agreed interest of 8 percentage points above the repo rate of the Czech National Bank is ceilinged. So the repo rate today is one percent, one plus eight is nine percent. The current situation, when debt is growing even during the duration of the delay until it becomes incorruptible, I consider it to be unsustainable for both consumers and the self-employed. It must be borne in mind that we are talking here about loans that are already in delay for more than 90 days, so their real enforcement has significantly decreased, and for example for legal persons, this is a border where they have to enter insolvency. In addition to the contractual interest with the proposed ceiling of 8 percentage points plus repo, the right to reimbursement of costs effectively incurred, interest on late payments, again of 8 percentage points plus repo and a contractual penalty of 0,1 per cent per day of the amount in respect of which the debtor is late, is also important. For illustration. Discounted contractual interest plus legal interest on late payments plus contractual penalty amounts to a total of 54,5 % per year. I really consider this more than sufficient. I therefore consider the proposal to be balanced. Unlike other crisis measures that are of limited duration, I consider it desirable for this type of restriction to have a lasting effect. Credit predators need to be combated not only during the current crisis, but also after the crisis. At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Budgets, I was told that the measures were permanent and should not be discussed in a state of legislative emergency. But I can't agree with that. Although the effectiveness of the proposed measure is to be permanent, it is still a measure which is triggered by the current emergency situation in relation to the COVID-19 pandemic. At this very moment, when both consumers and the CFI are subject to increased economic pressure, it is necessary to ensure that, in the event of their delay, there is no unlimited increase in payments that they are obliged to pay, thereby preventing them from entering debt traps. I therefore believe that the conditions for discussing this proposal in a state of legislative emergency are met. I also believe that the proposal is completely constitutionally conformal in terms of its content. I consider it crucial that the proposed changes do not differ in principle from the changes already introduced by the Consumer Credit Act of 2016. There has already been a limitation on the payments paid by the consumer in case of default. Therefore, if there were no doubts about the constitutional conformity of the Consumer Credit Act of 2016, it should not be with this proposal either. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u3	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, and I note that the budget committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the President's decision, discussed it and adopted the resolution delivered to you as Parliament's press 811/1. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Miloslava Vostroa, to inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and to justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u4	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, allow me to introduce you to the resolution adopted by the Committee on Budgets at its meeting, which, after the introductory words of the Minister, the report and after the debate, I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic close its negotiations no later than 18.00 on 8 April 2020; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to amend Act No. 257/2016 Sb., on consumer credit, as amended, Parliament's Press 811 agreed without comments; V. empowers the rapporteur of the Committee to: (a) it has introduced this resolution to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies; (b) in cooperation with the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, it has made appropriate legislative technical adaptations. Such a motion for a resolution was adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. We will continue by deciding whether we will also have a general debate. We'll decide that by voting number 86, which I'll ask you to do. I have begun voting number 86 and I ask who is in favour of having a general detailed debate, with the five-minute agreement in force for each debate. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 86, out of 93 present 72 pros, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am therefore opening a general debate and the first one entered is Mr Pavel Juříček. A colleague of the Hrnčíř will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u6	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a simple amendment that we have been working on with the Ministry of Finance. In fact, this amendment regulates the decisive moment for determining the interest which may be charged to the consumer at a delay of more than 90 days. At this point, the first day of the calendar half-year on which there was a delay, so it is a simple change to clarify that for every consumer who has a consumer credit in delay, it is quite clear from which date it counts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u7	I thank Mr Pavel Juříček. Mr Jan Hrnčíř now. I don't see Hrnčíř's colleague, so his application is forfeit. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u8	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to say the dimension of this proposal. By the way, with his particular novel, I, and not just me, came a year ago and it concerns that the consumer protection law, which applies from 1. 12. 2016, very cultivated the consumer credit environment, quite clearly. There was one exception, and I'm sure you'll remember that, and they're so-called Ichirs. Every time someone tried to fake a loan to someone and didn't want to follow the strict rules of the consumer credit law, he said, "Here you have a thousand crowns, start a businessman, we lend it to you as a business loan, and it's like they avoid it." That means I had the appetite to change it before. This is why it's all the more important that it's gonna be the tradesmen and the self-employed who can get late. And now the dimension. I take it for the sake of clarity, for those who don't know the law as much as a big pizza, when I say it like that, all the measures that concern consumer protection, and what of it will actually now become a businessman, so that there will be no mistake here, that the whole law will be overturned by the tradesmen. So the law evaluates the consumer's creditworthiness, that is, bonita. And that goes to such an extent that if the consumer could then prove to the court that he had not been judged, he could return the principal as far as possible. That's what I think is clearly a great punishment. That's what it says. There are processes and better protection of consumers in handling complaints, complaints in dealing with consumers in recovering claims, certain information obligations in advertising, pre-contractual information, and in the event of non-crediting - that is, if they do not grant someone the loan, they must inform them of the reason. It shall not be liable by means of a note and shall not be in a clear proportion to the amount of the loan. And now I'm coming to a conclusion. The consumer may resign within 14 days without giving a reason. There are limited costs in early repayment - they all welcomed this - 1% of the remaining amount and half percent when the period is shorter than a year. And the last thing is that there's a ceiling on the sanctions - that's 0.1 % a day, a maximum of 50 percent of the principal up to 200 grand. And what's happening in this case is just that from this whole block, from this whole big pizza, it's going to take a tiny triangle, that's putting a 0.1% and a maximum of 50 percent of the principal. There's not even that 200,000 absolute value, because, of course, consumer credit is different from business credit. So I welcome this for myself. I think it's also a good proposal, let's say, designed in that, in fact, what would be at risk right now, and what really has something to do with the corona, that means some delays and some punishments against the CFI, so that's where this passage from the Consumer Credit Act is going to apply. Everything else is as it has been, that is, the protection applies only to consumers, not to business individuals - self-employed persons and so on. So I'm gonna ask for support. Thank you for drawing up this proposal and, if necessary, I look forward to having a debate if there are any questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u9	Thank you in the general debate to Mr Patrik Nacher. Now, Mr Jan Hrnčíř, who is already present, and his application will therefore be implemented. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u10	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry. I'm only human, I've been in the bathroom for three minutes, and I've been invited in these three minutes, so I'm sorry again. It was a human need. [[Glee in the hall.]] I would like to express the opinion of the SPD on this amendment to the Consumer Credit Act. Of course, the problem is that businesses are being abused by the way it was said by the Minister, credit predators, and the like that they are non-serious companies that simply force those people who are in a desperate situation and simply need money, and they say that consumer law doesn't give us too much power to rip you off, so get a trade license and come again. So at this point, they're just forcing them to become businessmen, businessmen, and then forcing them to do those loans that are really under conditions that really aren't moral. It is a bit of a mistake and a shame, because this problem has been here for a long time, that the law has no longer been discussed in the standard way, but it is true that in those economic problems where many people are now going to find themselves, they will simply seek help from those non-serious loan providers, which means the protection is in place at the moment and we will support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u11	I thank Mr Jan Hrnčíř for his speech. It was the last one entered into the general debate so far. I see Mr. Dominik Feri. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have had a rather long speech prepared, but I have decided not to speak to her, and I have decided to give the Minister the time we will save, because I have no other way of getting information on the abolition of the tax on the acquisition of immovable property than to lay it down. And I'd like to spend that time making us Madam Secretary -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u13	Well, I guess I can't let you do that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u14	Please, if I may, I'll get to it. You don't have to call me to the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u15	But that is in fundamental conflict with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u16	I'm still paying attention to consumer credit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u17	So please take care of the consumer credit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u18	To inform us, in addition to consumer credit, in its final speech, what the government is planning to abolish the tax on the acquisition of immovable property, in what form and when it will be sent here. Thank you very much. It's something that people ask us every day, and we can't give them a satisfactory answer. I thank the President for his patience. I believe I have not gone too far from the limits of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u19	Thank you. I'm patient alone. There's an emergency, so we have to find a way to deal with it, but it's up to the Minister if she's willing to respond in her preferred right to things that are not related to the bill that we're discussing in an emergency. The President of the Pirate Club Jakub Michálek reports with priority rights. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I am very happy for your position and procedure, and I would like to thank him, because I would like to remind you that when Mrs Richterová intersected Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, Mr Babiš did not respond at all to the topic of the interpelation and you left him to speak on a free topic. So let's just choose an attitude that's consistent and equal and fair for all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u21	I will not comment on the performance, the Rules of Procedure do not allow me to do so. I am asking who is reporting for the general debate. Chairman Kalousek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u22	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister if she would consider answering my colleague Dominik Feri after all. You know, the loud statement about abolishing property acquisition tax, of course, stopped the real estate market at that point, because everyone's waiting to see what's going to happen. And everyone expected it to be at this meeting, that the government would present it in a legislative emergency, which it did not. Okay. But now, Madam Secretary, can you state on the microphone what's going to happen? Purely for the readability and transparency of the market. I think his participants have a right to know what the government intends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u23	My colleague Kalousek spoke with priority rights. I therefore ask who else in the general debate. If no one, I am ending the general debate. I ask if there is interest in the final words - not the Minister, nor the rapporteur. In that case, I am opening the debate in detail, to which Mr Pavel Juříček is registered. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u24	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to remind you of my amendment, which is under number 4812, where it clearly shows exactly what the decisive moment is for determining the interest that can be charged to the consumer if it is delayed for more than 90 days. I hope that you will all support this amendment, as it clearly shows the decisive moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u25	Thank you. That was announced, Mr Pavel Juříček. I'm asking if my colleague Nacher is going to sign up for an amendment, or if it's okay with the documents? In the documents, okay. Well, in that case, I'm asking who else for a detailed debate. If no one, I am ending the debate in detail. I could also end the second reading of the proposal if there is no interest in the final words after a detailed debate. It's not like that. Given that we have agreed to interrupt individual items of the Minister of Finance until the third reading vote, when the general and detailed debates on the individual items are concluded, I am interrupting this item, press session 811, until the end of the 812 press. Now, before the start of item number 4, Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura reports with priority rights. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I've noted the debate here about abolishing the property acquisition tax. And I don't think we can just walk away from this debate, from this question about Secretary Schillerová. Because indeed, Minister Schillerová said that she would prepare a motion to abolish the property acquisition tax, which today is 4%. Not to mention the fact that today ODS and TOP 09 are talking about the abolition of the tax, who themselves raised the tax from 3 to 4 percent when they were in government, so the enormous hypocrisy of ODS and TOP 09 seems completely ridiculous to me when they were in government, so instead of canceling it, they even increased it, and now they're talking about cancellation, so that really doesn't deserve another comment. But I'd like to get back to that. If the secretary here says she's gonna cancel the real estate tax, I don't really understand. Because there's been a draft of the SPD pen in the House for six months. Our law here lies on the abolition of property acquisition tax. This proposal was rejected by the government and did not give a positive opinion on it when it was discussed in the government. So you guys have rejected the motion to cancel the property acquisition tax that's been sitting here from the SPD pen for six months. Now, a week ago, Madam Secretary, you said you'd propose to cancel the property acquisition tax because it's supposed to be an emergency. So the next thing I don't understand is that if you wanted to make it quick, because it's an emergency situation to relieve the citizens, you would have taken the SPD proposal that's already done, it could already be here today at this emergency meeting, and we could have already accepted it here today, and we would have basically been sitting in the Senate tomorrow, and the President would have signed it, and within a week the real estate tax would have been lifted, and we would have relieved people, because now they're going to have income slumps, those who want to get housing, we would have made it four percent cheaper, briefly and simply, and it would have been perfect. But I'm here today at the House of Deputies meeting, and despite the statement by Secretary Schillerová, we don't have any motion here to cancel the property acquisition tax. So what's it like, then? The truth is that a number of citizens write to me and ask - and that line is really big. On average to me - perhaps because I am party chairman - he writes about 300 to 400 citizens a day. They write every day. And it's not spam, it's normally citizens' questions and suggestions. Now what am I supposed to say? It seems to me that, first of all, you're politicating again in the government, and it's really an empty declaration, because the proposal here is proven to be written, and it's already been passed by the government, the proposal from the SPD pen. So he's not here. Your proposal isn't here either. And at the same time, you were talking about an emergency. So, from your point of view, it's probably not that emergency, either, to help these citizens who would like to get their housing now. So, Madam Secretary, I really, really want to ask you something, please tell me when you're proposing to submit that property acquisition tax waiver bill. Again, I'm a little upset about the politics, because the SPD proposal here is done, and we can accept it now. Okay, I understand that you don't want to, I've already understood how your government is acting, that you don't want the SPD to have points, any political positive points, so you're going to write the same law as if you were on your own to file it as if it were an YES movement, which is going to delay it very much again, and the citizens are going to pay for it financially, but I've gotten used to that over the past few years in politics, that's how these government parties always do it, no matter what the wishes of the citizen are. But please give the answer when you propose to cancel the property acquisition tax, because the citizens are really asking. Okay, even if you didn't take the SPD proposal, ours, but they only copied it and filed it again, so please, when it will be, so we know. Because it's one of the SPD's program points within our Family program in the first place. And it's a good thing you're inspired by the fact that we've already filed it, but I'm mostly interested in when it would be. Thank you, Madam Secretary, and I ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u27	Thank you. I'm asking Madam Secretary and Vice-President Alena Schillerová if he wants to answer because we're off points, but the question is here. Madam Secretary, if you want to answer before I begin point 4, I'll have your opinion given. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u28	Thank you for the floor. I'll answer you, Mr. Chairman, I'd love to. The proposal, if you've heard it in the media, as I presented it, I'm preparing it now, I just have to get to some government, because now I'm here, the government has been abolished today, because most ministers will be here, tomorrow the Senate will be, so I have it ready. But he didn't sound exactly as prepared by your movement. And I said in the media that I have a proposal prepared to abolish this tax - any other time than today. Of course, the Ministry of Finance has been working on this for a long time, thinking about the right moment, because it's still a certain blackout, and now it's a time when flats have fallen, when the market is reviving, a whole lot of people have been waiting for this time. But I also said that I was prepared to cancel the possibility of deducting mortgage interest from the tax base for new contracts, of course, for new contracts to be fair. Because there's a whole bunch of people who paid the tax, and we're not going to pay them back, of course, there's no way, but they could make contracts again and subtract from the tax base. If you do the math, I said in the media at the time, now I don't have it here, the maths, so if you save somebody, they're buying an apartment or a house for 5 million, 4 million they're taking a mortgage - and you're going to figure out how much they're gonna get to deduct the interest, how it's refunded, so they're going to get it at the end of that period, which is 20 years, the same amount that they're going to get by saving that tax, which is 4 percent, and they actually have the money immediately, cash risking, you know it well. So basically he has the money immediately, he can invest it. In addition, you have a number of young people, and we especially care that these young people may receive money from their parents and still do not deduct anything. [[11.10 hours]] So there has to be some primary justice, so I'm tying it to this, the proposal. I said cancel this tax, but cancel the deduction. We will cancel another exception and it will be primarily fair to the new treaties, which means for those who would not actually pay this tax anymore, which will also require some coalition debate. But I noticed that the coalition partner had already expressed his media opinion that he would support especially young families. So I've got it all set up. There's got to be a coalition debate. I never said I'd put it in a state of legislative emergency, but I don't expect any problem here, mostly because of the mortgages, but then we have to say there has to be some kind of primary justice. First of all, the debate has to take place in the government, and first of all, we have to meet in that government, because now we've been dealing with the most important things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u29	Thank you. We're off-limits, but I have two registered with priority rights that I'm supposed to give the floor to at any time. Vice-President Tomio Okamura and President KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u30	Madam Secretary, hello. But I didn't like your answer a little bit, and it kind of freaked me out a little bit, because you just implied the concept of government towards decent and working citizens. So I'd have known they'd... I thought the plan was to abolish the real estate tax, that's what we in the SPD plan, and at the same time leave tax relief to those working decent citizens who bought housing that is overpriced today. And you tell me here now - I really can't stare, I'm sorry that in exchange for canceling the real estate tax, which has been amoral since the beginning, because the tax state has already once taxed money, so it's absolutely a crazy thing from the start, this tax, so in exchange you actually punish those people who have a mortgage, pay it off from their legal income, go to work, often they're mortgages for life, and you actually take away this tax relief. Well, under the SPD, we see a different solution, and that's what we're putting forward here -- let's cancel the abuse of unadaptable doses. The law, as you know, is already here in the House from the SPD pen, and it's already being discussed at first reading. So our proposal is, let's regroup the money from the so-called. Inadaptable to decent and proper and, at the same time, circumscribe public finances by eliminating unnecessary expenditure from the state budget in an emergency. I'll name them for you. They're useless military shopping, they're helicopters. An example of unnecessary purchase is US helicopters worth 14 billion, when the Polish and Hungarian government proceeded to reconstruct the Russian Mi helicopters. We could have done that, too, but apparently Prime Minister Babiš in exchange for the acceptance of Donald Trump at the White House, just signed there and arranged to buy US helicopters for 14 billion we don't need at all. So let's cut off these types of purchases -- 14 billion, let's cut the failed inclusion in education -- that's 6 billion, both teachers and parents, both healthy children and disabled children. Nobody wants it. That's 6 billion. Please cut funding for political non-profit organizations. We in the SPD support nonprofit organizations that care about old people, about pensioners, about disabled people, about children, that's okay, but the political ones are the ones that promote the European Union, gender, multi-culty, it just doesn't bring anything, especially now in an emergency state. President Zeman here is talking about many billions. Next we say, let's just limit other similar expenses like solar barons. You know that there are 40 billion crowns a year. It is basically the original planned deficit for the Czech Republic. Again, they are excuses for the European Union that the European Union does not allow us to do so. Well, let's leave the European Union! Let us announce a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union! We're proposing it here, we've suggested it many times. You've always said no. So choose if we leave the money in the pockets of proper, decent people, or if we do, because it is the European Union, so here we will be sucked out by solar barons with 40 billion dollars, and everyone pays the bill every month. That means, I'm a little bit shocked by the attitude, the government strategy, that we're going to punish decent and proper people who have mortgages, you're going to take their tax benefits in exchange for abolishing the property acquisition tax. Well, that's news to me, this reflection, the government's strategy to promote housing for families and the support of working decent people, and I think I said again that we see it all over the SPD. We see this in regrouping the state budget, cutting off the unnecessary expenses I was talking about, and, on the contrary, regrouping the money to decent and proper people, and keeping the tax benefits on mortgages while at the same time abolishing the real estate acquisition tax. This is a logical reasoning that is helpful and completely logical to every decent and working person, let it be a senior, let it be an invalid, let it be a working person. Thank you and this is my commentary on this and I am really unpleasantly surprised.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u31	I am the tolerance myself and, of course, the Vice-President has the priority right, I did not want to limit it, but I will ask because we are out of the question now, and President KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka has already said that he is in order with the priority right. I ask everyone to remember yesterday's political grémia, that we will deal with those points planned. Certainly the abolition of property acquisition tax will be the subject, as the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance said, and will therefore be discussed at that point in time, and let us therefore go back to discussing those points that are included in this meeting. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u32	Thank you. Good almost noon. I will be very brief, but this subject, although outside the approved agenda, is very important. I don't think we can pretend like we're doing the solution: the wolf ate, the goat remained whole. This is the solution that the government coalition probably wants to implement here, because it says that we will increase housing support especially for young families, we will make it in the form of introducing one measure to them, but we will take the other, so it is simply not in the sum of the increase in support! Especially for those small or low-income families who will take longer-term mortgages, probably with a higher interest rate, so in the finals, this solution will be a deterioration of what is now. And I would like to point out to the coalition that on page 7 of the government's programming statement, the sentence is, "We are committed to actively supporting working families with children through tax discounts." In two and a half years, you haven't come up with any concrete measures to fill this sentence that you have here, and on the contrary, here you want to take the opportunity for these families to apply mortgage interest as their discount. It's one of the measures you're here to interfere with your statement. For KDU-ČSL I can say if we want to increase the support, so let's let this possibility apply these mortgage discounts and let's do what was said here, let's cancel the real estate transfer tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-002-003.u33	Thank you. And we're gonna keep going, and that's point number.
