ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-004-061.u1	61. Government bill amending Act No. 477/2001 Coll., on Packaging and Amendment of Certain Acts (Law on Packaging), as amended /German press 679/ - first reading The Government is once again entrusted to the Minister of the Environment. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-004-061.u2	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice-President. As the last point of these quadruplets, I dare to present a bill amending Act 477/2001 Coll., on Packaging. The aim of the bill is to ensure the transposition of the two directives of the European Union, which are part of the so-called. the package of the circulatory economy. These Directives revise the existing Waste Directive and the Packaging and Packaging Waste Directive. In addition to the changes resulting from the transposition, the proposed regulation also includes changes resulting from the evaluation of the existing application of the law in practice. In order to ensure the transposition of the requirements of the European Union Directive, the Act on Packaging proposes in particular the following amendments. Firstly, the draft law regulates the conditions for the fulfilment of the obligation to withdraw packaging or waste from packaging, including the determination of the minimum density of the collection network. The collection sites for packaging waste must be newly included in the municipal waste management system and be available to citizens within walking distance. Authorized packaging companies will be obliged to carry out so-called ecomodulation. I already talked about this ecomodulation a little while ago under the End-of-life Act, and I'm just going to give you an example of what such ecomodulation might look like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-004-061.u3	I'm just sorry, Minister. I ask the House for peace. Ladies and gentlemen, please keep your voice down so we can hear the Minister. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-004-061.u4	Thank you for your support, Mr Vice-President. I'm used to mouths in my office, but I'm always happy when someone stands up for me. Only to the ecomodulation, because there's something under that word that's hard to imagine, but the classic situation is that the most recyclable plastic, and also the most demanded plastic, is the so-called transparent pet. On the contrary, the worst recyclable plastics are the different bottles that are needed within the so-called PETdrogery, i.e. the different colored ones, of several plastics composed, of several types of plastic composite packaging, which are, on the contrary, recyclable very badly. What does that mean? According to ecomodulation, according to the ecomodulation principle, the manufacturer should then be significantly disadvantaged for placing poorly recyclable or non-recyclable plastic on the market. This is very important because, firstly, it will lead to more recycling and will very likely also lead to a reduction and reduction in the number of mainly packaging waste, mainly plastics, but not only plastics. It's what we talk about repeatedly. The world went crazy, and every time I look in those shops and I see a peeled onion that someone wraps in cellophane, the onion has a natural wrapper, or it wraps ten balls of grape wine on its own, it's really for manslaughter. And that's something that needs to be defended. It is not the fight against plastics as a whole, but it is the fight against overuse of plastics and also the fight against the fact that manufacturers are not basically responsible today for whether their product is recyclable or well recyclable. And that's what ecomodulation should do. Authorized packaging companies, as I said, will be obliged to take into account the repeated applicability of the packaging in determining the cash contributions and to favour them over packaging which is not re-usable. New, more ambitious targets for the recycling of individual materials and the overall use of packaging waste are also being set. Significant changes are also taking place in the case of so-called authorised packaging companies, where the proposal extends the obligation of authorised packaging companies to submit their management and reported data on the recovery and processing of packaging waste by statutory audits in order to ensure greater control of their financial management and transparency of the expenditure declared. In the event that more authorised packaging companies operate on the market, a method is proposed to compensate for the costs of taking back, which are the majority costs of the authorised packaging company. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would just briefly comment on the situation in which, in the context of the discussion of the Packaging Act, which really includes a number of very important points, especially the ecomodulation, a media debate has been launched in recent weeks about only one relatively small component or a piece, and that is backup. I'd like to set some myths straight here very quickly. One. The Department of the Environment doesn't forbid backup. It's not even against voluntary backup, but it just doesn't want to be ordered by everyone. Today we are in a situation where the consensus of the Union of Towns and Communities, the Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Industry is on this, again of these bodies, that they do not want mandatory backup. So the proposal that backup wouldn't be mandatory didn't come out of the Ministry of the Environment, but it just came out of the settlement of an interdepartmental commentary. Here I want to stress that we like the Norwegian model very much, where Nor have voluntary backup and tell manufacturers that manufacturers are responsible for the fate of their packaging, and they set rules that they must comply with. These rules are strict, but the Czech Republic is already implementing the rules that the European Union requires from Member States in 2025. And we're already filling them with PET bottles. Let's do it again. We are not against backup, after all, some pilot projects of some entities are underway, but we do not want to order hard backup because the backup system costs several billion, it will cost several billions, in the finals the customer would pay it, would burden smaller stores. And most importantly, I'm putting another myth to the right. A whole bunch of people think that if PET bottles are backed up, that the PET bottle will be refilled like a beer bottle. That's nonsense. That backed-up PET bottle, just like a PET bottle from the yellow container, it just takes off, grinds into flakes, or crushes into flakes, and then the flakes turn into either a new PET bottle or some other raw material. It is paradoxical that such a huge debate about PET bottles, but PET bottles are the best recyclable and best demanded plastic raw material. This means that much more we should discuss the plastics that are not so well recyclable, which burden the environment, which burden recycling and which should just be dealt with by ecomodulation. So I just wanted to set things right a little bit. I'm assuming it's gonna show up here. We, as I have declared, are clearly prepared to discuss further in the coming months the advantages, the disadvantages of backup, but again I say, this is not just the opinion of the Ministry of Environment, it is the opinion of our key partners in the area of waste management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-004-061.u5	Thank you, Minister. And I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, which is Mr František Elfmark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-004-061.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister here has covered most of what I had here in his opening speech, so just a few technical things. The proposed bill is amended by Act No. 477/2001 Coll., on Packaging, as amended. The Packaging Act lays down the rights and obligations of businessmen of natural persons and legal persons in the handling of packaging, recovery and recovery of packaging waste. Loading of packaging means the production of packaging, placing on the market or putting into circulation, as well as the use, modification and re-use of packaging. This whole material was affected by the approval of four European Union directives which entered into force in July 2018 and which are part of the so-called circular economy package. The aim of the proposed changes resulting from the practice of the circulatory economy to increase the transparency and efficiency of the operation of packaging companies. I would just like to briefly discuss what the cover is so that we can all be instructed. Packaging is an essential part of a wide range of products. Their primary mission is to keep the goods in unchanged quality until the time of consumption. From the point of view of the function they can be divided into packages of sales, used to be packages of consumer, group and transport. In terms of the frequency of their use on disposable or repeated packaging, reusable, and in terms of the material from which they are made, such as plastic, glass, paper or combined packaging. For these reasons their normal occurrence in normal life, the law proposes, in particular, the following changes. As the Minister said here, the adjustment of the conditions for the fulfilment of the recovery obligation, Section 10 including the determination of the minimum density of the collection network, the obligation to include waste collection points from packaging into the municipal waste management system set up by the municipality and the obligation to inform consumers of the possibilities for preventing the generation of waste. Determination of the obligation for the recovery and recovery of packaging waste in such a way as to avoid undue burdens on small enterprises. The obligation for companies to carry out the so-called ecomodulation and publish the ownership structure, contracts and tariffs, as well as the conditions for the verification of the company's data and the extension of the registration obligations of authorised companies. I guess that's it for me. I will then make a brief comment in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-004-061.u7	Yes, thank you. I am opening a general debate and the Elfmark Member is the first to sign up. So you can continue, you have the floor in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-004-061.u8	Thank you for the floor. I'm just gonna loosen up. The minister here has recalled some friction areas that we will be discussing in the committees. I'd just sum them up on three points, too. The Packaging Act also contains several controversial topics that resonate across society, and I will now mention them to you. Great discussions in committees will be about how to achieve the goal of sorting PET bottles and aluminium packaging, where the government proposes to ask the European Commission for an exception so that we do not have to recycle as much as the European Union countries have agreed in their directives. In doing so, backup could improve the environment, reduce waste of raw materials and also lead the Czech Republic to a cleaner nature and a circular economy. [[11.20 hours]] Furthermore, it is not clear who will pay sanctions for failing to achieve the target of sorting PET bottles if we do not implement backup and we do not achieve the targets. However, the directive lays down an obligation for the Member States of the European Union to ensure 90% of the grading rate from 2029 onwards. It must be said that no country in the world has achieved a sorting of PET bottles above 80 per cent without using the backup. I am therefore glad that the Minister has remembered that there will be a debate on this, and there will certainly be a common consensus, so that we can all be at least broadly satisfied. I'm glad he said that here. Another of the things that we will definitely debate on committees is the factor of EKO-KOM monopoly. It needs to be clarified whether we want to have a single authorized company that will deal with the whole republic's system of sorting, recycling and recovery of packaging waste, or we will open up a competitive space for healthy competition in this area and for other companies. In my opinion, some of the provisions in this law make it impossible to compete and tighten the conditions so and are more complex than EKO-KOM had when it was created. The last thing I want to remember. There is no implementation of the so-called sub-Directive on the restriction of disposable plastics into this law. So the question arises as to why The Chamber of Deputies is supposed to discuss the amendment of the packaging law again in about six months' time due to the implementation of the sub-Directive, when the Ministry has known these requirements of the directive for over six months. At the end of my speech, as with the previous three laws, I would like to propose an extension of the discussion of this House press in committee by 20 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-004-061.u9	děkovat you, Member, and it is Mr Jan zahradník who is next in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-004-061.u10	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to interpret the ODS' position on the packaging law. We encourage this law to pass into second reading. Our reservations about the law are not essential. We know that this is a problem that is really a burdening problem. In the previous debate, we have already mentioned various negative aspects of the excess packaging in our business network. But I think the time when we came to the dairy with the teapot and the bakery with the net bag is long gone. It's just that today the same people who criticize the amount of packaging, but they also prescribe hygiene regulations that force each of these goods to be placed in some special microten packaging, including the onion or including, I don't know, other vegetable products, as the Minister mentioned. Finally, the system we know from supermarkets simply requires that individual goods be placed in the microten plastic packaging, otherwise the cashier can't even count it on the belt, log it, book it. It's a big problem. What I can record is a rather significant decrease in the purchase of plastic bags when collecting goods in supermarkets, many people carry their bags with them, and thus at least a little help in solving this problem. I've already pointed out that part of the law, I think it's Annex 3, is the table that shows the obligation to recycle packaging materials. It's always a topic for debate, for criticism. In my opinion, the limits are unnecessarily high. They just don't count on the emergency situations that may happen, which, if we sort them out, of course, part of the packaging can be returned. Basically, all the glass packaging goes back into circulation like this. With the plastic ones, it's a specific problem. Paper packaging can be used in part again, but for the most part it is waste, of course, and we finally found out recently when China gave us the opportunity to supply paper waste there, that what used to be a source of small income today, a contribution of paper collection, so today, on the contrary, a fee must be paid for its removal. So there I think that 85 percent, 80 percent in five years or ten years, in my opinion, is too much. We will also, of course, consult experts on whether it would be worth proposing a reduction in this limit. Plus those PET backup bottles. I remember a few years ago, we were here discussing a rather sensitive law that tried to prevent people from burning plastic waste in their heating bodies, their stoves, or their boilers. That's what we've been talking about here, and eventually, the minister said it was for the heating control, and he says it worked. So I'm still questioning this - breach of house freedom, but it's the second thing. And one of the ideas that was said here, even in the media debate, was that charging or, therefore, backup of PET bottles could help solve this problem to some extent, that these people would rather do it, return it for backup than burn it in the boiler. I think that the functionality of this would be minimal, and I also think, and here I have to interpret the ODS opinion, that we think that the general introduction of PET backup bottles is not a good way to go. This would, of course, undermine the already well-functioning waste sorting system, and, on the one hand, it would burden small entrepreneurs with another administration. It might help in some part of the market and, above all, manufacturers, but I don't think it would be worth it. However, although I do not agree with this, I would still appreciate it if the Ministry of Environment looked into the possibilities, and there was some pilot project that you said, Minister, that it was running, or other options for how a certain segment of the market could be more efficient after the backup was introduced, so it would probably be good. So here I agree with what you said. Okay, just don't forbid it, let whoever wants to do it, so let them do it, and at the same time look for reasons why it could eventually be introduced gradually. But like I said, at this point, our party doesn't agree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-004-061.u11	Thank you. This was the last application for a general debate. Anyone else reporting from the scene? No, I am ending the general debate. There is no interest in the final words either the Minister or the rapporteur. So we will be dealing with the commandments of the motion to the committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. The proposal of the Organisational Committee is for this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest ordering this proposal to another committee as a guarantee committee? I don't see a suggestion. We will therefore vote on the environmental committee's commandments as a guarantee committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 191: 156 Members registered, for 132, against no one. The proposal was directed to the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee The Organizing Committee did not propose any other committee to address this proposal. There's a draft from the diaper. Mr. Adamec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-004-061.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, my fellow Member here tells me, so I will propose both committees: the Economic Committee and the Public Administration Committee. [[Vildumetz]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-004-061.u13	Yes, thank you. I don't see any more applications. We will therefore vote gradually on these committees. First of all, the commandment to the Economic Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 192: 156 Members signed in, for 133. The motion was accepted. [[11.30 hours]] We will now vote on the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 193: 156 Members registered, for 131, against no one. The proposal has also been approved. I note that we have ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Economic Committee and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. In the debate, a proposal was made by Mr Elfmark to extend the time limit for discussion by 20 days. We will now vote on this proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 194: 156 Members registered, for 127, against no one. We've extended the deadline. I thank the Minister, the rapporteur, and I conclude the first reading of this proposal. Apologies. Mr Lubomír Volný apologizes for today's meeting from 12 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons, Marian Bojko apologises from today's day from 13 a.m. to the end of the day for family reasons. We will not now deal with paragraphs 62 and 63, because the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová, who is excused, is not present and is not assigned to another member of the Government to present the proposal. This means that these points will be placed at the end of the first reading block. We're going to point 65. It's about
