ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u1	252. Government bill amending Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on food and tobacco products and on the amendment and addition of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 502/ - third reading I would ask that the Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Agricultural Committee, Mr Pavel Kováčik, take his place at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the 502/4, which was delivered on 5 March 2020. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House prints 502/5 and 502/6. I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Minister, would you like to speak before the debate is opened? Isn't that right? [[No.]] So the Minister is not interested in speaking before the debate is opened. I am opening the debate and with priority rights as the first President of the Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, Mr President. My speech as chairman of the agricultural committee on this press will be very brief. We have long discussed the proposal for this law, the main objective of which is the transposition of European law into this press, including the solution to a problem called double food quality. However, there was also a matter in the course of the discussion which is contained in the amendment, both by Mrs Balaštíková, Mrs Podal, and others, but also by colleagues Kováčik, that we should simply send a clear signal as the Czech Republic to Czech farmers and food professionals, and to the public that we are interested in selling Czech food in particular in the Czech Republic. However, the conclusion of our debate, and it is also the resolution of the agricultural committee, when we propose and ask the House to return this press to second reading, because we have not been able to find a complete compromise with all the participants in this chain. The debate continues. dneska afternoon we are sitting with the Minister and his colleagues, colleague Kováčik and others, with representatives of the Agrarian Chamber, Food Chamber and other participants of the entire chain to find a compromise that I do not want to specify here today, because the compromise is not yet found. Thus, the agricultural committee proposed to return this law to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u3	Thank you. Now, in order not to wrong anyone, I feel that Mr. Kováčik was a little faster than President Kalousek. Both with priority rights. [[Messenger. Kalousek prefers.]] There. President Kováčik, then President Kalousek. Both priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u4	Mrs. and gentlemen, hello. I have a double priority right - the right of the rapporteur and the right of the President of the club, and I am also older than my colleague Kalousek. So I'm sorry. But maybe to put an end to the various situations that were here a moment ago, I will introduce you to the accompanying resolution of the guarantee committee, the agricultural committee, of the 34th meeting on 15 April. Regulation No 158 of the Agricultural Committee of 15 April 2020 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on food and tobacco products and on the amendment and addition of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws, House printing 502, negotiations of the guarantee committee. Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic as a guarantee committee after discussing the draft law after second reading: I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic support the proposal to return the Government's bill amending Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on food and tobacco products and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws, House printing 502, to second reading; II. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic of this resolution; III. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. As rapporteur for the press, I am intercede for this resolution of the guarantee committee to be fulfilled, so that we can return - sorry, I am joining the proposal - to the second reading. If the proposal to return to second reading is not accepted, please vote on my proposal to withdraw Amendment E1 to E4. This is my amendment, which I promised to withdraw during the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u5	Thank you. He was ahead of himself with a point of fact, Mr Bendl. So de facto, of course, I'd prefer. [[Messenger. Bendl says he wants to speak with the club's opinion.]] In that case, after priority rights. First, President Kalousek, then Minister Toman, then Mr Bendl, with the club's opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u6	Thank you. I will be quite brief, because we will certainly have this debate for the agricultural committee, even then, on the basis of the proposal that will actually come here. Nevertheless, I would like to ask President Faltýnek to speak of such a proposal that has fallen here, which has raised so much attention in the public space, so that he does not speak of a friendly signal for all farmers. It is not true that all farmers are waiting for such a signal. For example, the Association of Private Farmers, which is a few thousand farms, mostly family, has made it clear that it does not wish for such a thing and that it will damage the family farms. Yes, I can imagine, and for them it is also done that it would be very advantageous for large industrial farming companies, but it would be extremely disadvantageous for family farms, for peasants who have expressed themselves in this regard. We may not even have to talk about the fact that this would mean an increase in prices and a deterioration in quality for Czech consumers. This is simply a logical consequence of limiting competition in any case. And that this is contrary to the principles of the single European market, perhaps we also need not talk. This means that if you, ladies and gentlemen, represent a compromise roughly in the sense that it will not be 85 per cent, but that it will be 60 per cent, so it simply is not a compromise. It's just the same unacceptable stupidity, except in another parameter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u7	Thank you. Minister Toman with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that I agree with the motion for a resolution by the Committee on Agriculture, that is, back to second reading, and I fully support this, because it is necessary to clarify the amendment and to adopt a position on which we will be able to agree. If you don't mind, a few things. I think there's a lot of stuff mixed up here. It must be said that we cannot distinguish farmers from small and large. I think we need to distinguish them from those who produce and those who do not produce raw materials for food production. That's one. [[10.30 hours]] Two. If anyone imagines a compromise that will be according to AZZ, it will not be a compromise. Three, if you don't mind. We're not having fun - and let's not keep seeing it through some holding company, anything else. Here are thousands of food producers who can't get into the chain of trade, because the chain of trade clearly prefers food from their mother countries when they can. We're having fun that there's no Czech garlic here. He can't be here if there's no sales guarantee. When someone prefers Chinese garlic - it's been like that for years. We can talk turkey meat. Some say turkey meat has gone up. Yes. It has increased since they do not behave in sufficient quantities in the Czech Republic. And I could go on like this. I would not like anyone to say: Czech equals expensive. Please, Czech equals quality. Please, Czech is equal to saving the environment, carbon footprint. Everyone's talking about carbon footprint, everyone's talking about environmental protection, but then they're happy to support imports from the other end of the world. I don't see why they bring apples from South America in the season. I see no reason to import pears. That's why we supported the fruit, the vegetables in the rural development programme. That's why we didn't do it across the board. Because we want to support those who want to change the landscape. The landscape will change by supporting fruit, vegetable, hop and potatoes. And I don't care if he asks for it small or big. I mean, on the contrary, we are now supporting more small, more small-scale projects than the big ones. I'm able to prove that by numbers. Please, let's have fun in favour of Czech agriculture, in favour of Czech food industry, and let's not - I'm sorry, I'm sorry, we're already having a bad time in that mask - foreign trade chains. All those who oppose it, I could name them, I have devoted myself to this problem for more than 20 years, so they are proponents of the chain of trade at the time. So please, let us look for solutions for the benefit of Czech agriculture and Czech farmers regardless of size. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u9	Good morning, honourable Members. I thank the Minister of Agriculture for his speech. Before we continue with the priority rights, I state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and that is between 10 and 11 o'clock for work reasons, Mrs Helena Válková apologises. Now with the club's position, i.e. with priority rights, Mr Petr Bendl, then Mr Jurečka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to say, first of all, that I am very irritated by the situation in which we are discussing this material because colleagues who do not have or do not speak with the club's position or have no prior rights cannot legitimately express themselves about the matter which is so much discussed in the Czech public, such as Czech food, and we will be voting here on the return of the material to second reading and it will not be possible for individual Members who do not have this power to speak. I consider this to be a certain effort not to give Members space, to restrict the debate on this subject, because I think the public deserves it, so that individuals can do so if they have something to say about it. Czech Food Act or Food Act - Sorry, the Food Act has been discussed relatively without conflict. We could have had different opinions on some individual paragraphs. Until the proposal to define quotas, or if you want the mandatory percentage of Czech food that has to be sold, it was basically no explosive, there was no explosive. Because on the support of Czech food and on the fact that there should be more in the market, that they should be quality, available, etc., we agree on this across the political spectrum. We can only look enviously at some countries around us - Austria or Bavaria, where it dominates in particular local and regional food production, where it is common for people to buy food that may not be written on by Austria, but they buy it from their neighbor or neighbor from a nearby village or from a more convoluted village and are able to supply their own food market for a significant part. People can live with it, and I think this is the way that we should promote, not the way of mandatory quotas on counters - that is the way that is against the customer, and even against the production of Czech food itself. As the proposal is prepared, I think that the moment we approve it, what will come will be a significant pressure on the state budget. To the fact that since we have it in the law and we have to do it in seven years - as I would almost say - we have to do what we have committed here, we just have to fill the quota of 85 percent. The Minister of Agriculture here says he doesn't want to import apples from anywhere else, no matter where. And what if he doesn't get along, Minister? You have the experience. What if there's just no crop? Are you going to come up with a change of quotas, or are you going to do something about it? I mean, it's absurd and absolute nonsense. You cannot believe that it will work, that you will order sellers to sell 85 percent of Czech food. Regardless, today I held the product in my hand: South Bohemian vegetables - a Greek salad full of olives. Well, I look forward to those Czech oranges and Czech bananas and Czech rice and other products that people here often buy and need. In my deep conviction, this is simply not the way. But you elected her consciously - because I don't suspect any of you would be so stupid that this socialist engineering that we have here in this amendment would work towards that customer. It's not intended for the customer. It is intended for those who then get the subsidy, for the subsidy they will need, for the Czech country must, for the self-sufficiency we curse ourselves here, that we will be self-sufficient in everything. We're self-sufficient in a number of basic commodities, that's okay, because we can do those. And there are commodities that we'll never be able to do here in this latitude. And if so, at high cost. And the moment you say 85 percent has to be here, who's gonna pay the costs? Who are they going to add to these food prices? I mean, the answer's pretty simple. This is not a way to promote larger production of Czech food. This is the way to support big producers, because they'll be able to increase their capacity. And because we're going to limit imports to fit in the quota, we're going to raise prices. And he's gonna pay for that customer of ours. It's just not that. This isn't the way. Just as there is no way that we will or should discuss what else is Czech and what is no longer Czech. A decree must be included in or annexed to this draft law. Why don't we have material on such a serious matter that would be the decree that describes, in fact, what exactly is the Czech food? I don't think that's interesting. And it should be part of the bill's proposal, because although it is often the practice that we here agree to the proposal, and then the ministries - and this does not only concern the Ministry of Agriculture, but also other ministries - will subsequently bring a decree that regulates the details of those laws, and we will not be able to see how many times what was invented of us. We are ready, and after all, we voted in favour of this in the agricultural committee, to return this bill to second reading, because we are ready and we are interested in supporting the production of Czech food. And in this case, we're not gonna meet on the way to do it. If we find a common solution, we are ready to support it. This proposal, which is here, is protective and leads to a price increase in food, and it goes fundamentally against the customer. He is counting on Czech citizens to pay for this, and who knows if they will ever get to the type of food we have on the Czech market today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u11	I thank Mr Bendl. With priority right now, Mr Jurečka and then Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman. I must, Minister, respect the order applied for with priority rights. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u12	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Minister, members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, there have been a lot of discussions in the media space around this proposal over the last two weeks. I saw the discussions on the one hand, rather than on the other hand, from the professional public of farmers, and then people who deal with this subject in less depth, but rather on the surface. And I'm going to tell a few specific stories and examples. I am this Monday - and on my Facebook profile you can look it up - visited four farmers in the Moravian-Silesian region. The first one was a business around 2,500 hectares, then I was on the farm Luční dvůr Petr Klečka, which has about 200 hectares, it is a farm that produces mainly potatoes and onions in the long term, then I was on the farm, which was just next door, also about 200 hectares, and then the third one was also about 120 hectares, where milk was produced. And paradoxically, all four of these farmers' representatives, and let's say they were the middle and the small, said, "We fundamentally welcome this." And now I'm going to describe the stories that this farmer, Petr Klečka, might have described to me. He said, we're standing in storage and we're watching, here's the last two trucks of onions. The whole onion was originally agreed to be taken by one unnamed string. I'm not gonna name him here. The chain told me about 14 days ago - we're not taking the last two trucks because we decided we wanted to deliver onions from Holland. - So even if the price is the same, I think it can be verified, so the onion ends up in the manure. He's gonna take the farmer to the dung. And he described a very specific story that concerns potatoes and which shows that even if the free market is uniform, in many cases it suits us, we are an export country, so I have to say that in the case of agricultural commodities and foodstuffs there are very good protectionist measures where individual Member States protect their market with different non-legislative instruments. The example of the potatoes he described was like that. He said, I have the potatoes here, but today it happens that there's overproduction in Holland, there's 1 million tons of extra potatoes, and in three weeks it starts to be harvested, and the potatoes from the old harvest just need to be sold by farmers. - So from that Dutch, the farmer sells it for about a crown of fifty, brings it here, now you'd say, so the customer will have it at a great price, the argument of cheap food, as it often sounded. It's going to change here, it's going to wrap it in the package. Unfortunately, for me, the companies that sell seed to our farmers are irrationally doing this, and their main business is selling seed, so the companies themselves are cutting their customers with this step, which I don't fully understand. But in the finals, the potatoes are on the counter for 19 crowns. The huge share of the margin doesn't go to the customer's advantage, it stays with the chain of trade. And the Czech farmer will just sell the potatoes for a crown of fifty at this point, but the customer won't make the difference. So I'm describing the specific stories to try to understand that when you say the concept of a free market without barriers, without the entry of any chain management decisions that have their headquarters in their countries, on the one hand, what they learn in economics classes looks very simple and basically should work, but in the world that is here today, and in how the links work, it doesn't work that way anymore. And when they mention it, for the last two or three weeks, the price of cauliflower. If the Czech farmer had not been forced to leave the production for various reasons in the last 25 years, and we could do cauliflower here, the offer would have been much stronger here and the price would have been lower. So the arguments that, on the one hand, are interpreted as being extremely simple, how is it that we drive it somewhere from the south of Spain, etc., that it is in favour of the customer, its lower prices, so far not always and for all commodities it works so. Of course, the proposal has its imperfections. I am aware of this, which is why I was also the Member who made a proposal on the Committee on Agriculture to return to second reading, and at that time I gave it mainly for reasons relating to the double quality of food and for changers, which still need to be tuned. But even in this matter, we need to find a better way to find the target. He said here that we simply wanted to support the Czech farmer, the Czech diverse landscape. But the design never talked about oranges, kivi, exotic fruits, what we can't produce here. This one aimed at what we can produce here, that is, it was not a restriction on demand in those commodities where we would be extremely expensive. Therefore, this could not lead to an increase in price, on the contrary. And I admit that when I shop and sometimes I see that we just have a commodity here that we can produce - beef, we're at the top of it, the Czech beef farmer is around the seventh place in the world, we have top genetic material, we drive it around the world - and when I see imported beef from South America with a huge carbon footprint, with the fact that whoever makes it there produces it with huge environmental impacts, with someone who doesn't follow social standards and others that comply with our farmers, I personally have a big problem with that. We've just ended up here in the most serious phase of the coronavirus crisis, and it's been bowing down here that we want to be more self-sufficient in medical aids. That was in a lot of discussions here, and that was a match. And I wonder: shouldn't we also think about the fact that the Czech Republic and the European Union should be more self-sufficient in what we can produce here? You can verify the example of beef and South America. So please, let's try to find better tools together when it comes back to second reading. I'm aware that we should think about this. Personally, I think for example. For example, in the field of public procurement and where food is ordered by school dining rooms, hospitals, public institutions, it should be said that there should be some share not only of domestic food, regional food, but also of organic food. There are states that have this - Slovenia etc. That's what I think is one way to get there. I think that even the question of better food labelling, because the customer has information about the origin of the main ingredient of food today only in the main types of meat. This was introduced about four years ago when a customer, when today he takes beef, poultry, pork, so he can read where the animal was born, when it was slaughtered. But when you go to buy potatoes or you go to buy some other kind of vegetable, you don't look for the information about who the particular farmer was. Yeah, there's some information about the country of origin, but maybe the story when you're packing the food can then distort significantly the information for the customer. There are companies that are taking advantage of it, let's just say it out loud. Which they do for a living by simply delivering another commodity from abroad and then impersonating as Czech. And it is very difficult to find an instrument in today's legislation to do so. And it is unfair competition against our farmers, because someone is publishing it, that it is Czech, that it is farm, domestic, and it is not from the Czech Republic at all. And if we're debating climate change in other contexts here, the effects of drought on our landscape, so if we just don't create space, because even in the area of agriculture and food industry, we're gonna give them a better chance to have some predictable certainty of demand, sales, then we're gonna have a harder landscape. And I have to be here - and not just for myself, but for most farmers - to say that I really hate it when anything that tries to promote agriculture and food industry evaluates the metrics and optics of "it's for Agrofert." I'm a farmer who's a small farmer, and I'm offended. And when I talk to other people, it insults them, too. Because then it's hard to move on, it's hard to find ways to help these people. And it needs to be realized that it has not only a dimension of landscape and climate, but if we strengthen our self-sufficiency where we can have it, where we can produce it, where it gives economic logic, it is more than 40,000 new jobs in the Czech Republic in our country, where jobs are sometimes created very hard. So let's think about it in this context and not make quick simple templates and judgments, but talk to those involved, go to those middle and small farmers. I understand that there are sometimes different views. I spoke to the representatives of the Association of Private Agriculture, but I also spoke to those who are members of them, and they were different from the debate I was at on Monday, and they had a different look. [[10.50 hours]] It's not an easy thing at all. And again, I need to say fair and square that there are chains that are trying to find their way to a local farmer and supplier. I know these guys. I also don't put all the business chain representatives in one bag and all their sales representatives. There are representatives of companies coming from the meeting, they call me and tell me: Today it was fair, correct. And there are those who call me and say, "Today was a nightmare." I quit because that's not the way to do it. I think we need to get it back to second reading, to look for tools, how to go about it. And the last thing I'm gonna do when I read the articles and the debates. Let us not be illusioned that the old Member States of the European Union do not have their protective mechanisms for encouraging domestic farmers and food farmers. It's not written in their legislation. I'm going to say some instruments specifically. If the state says, "We have a system here if you want to supply it to our chain, or that chain will create it like this, because it has its registered office there, and we want the story of the product, from the field, from the stable to the entire production, to be controlled by our national supervisory authorities. - Yes, theoretically, the condition can be fulfilled. But practically? I can't imagine a farmer coming from the Czech Republic, Slovakia and saying, "I'll pay the supervisory authority here to come here to supervise me so I can deliver." It's far more complicated than it seems at first sight and than it's ever written when they say it's just a victory for the best offers, prizes and so on. That's not how it works. We saw this also in the case of the milk crisis of 2015, how quickly the dairy products of Czech companies disappeared from the counters of some networks, because the pressure was again from the state where the chain was based to help their farmers and foodmakers. And I get it. I understand that if the company is located somewhere, it has old, long-term ties, so that a closer shirt than a coat. I understand that. But we just have to be able to take all of this into account in this debate and not condemn it with one statement and so on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u13	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka and I have here with the priority right of Minister Toman, President Fiala and colleague Kováčik. But with a point of fact, Mrs Balaštíková. I'm sure the Minister will. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u14	Hello. Colleagues and colleagues, it doesn't happen very often here, but it should happen here. If someone does something right, they should be thanked. And I'm here to thank my colleague at KDU for the speech for the farmers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u15	Thank you. Now, with priority right, Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. I must say that I am glad to have Mr Jurečka's speech, because there are many things I would have to comment on and maybe I would have been even harder. And I want to apologize to the farmers for speaking to Mr Bendl, because I don't think that's everyone's opinion. I don't think standing up for one small group is entirely fair. Again, let us stand up for all farmers, all processors of Czech, Moravian and Silesian. Just a few comments, if you don't mind. Dear Member, there was never a chance for oranges, kiwis, bananas. Maybe you could take a look at it. I'm offering you tutoring lessons again. I'm ready for that. Last time you canceled our meeting, it was about constitutional water protection, but I do believe that you will arrive today and we can discuss these matters. As far as subsidies are concerned. Dear Member, yes, you said that they use far more money in other countries, that it is promoted differently. You said it in other words. Well, I'm just getting the facts. You supported Czech, Moravian and Silesian agriculture in less than 800 million crowns. Compared to Austria, Germany, it is a negligible number with other countries. You were the one who cut the Ministry of Agriculture's budget in national subsidies. And it was your successors who, within the framework of and in the interests of Czech agriculture, small, large, medium, increased this up to the budget approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 3.8 billion. And from internal sources, it increases up to 4.4 billion to support livestock production, to promote fruit production, to promote hops, to promote product processing, and so on, and so on. Dear Mr. Bendle, it was you who fought against the law on significant market power. I heard exactly the same arguments. It will cost food, it will push out the Czech manufacturer. Mr. Bendle, it was you who fought to reduce the maturity from 90 to 30 days under this law. The law on significant market power reduced the maturity to 30 days, and so are the other items put forward. As far as quality is concerned, please, when you look at the website of the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Food on the pillows, you will clearly feel that the food from imports is of poorer quality than the domestic ones produced in terms of total quantity. Cause - come and tell where it is. It is the behavior and structure of chains that we have in the territory of the Czech Republic, where neither of them is Czech. It's given historically. I'm not saying we have to have a Czech chain at all costs, but let's have some fun. I wish one thing that the foreign chains behaved exactly the same way they did in their mother countries. That means they prefer products from the countries where they sell. That's my biggest wish. I would also like to point out why there is no decree. Because it wasn't a government proposal. Of course, at a time when it would be a government proposal, this is accompanied by a decree. I think what Mr Jurečka described here is absolutely true, and they are so-called unfair commercial practices, that is, it is up to the Office of Competition to investigate this situation. Double quality is also an integral part of this law. Mr. Bendle, you were against it, too. But we are those who want to ensure quality food without distinction for Czech citizens, we do not want Czech citizens to be second-class citizens. So please, let's meet, let's find a compromise, but let's not attack Czech farmers and foodmakers, that what they make is expensive, that they can't do it and that it would be best that they sell it only from court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u17	Thank you, Minister of Agriculture. I note that, before my colleague Fiala, there is a factual remark from Mr Petr Bendl. Member Jarošová and colleague Holomčík are duly registered after priority rights. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u18	Thank you. A good way, Minister, to divert attention from the proposal, to start shooting at Bendl. I must say that, for example, we have introduced the Food on the Dungeons project and its presentation to the public, so that they know what quality our inspectors have discovered, how they deal with it, how they affect the suppliers concerned. And the aim and task of the food inspection is to just take all the bad quality off the market. So please, let's not mix this up. That foreign and domestic low quality products will appear, I think is a fact that we don't have to discuss, and we don't have to make it a science here and look for a problem where it isn't. Double quality. I said it here at the beginning, we don't listen to each other. I was saying that the bill that was submitted, that there was basically no dynamite or explosive, that we were able to find consensus over a number of things that the law is quite extensive and it's not important that we were able to find them. Until you put your thumb on the fact that 85 percent of Czech food will be required to be sold here, which is falsely presented to people as something super positive. But it turns against them in the finals, that's just a fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, President of Radim Fiala. The rapporteur will be ready. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u20	Thank you for the floor. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to also contribute a little bit here to this law, because I think that agricultural policy is very important not only in terms of economic, social, agricultural, but of all other things, and it concerns many people in the Czech Republic. I am pleased that this debate has begun in the Chamber of Deputies and that we may not be able to get to the very end of this, as this law puts forward, but sometimes we have to start. Because the coronavirus crisis has shown us what a problem this is. What a problem this is in food self-sufficiency, where it is always, constantly, and perhaps the Minister will confirm that in some commodities, food self-sufficiency simply keeps falling and we are increasingly dependent on other countries. And that's actually just the coronavirus crisis that lasts a few months, and you see our prices starting to rise because the food just isn't. Imagine if the food factories in the Czech Republic stopped, different in Europe, I don't know where we're going. Just remember the case where Germany stopped the drapes at the border so that they could not reach the Czech Republic because the Němec themselves needed them. For example, we can expect the same situation in food. [[11.00 hours]] So speaking of food self-sufficiency as well as other self-sufficiency, I would even say about food security, as well as drug safety, so that we don't have to stand in line somewhere in China or India for the paralene, I think it's very important today. And this recent fact justifies the bill that we are discussing here today. Let me get back to a few more things. Double food quality. It was a big deal, and today the big deal is over. The European Union and the countries of the European Union, especially the big ones, are doing that there is no subject. And I'm saying that we're still eating food at a far lower level here, health, agricultural, any other than that sold in Western Europe. There's got to be something to do with it. I already told you. I met this guy who lives in Switzerland, and I asked him if he'd like a Coke with me. And he said no, because they have sugar and we have corn syrup, they don't. So even those people in Western Europe realize that there is a difference in food. And that's why I think we should do something about it. Czech food is of much better quality. Maybe the right might argue that they're going to be a little bit more expensive, but I don't think that's gonna happen at the end of the day. Certainly, if we control them, they will be much healthier and much better for Czech citizens. I'll just show you two tables here. [[He's pointing to the table.]] The first is the consumption of pesticides in kilograms of active substance. The red line is Czech. We are in the consumption of pesticides in agriculture at a far lower level than those of Western countries. Why? Well, because they don't eat it, they export it, so they can put it there. Likewise, the consumption of fertilizers in kilograms, where we are simply at a far lower level than Western countries. Because they don't eat it and they don't sell it there, but they bring it to us. We are simply a third country as consumers for these partners. Let me go back to the Czech farmers and the Czech countryside. I ask, Minister - and this is nothing personal to you, I would ask every government that has been here and which will be here - what concept you have for the Czech countryside. There used to be agricultural, animal production here. It almost disappeared because the European Union's common agricultural policy only grants subsidies to some countries - milk, pork, beef and the like. We import chicken from Poland. When the veterinary administration of salmonella discovers there, the European Union will tell us: why do you control it, how dare you? But we just don't have enough of our meat here, enough of our animal commodities so we don't have to import it. So what is the concept for the Czech countryside, when people who do not have a job - there is only one tractor who sows rape, then harvests it, sows corn, then harvests it and takes it to biogas. So agriculture has something to do with rural employment. People sell houses in the country and move to big cities. So there's gonna be a big Brno, big Prague, but nobody lives in that country. So what's the concept? Who's gonna live there? How do we ensure that these people live in the space of the whole Czech Republic to make a living there? I'm from Hané, Prostějov, and there were several sugar factories on Hané. Europe's subsidies came to turn these sugar factories into brownfield. So today it's like clicking in a photo shop and they're gone. In France, they received European subsidies to build new sugar factories. I just found - that's out of the question - some book of poetry from 1908, where they wrote "wide lines of diabetes on Hané." That's no longer the case. Or it has been in force for 200 years, but now it doesn't apply for the common agricultural policies anymore, and it's probably never gonna happen again. We exported sugar production - we had it exported - to France and, of course, employment in the countryside. And that's what all this has to do with it. So I'm right to ask you what you're gonna do to keep those people in the country busy. And I think they might have a job, that they can produce Czech food. And that has to do with both animal and plant production. So let me say for the SPD movement that we support this law. We support this debate, this debate, and we will always support it. Although it may be possible to park it at second reading and the law will not continue to be discussed, we will initiate it again and again and again, because we have very serious agricultural, social, economic reasons for doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u21	Thank you to President Radim Fial. Colleague Kováčik will wait a little longer because I have two factual points. A colleague of Jiří Bláha and a colleague of Černohorský. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd just like to fill in the speakers. I think all things will be said here. And I understand everyone. I also understand what Mr Bendl is talking about through Mr President. I would follow up on a colleague of the previous speaker who said the great open homelands. That was a poem we learned when we were kids. Great wide native ropes, as you are beautiful on all sides of that. That's what we all learned, or at least our seniors. And I would add one crucial thing. Our villages have become dormitories. Yes, villagers work in cities because there's no work in the village. And that's the basic thing they understand from us to the west, that they're keeping the job in the villages. What can they keep it with? Only by using the soil to make use of animal production and all the things that come together. And so the store can work there, so the barber can work there, maybe even the doctor, the culture house can work there, the pub can work there. Those who aren't working today because the moment I leave for work in the morning and come back after 5:00 in the evening, I'm not gonna use any of the services that used to work in the village. No more kindergartens, no more schools, because, of course, I'm gonna load up the kids and drive them into town. So, first thing, let's focus on these people, get them ready to work in the villages, get housing, and, of course, let's focus on making sure there's work for the people in those villages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before I give the floor to my colleague Cernohorska, I apologise to Mrs Helena Langšádlová from 12 to 13 hours for work reasons. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u24	Thank you for the floor. I only wanted to correct President Fiala through you, Mr President, who said the Němec confiscated some drapes for us. That's a long time ago. They didn't confiscate them, they just stopped the badly-fouled truck, which after they fixed the papers, they let go. The only person who so far confiscated medical material heading to the Czech Republic was Hungary, and it was drapes that aimed for the Moravian-Silesian region. But there wasn't a single case that the Němec confiscated a truck with masks or any medical material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u25	Thank you for keeping time. Another factual point by Mr Radek Koten and then with the priority right of the rapporteur. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond here to my previous speakers regarding food self-sufficiency. It can be said that earlier, more people in agriculture had worked in the villages. Now these jobs are partly filled by foreign workers, usually from Ukraine. And now this crisis has revealed the state of absence of workers in agriculture. Before 1989, around 30 percent of Czech or Czechoslovak citizens worked in agriculture. Now, if you look at the data from the Czech Statistical Office, you will find that around 3.5-4 percent of Czech citizens work in agriculture. It is a relatively significant decline, and it also corresponds to the fact that we grow far less beef and far less pork. Then we don't have any natural fertilizers, and that's how we use the artificial fertilizers. Unfortunately, as a result, the soil is exhausted, without worms, is basically dead, and, unfortunately, no water flows into such soil, or only a minimum amount. So this law also has this overlap. That is, if we use the agricultural land as it was used before, we'll have more animal production here, so we'll be able to give the landscape back its original retention capacity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u27	Thank you for keeping time. [[Noise in the hall.]] The rapporteur is full of patience. Another factual point by Mr Marian Jurečka, but before I give him my word, I must reassure the House and ask my colleagues to discuss it in the foyer. Those who are given the floor are discussing in the O.R. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u28	Thank you. I'm just gonna pick up on a colleague, 'cause when the public's watching it, we're not farmers for complete idiots. So I just want to say, of course, one thing that's grown is plants. They act like animals, but I understand that's wrong. But please nicely, in beef, in the production of live animals, beef, we are a fully self-sufficient country. We're an export country. In sugar production - we produce the most sugar in the history of Czechoslovakia. Even if we only have seven sugar factories, their capacity and efficiency have grown enormously. We are fully self-sufficient in cereals, in oil seeds, we are the largest exporter in the world when it comes to poppy, about the food poppy. That's where we compete with Afghanistan. We're a power in cumin production, malting barley, hops, beer, and I can mow down a lot of other commodities where we're good. So please, nicely, I'm just saying this so that the debate doesn't look like we're completely destroyed by Czech agriculture here, that we can't do anything. There's really a lot of disciplines where we're at the top, but, of course, in those sectors like fruit, vegetables, that's where we've been sinking over the past 25 years. While we can produce it, we have excellent conditions for some species, but there are other obstacles for which this has not been completely successful. So just so much for a certain correction of the image of Czech agriculture. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Another point in fact - Mr Válek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u30	I'm just very brief. If we don't want to confuse the farmers like we're the experts, we can not only produce the fruit and vegetables, but also grow them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u31	Thank you. [[Noise in the hall.]] I have here the cancellation of Mr Marek Novák's apology, and Mr Pavel Kováčik, as rapporteur, now has a speech with priority rights. Mrs. Jarošová will be ready. I will not give you a word yet, Mr rapporteur, and I will ask the House again for peace. Just a little longer... Colleagues and colleagues, I know some people would like to discuss the third reading. There is a proposal to return to second reading, so the discussion continues on this bill, but I wish that the discussion should be structured. If you're discussing another subject, it's in the foyer. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ma'am and gentlemen, this time I'm in a double role. Now as rapporteur and shortly thereafter as shadow minister of agriculture as KSČM, because I consider it necessary for the vote of the KSČM to be heard here, when the voices of other political parties were already sounded. I assure you, I don't want to delay this discussion. After all, the first thing that I made the proposal to return to second reading was that I said, "Let's go back to the second reading, and now let's get away from that thing, because it's just not. I would like to respond to the fact that my helpful step to return to a reasonable discussion, objective, rational, was that I was calling on the Committee on Agriculture to withdraw my amendment in order to create a field for a new debate. I expected it to be difficult, and it turns out that it is difficult. I leave aside all directions where the wind is blowing or where I think the wind is blowing. It is already manifesting itself, and in time it will also manifest itself, even in the discussion it is manifesting itself. But I should have one reaction to the debate, through the President to Mr Bendl, who said here that this is a diversion, that it is simply appropriate to divert attention, a shooting at Bendl. I have to have a little bonmot here. It was from the Minister's side of the fire reciprocated, because the shooting began with a colleague named Bendl. All in quotes, of course. I don't want to develop this debate anymore. Now let me remind you very briefly what is notoriously known to everyone, because it has also been going on for a long time, notoriously, as the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, at least the last twenty-four years that I have been in the Chamber of Deputies dealing with the subject of agriculture, but before that, when I was in the primary production or manufacturing industry directly in agriculture for many years. I would like to say repeatedly that we have supported Czech, Moravian and Silesian farmers and manufacturing industry in the long term, for the first time in 1997, when we proposed a mandatory share of Czech food in chains or shops. It didn't go through one single voice at the time, and it was 80 percent. Back then, Czech, Moravian and Silesian agriculture still had the capacity to fill the 80 percent cool. The scum came, he was, but the most dramatic came after. And today we have a problem. Restoring animal production quickly is not only linked to a long generation interval of cattle or perhaps a little shorter pigs, but also to the fact that there are certain moods in society and the regula. There is a process called the EIA that will not allow it to be built quickly, or it will make it impossible to build new stables for animal production somewhere, and all of this must be taken into account. It's just a detour. We support, and we have been ridiculed for a long time, we are no longer, and now other food self-sufficiency in the Czech Republic has joined. And it's not about what one of the previous speakers said, and what if he doesn't get along? So are we gonna be without the pears or the potatoes? Well, of course we're not, that we're standing firm on the ground and that we can deal with crop failure, because it's one of the reasons to allow bigger imports. In the long run, we refuse to divide farmers, whether longitudinally or across, into small, medium, private, non-private, equity, and I don't know what kind of things. Czech, Moravian and Silesian farmer is one species in quotation marks. The kind of endangered that deserves above-standard support, at least at the level that farmers in other countries have in the European area, because otherwise we would cry and otherwise we could only remember that Czech wheat was grown here and Czech pigs behaved for the Czech, Moravian and Silesian tables. It is in this context that we are pushing for reconstruction - i.e. gradual, at the same time it will not really work, the gap is too deep - the equilibrium structure of agriculture in all its functions. That's what the question was also asked here - what is it, do we have a concept? Yes, it is, here's the concept. Supporting the development of the equilibrium structure of agriculture in all its functions. Support for domestic production, support for steady-state crop and livestock production. Among other things, this has also been mentioned many times, if we return cattle or in general polygasters to the system of Czech, Moravian and Silesian agriculture, we will also return hummus to the soil as one of the decisive components of the ability to hold water. So the support of water retention in the landscape really also lies in changing the economy in this way. Forage, multi-annual fodder on arable land, everything holds water better than corn or rape, which farmers are forced to grow, because we have no one to consume it, we have no way to sell it, so we cannot grow it. [[11.20 hours]] It's a landscape function. I just want to remind you that what has been happening here by the Ministry of Agriculture in recent years has already started under Minister Jurečka, this is the support of sensitive commodities, the return of greenery, fruit production, potato growing, integrated production, which we have been trying to do for a very long time. This is the return of the varied character to the Czech landscape, including an increase in its capacity for water retention. Jobs. Forty thousand jobs were here. I think it's even more. And I also think that it is possible for the Czech workforce in the countryside to return with appropriate appreciation and appropriate motivation. And by supporting agriculture, we support rural development so that the Czech workforce can also return to the workplaces over agriculture. We completely reject the games played by some huge multinational companies with double food quality, as if the Czech consumer had a different, worse stomach, worse demands, worse raw materials - but at the same or higher price in the same product. We completely reject that and we have, I think, a clear position that we are applying. After all, we call on consumers to prioritize quality Czech, Moravian and Silesian food and food products, because that is above all laws. If we are in the same situation as the one mentioned in Bavaria or Austria, where not only from the court is purchased from a neighbor, but also in chains, in the same chains as they work here, but there they will not dare to offer, even if it is a few kilometers from the Czech border, Czech food, Czech yogurt, because they simply do not sell them. It is of course the interest of a citizen of Bavaria or Austria to buy goods produced in Bavaria or Austria, not goods imported. And the food self-sufficiency, the rate in these countries, or perhaps in France, is much higher than in our country. And who we were there, we were definitely all there, we didn't notice that there would be a worse offer or even a higher price due to the preference of domestic production there. Well, if it goes in there, it's got to work with us. This law, which we are debating, and we are trying to make it truly capable of active life, not simply a declaration that could not be enforced and that no one would like, this law is in line with our direction and our concept of rural and agricultural development. Therefore, we will continue to support him with your permission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u33	I thank the rapporteur for the speech and we continue with Mrs Jarošová's speech, my colleague Holomčík will prepare himself. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, discussing the Czech Republic's food self-sufficiency for a long time sounded like a topic that does not need to be dealt with too much. As long as we could buy food from all over the world and supplies flowed smoothly, things didn't seem so important to deal with. At least that's what it would look like. But it was a mistake. However, as soon as a major crisis begins, which has just happened in relation to coronavirus, such supply from abroad is vulnerable. When foreigners start holding food trucks at the border, it will be too late to discuss whether we produce enough of our own product range in the Czech Republic, why we prefer not to grow our own food and employ our people, and thus solve the problem of double quality, regardless of the fact that each commodity that falls out of our market will immediately increase its price by importing. Those who are fighting the carbon footprint today, then they're buying apples from Holland. And that's hypocrisy, let them buy our apples. And it's not just apples. We need to support our market as much as possible, support our food. Just start working on being self-sufficient. And I think it's high time. Consider it a contribution to the future, a gift to future generations. Our SPD movement is a co-submitor of an important amendment - I have already talked about it last time, I will just repeat it - and that is the introduction of an obligation to sell Czech food on our market. Their share is set at 55 per cent in 2021, with the percentage increasing by 5 per cent in each subsequent year until 2027. Only by this will we support our products, our Czech market and food self-sufficiency. This is an important journey, because in shops, especially in large supermarkets, of course, goods are mainly sold, which is ordered by supermarket management. Unfortunately, large supermarkets often pushed out smaller, domestic shops that, in turn, collaborated with Czech producers, which have largely damaged this market. At the same time, the Czech producer with its quality goods is often disadvantaged, pushed to too low a price and to make possible sales failure pay for it, and we do not want to tolerate that further. I ask, what is the advantage for the Czech consumer to eat vegetables of low taste, for example, from Belgium, grown in a greenhouse, even incarcerated across half of Europe? Take the fact that even transport is destroying our environment, making the air worse, and destroying overloaded highways, and then we have to fix those out of our money. Other countries in the European Union, especially those west of us, are watching their market more closely. That's why I want us to watch ours all the more. And for us, for the SPD movement, I want to say that we are opposed to returning this law to second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u35	Thank you, Mrs Jarošová, now Mr Holomčík, Mrs Jana Krutáková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I confess - sorry, ladies and gentlemen - I confess that I am a little surprised here from the debate, because I thought we were going to propose a return to second reading and return the discussion here to the committee. However, there were a few things that I would like to respond to. And the main thing - I just don't like the false dilemma that is being pushed forward that whoever is here against the proposal for a mandatory share of Czech products or Czech food in shops is an enemy of Czech farmers and a fan of foreign chains. I think the pirát can be suspected of anything or many things, but certainly not of being fans of foreign chains. What bothers us about this is that, instead of looking at the problems that farmers have, we're just gonna rush in with some kind of regulation where we're gonna order this thing hard and we're gonna pretend like we're gonna solve problems. And I would like to be able to help our farmers produce cheaper so they can be more competitive, so the basic thing that should be addressed, which we should be debating, is to ask ourselves if all these requirements, such as different records, filling out tables and all those checks, if this is really necessary, if this is not something that slows our farmers down from the work that takes away their time, takes energy and, of course, in a number of cases costs money. I'd start with that. We want to help farmers, so let's just let them do their job. I understand some things, some things need to be controlled, some things the European Union wants us to do, all of which I understand, but I am convinced that much of what we want from these farmers is total nonsense. Another thing that has to do with it. It and the controls, although they cannot be calculated, we tried to find out, and the cost of the control activity is not fully recorded, but let's imagine that we will limit checks on farmers and instead offer them advice on a number of things, whether it is in relation to the landscape, to the environment, but also new technologies, new technological processes in how to make the production more efficient. He should be like this in the 21st century, not always sending checks and checking the same paperwork several times a year. It doesn't make any sense. [[11.30 hours]] Another thing I wanted to mention is that there is some missing - and he has indicated it here in the debate - just overall a conceptual approach to rural development and, in fact, to encourage us as citizens of this country to be strong consumers, so that we can actually pay extra for the food. Now, I'm going to turn a little bit, because this is a topic for a wider discussion, but here we, especially my colleague Ferjenčík, have proposed several times a matter which is a reduction in the taxation of work so that the Czech consumer can pay less money to the state and invest more money in the purchase of food. So I think there are a number of topics if we want to help Czech farmers. I certainly don't think there's a way to come in here, put a design like this, and not one of them is very well written, and pretend it solves anything. I certainly support, like the rest of the pirate club, returning to second reading. We're going to want to talk about other things like Czech food, because now it's a topic. So let's ask if the Czech food marking also makes sense. I've worked a significant part of my life in marketing, and it's just one of the things that makes this brand a success, is that the consumer comes in, sees the brand and understands what it means for the first good. Now, if you look at what Czech food is, it's a food that either meets some criteria or meets some other criteria, or it's on a new list. Like it just doesn't make sense. So I would certainly like to take advantage of the fact that we are going to return, because I perceive that there is a consensus in the House, that we will return the press to second reading, and I would like to discuss the subject as well. And that's about all I wanted to respond to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u37	I thank Mr Holomčík. Now, Mrs Krutáková. Mrs Balaštíková will be ready with a proper application for the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, let me introduce you to the opinion of the Mayor's and Independent Club. The proposed amendment to the Food Act has two problematic points in our view: firstly, it is a question of double food quality and then amendments concerning the percentage representation of Czech food in our shops. We believe that we need to reopen the debate on these issues, deal with farmers, sellers and also take into account the climatic conditions and possibilities of Czech farmers in the debate. We therefore want the debate to be reopened and we will vote in favour of returning this proposal to second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u39	Thank you, Mrs Jana Krutáková. Now, Mrs Margita Balaštíková. Mr. Válek will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u40	So once again, colleagues, colleagues, I may be marked by not getting off on everything, but I'm only trying to do what I really understand, and I'm trying to do the job well and consistently. And I have also consistently done that I have addressed all the professional unions, whether they agree to this amendment, and I wanted their members, not only the presidents of the Union, to sign for me by name. Here are the signatures. [[He's showing a stack of papers.]] It wasn't Mr. Podal's idea and some Balaštíková. It was a challenge for professional associations representing farmers, sometimes even food professionals, to open this platform of discussion about Czech agriculture and food industry. How else do you do it? That's how I think we did it. And I am glad that there is also a vote on the Internet, how many citizens of the Czech Republic would like more Czech food. I got caught up in that number, too, how much is it? And the coronavirus situation, of course, contributed to that, because we all realized that health, food, water, and air are really the most important thing for us. Those are the most important things we need in our lives. The rest is usually pointless.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u41	Thank you, Mrs Balaštíková. My colleague Válek will wait because I am - I apologize to my colleague David Pražák, who was signed up for a factual remark and I did not see it. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u42	Good almost noon. I'll be very short. I would only respond to my colleague Holomčík through Mr President. You are right that controls and records are mostly problematic and sometimes duplicated for us farmers. We've dealt with it x-times with the Department of Agriculture. Some things have changed. On the other hand, it must be said that without the checks and records, we could not be on top of food safety at the moment. And I think that's what we should be after. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Vlastimil Válek in a proper application. A colleague of Mr. Skopeček will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u44	Thank you, Mr President. That was fast. He's already stepped up from every side of the farm committee. That's all I have to do. So I would like to start by saying one thing: unlike all my previous speakers who said that, I will calm all the Czech farmers, I have never been, I am never, and I will never be the shadow Minister of Agriculture for TOP 09, I could never do that to Czech farmers. So much for an introduction. I hope I've calmed the farmers down a lot. And now I'd like to go back to what was here in the previous performances and what I'd like to say. I completely agree, through Mr President, with Mr Holomčík, that the debate on the Committee on Agriculture should be intense, to go back there. And I guess that's what we agreed on here. However, from my point of view - and again, I am not an expert on agriculture, I am not a farmer, so of course it limits me, I am aware of that. All the more and more carefully I'm trying to study it all. The law and the legislation have three things that only partially relate to each other. The first thing is the double quality of food. The second thing is generally support for Czech food, no matter who you want, what you want. And the third thing is the share of Czech food on the market. The double quality of food is - if I mean it negatively in terms of poor food, quality food and consumers feel like they are buying quality food, and yet it is being subjected to poor quality food - certainly bad and we should not allow this, because from my point of view it is a fraud, a fraud on the customer. The customer buys something, he's convinced he's buying something good. I don't know, he's buying 98-octane gasoline, but he doesn't really have gas 95. I've been to the gowns and the respirators when I thought I had threesomes, I've had one. It was also a scam on the customer. And we should not do the same to citizens in the case of agriculture. On the other hand, double quality has its logic. Just the perception of burning on the Scoville scale is completely different from Indian in the Czech population, and therefore we cannot expect that the same food, which has some degree of SHU in India, will have the same degree in the Czech population. That would be unsellable, even if it's called the same. This means double quality can also be given by some objective things. So I wouldn't want us to talk about the term without defining clearly the content of the term and what we don't want. And what we don't want Milka to be a different Milka in Austria, the Czech Republic and the United States. That if a customer buys something, so that something is the same, if possible, throughout Europe. I understand that. And here I think the law should come close to this. On the other hand, it is necessary to debate very intensively who is responsible for controlling the customer's ability to obtain the quality he believes he is receiving, the composition of the food, whether it is the manufacturer, whether it is the supplier or whether it is the seller. And here I have, and I have repeatedly mentioned it, some reservations about the law. I think the debate will reopen on the agricultural committee. Many of my reservations have been refuted in various expert discussions. I let myself be convinced. On the other hand, I agree completely with what has been said here through Mr President from one of the many previous agriculture ministers who are here, that the key is - and now I do not know if it was anyone else, so I am sorry to whoever it was, because I do not really remember who it was - that it is essential that the implementing decree should also be part of this law. She went with the law. Let us remember what we said to the Minister of Health last week, when we were to discuss in an accelerated procedure a compensation law. We told him we wanted a decree to do it. We've been training the Minister here that it's even a government order, that when the law goes, there's a decree to do it. In this case, when the decree is more important or very important, and it will say how it will be in real life, I think it also applies. It's not aggressive, it's negative, it's practical. [[11.40 hours]] I would like to remind myself of the veterinary, I believe, law, where optional certificates were given, and the optional certificates were then to be in the decree. I have repeatedly declared my trust in the Minister's word of honour, yet I wanted to see the decree. And I really don't know at this point if there's a decree that says that vet tests aren't mandatory. I'm not sure, maybe it did, maybe it didn't work out, but it's always better that the decree is important enough for the law to follow. Plus, if it's really in that government. So much for double food quality. Then I would mention the percentage of food. So, of course, each of us probably supports in this room because we are only Čech, I am also a bit Moravák, so we support what is ours, Czech, quality, good. I am not quite sure that everything Czech is of good quality, whether everything Czech is good, but surely we would be stupid not to support our fellow citizens in their efforts, whether it is food growing or animal behavior. Am I saying that right? jo. And also in the production of products that are produced from these raw materials grown or bred in the Czech Republic. And here, from my point of view, there was the fundamental reason why I did not support the amendment, the percentage. I lacked a clear, precise, strict definition of what Czech food is. It's been said repeatedly around here. But this can be the food made by Čech, it can be a food made from Czech raw materials, it can be a food made in the Czech Republic, I hope also in Moravia that it is also Czech food, and even Silesia counts in it, I suppose. But it could also be a food that has a certain percentage of this, e.g. more than 50 percent, there are many possibilities. I mentioned here, I would say, world famous and now I dare say Brno chocolate, which is definitely Czech food, which wins international competitions. Unfortunately, because we live where we live, and the Czech Republic is where it is, it cannot be made from Czech cocoa beans. I was reminded of a Znojmo winery, which I appreciate, which is run by my friend, a top winemaker who has vineyards in France, not only in France, but he has, precisely according to his instructions, where he grows the grapes, and in them he produces wine of excellent quality near Znojmo. However, the raw material that makes them is from France. Is it Czech food, then? Is it Czech wine? Is that Moravian wine? Not from the point of view of the law. But the product is produced and completely from collection to bottle treated purely by Czech citizens and taxes remain the Czech Republic. That means, I guess this debate here has to be detailed, it's a professional debate, I'm sure there'll be different opinions and opinions. What I would like to do last, and where I dare to be perceived as an expert by myself, was also said here. And now I'm almost certain that it was one of the previous agriculture ministers who said that we should not forget about schools, hospitals that buy food, they have to follow the food basket, and that we should promote quality - and I would dare to underline it - encourage them to have the opportunity to take local products. I mean, if the school buys potatoes, so she can buy them from the Highlands so she can buy milk from a local producer, same hospital. And we should support it, and here I would be very proud of the strong support, the food that is, for example. gluten-free, e.g. are for diabetics and other fellow citizens who are not few and who need foods that do not have a certain ingredient, where the food is part of their treatment. And that's where I think it's the third part of this whole package. I therefore believe that this is not just a matter of how to help farmers. They are also declining because of the fact that the harvesters appeared, even though I know that the harvesters don't call them, the machines, I'm sorry, and the tractors, and what I used to throw at the ruin of the spade, so today someone comes and has it very fast. Maybe that's why the percentage is dropping. I would rather wonder which food we are not self-sufficient in, which food or food products are the ones we should support. Since it has been said repeatedly here that this concerns, above all, the cultivation of fruit and vegetables, I understand that. It should be said that we are not interested in quantity, but we are also interested in quality, that we want to allow quality food to be available. And I would reiterate and underline it as a doctor that it would be a shame not to use this legislation to not support gluten-free foods, diabetes foods, allergy foods and others who need special foods, and these foods are either difficult to access, or very expensive, or are not at all in Czech production. So I think we have a unique opportunity to prepare this law to help not only Czech farmers, but above all to help Czech citizens and consumers of these products of Czech farmers. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u45	I thank Mr Vlastimil Válek. He raised two factual points. First by Zdeněk Podal, second by Pavel Kováčik. A colleague of the Skopeček will be able to wait. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u46	Hello, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I stand before you to admit that I am the one we are dealing with today. I'm the one who came up with this proposal, and I don't regret it. I thank the Minister, who really wants to help farmers. I myself had many times the opportunity to hear what our farmers would need, what would help them. You know, I like to fish, and when I saw carp on our counters, how much is half a carp, 200 crowns - who can afford it? Fish from abroad, sea fish come out cheaper than our carp. And I'm just giving this as an example of the fact that the foods that are said to be expensive today - well, they wouldn't be expensive! Buy-in prices go down while the chains bid on it. Chains make the prices that are disproportionate today, and our people aren't up to it. So I would like to say, I do not regret that I actually met this amendment when I say it nicely in Czech, I do. I thank my fellow Member, through Mr President, Balaštíková, for supporting me in this. I know it's not easy for her today. We'll be behind it. The SPD is behind this, even though we realize that - yes, any law or amendment can be done better, these segments can be modified differently. But I say, who gives fast, twice gives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Pavel Kováčik's factual comment. And a colleague of the Skopeček is ready. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u48	Thank you for the floor. See, that's what I wanted to suggest that this discussion should be conducted primarily on the committee. We've got a lot of experts here, that's positive again. Many agricultural and food experts show up. It was still very little, so it's positive again. I'm begging you, just a quick reaction. Decree - let us remember that this proposal is a proposal to the MPs, so until it is approved, the Ministry does not have any pouvoir preparing or making a decree. The moment the proposal is approved, the Ministry is ready to make the decree. Winemaker, the best wine when made from imported grapes or juice, so according to the wine law, whose novel I believe we approved here last year, it cannot be as Moravian or Czech wine, because it concerns wine produced from grapes grown in the Czech Republic. And as regards food for special groups, whether it was for Professor Válek, school, hospital, special consumer groups, diabetes etc., that is one of the reasons why we want to do this debate again, because we want to include these issues in the new proposal. Everything else. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, then, Mr Skopeček's speech, which is the last one in the debate so far. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u50	Thank you. I'll be very short. If I could fit into a factual note, I wouldn't take advantage of it, and I waited until the standard performance. I also like Czech food, and I try to give it priority in my purchases, and I can say responsibly that we produce quality food that is worth buying. But I would never dare order traders to offer food. They do business at their own risk, so they should have a chance and freedom of choice to decide what they will offer in their shops, just as I do not want to order our customers and consumers what they should buy, albeit by example, and I will recommend that they do better to buy Czech food because it is good, they will support Czech farmers and employment in the Czech Republic. However, I understand that the common agricultural European policy is full of regulations, subsidies, that it is simply socialism. It is a European common socialist agricultural policy. With a human face, Mr. Kováčik adds. However, I do not think that it is good to respond to socialism in the Czech Republic by even greater socialism, that it is good to respond to EU regulation by even more regulation in the Czech Republic and to regulate until death. I really see this proposal above 85 percent of Czech food in stores as a return to socialism. And when there was criticism of these unfair market conditions, let the petitioners touch the amendment, how many times they fought here to change the EU's common agricultural policy, to include less subsidies and more market elements, who are fighting here to avoid growing industrial crops such as rape or maize on energy in the Czech fields, and instead our farmers could produce crops that will be used for food. None of you who make this proposal here fights for this, because you don't just like subsidies and socialism in agriculture, so you want to add that socialism to that agricultural proposal. And the proposal, of course, is directed against the customers. If the traders have a smaller choice in what they offer, it will lead to a single one - a smaller choice for the customer and higher prices. So today, who - whether on the committee or at any other time - will be voting on it - who will be in favour of this proposal tells consumers that they will have a chance to choose from a less varied offer in stores and that they will pay a higher price. If you want to return to socialism with these steps, support this proposal!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u51	Thank you. Mr Radim Fiala's speech. Please. A colleague of Feranec with a factual remark, but only then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u52	I agree with my colleague Skopeček here only with the first part that it is a common agricultural socialist policy full of regulations, euro-donating, redistribution, etc. But why is the common agricultural policy here? It's precisely to disrupt the free market to disrupt the fact that they're going to compete for who makes better and cheaper milk to disrupt who makes cheaper and better grain, and we have to face it somehow. But the free market itself can't resist it. Therefore the regulation by the Czech Republic, therefore the effort for this law. I think we have the same logical way of thinking, but in the final solution, we differ, that colleague Skopeček says that any regulation here will mean a return to socialism, but I say that without the regulation the free market cannot defeat the eurodotations, subsidies and redistribution that we must help the market in the Czech Republic. And we want to help him with this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u53	Thank you. Colleague Skopeček raise six factual remarks and a reaction from the Minister, who reports with priority rights, so only after those factual remarks. The first is my colleague Feranec, and before I give him my word, I will ask the House again for peace. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to what my colleague Skopeček said, where he says, those who want this proposal, socialism and everything will solve the market. It would be worth it if the market actually worked in the retail business if the business really was just an intermediary of customers' wishes for manufacturers and vice versa, but it doesn't work that way! Today, the chains are the creator of the market. They determine demand, they determine supply. Unfortunately, that's how the market is distorted. I don't want to go back on why that is, but that's reality. Chains determine what customers should buy - various discount events etc. etc., and determine what manufacturers are to produce. And they will say, it will be such a price, such a composition! That's how it really works! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u55	Thank you for keeping time. Now Mr Josef Kott, then colleague Skopeček, Václav Klaus, Jiří Bláha, Margita Balaštíková. That is the order of factual remarks. The Minister with priority rights will be able to wait. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. He basically said it all to his colleague Feranec. I would just add that during accession negotiations the Czech Republic certainly did not fight the same conditions as farmers in Poland or in countries of the former European Union or founding members. So the Czech Republic is really handicapped and this law helps it a little bit to get the Czech farmer and Czech food producer to the level of those countries where it works a little differently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u57	I also thank you for keeping time on the point of fact. Václav Klaus will now prepare the factual comment of his colleague Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u58	Thank you very much. First I respond to my honored colleague, Fiala. We differ in the fact that I do not want to fight for the free market by further regulation, by further ordering our entrepreneurs to offer or not, and I do not want to order our customers to buy, and I do not want to order them to do so because I know that this would lead to a smaller choice that they could buy in those stores and would lead to higher prices for those consumers. I do not think we want higher prices in the Czech Republic. And what I'm blaming those petitioners for is that we probably agree that the common socialist European agricultural policy is wrong. But how many of those translators fought against her? Who has ever raised any question here in the Chamber of Deputies that its overregulation is detrimental to the Czech farmer? I am convinced of this, and I am happy to fight you against a common European socialist agricultural policy, and I will try to make less subsidies and less regulation. And Mr. Feranc. The real master is the customer, Mr. Colleague. No one's forcing them to go to the supermarkets or the wholesale shops, they can choose what product they want. I just posted a picture of a shopping cart from a nearby supermarket on Facebook. There's a lot of Czech food you can buy. I do it, do it too, but don't force it on Czech consumers. You can advise them, we can lead by example, but let's not force them to buy. They're smarter than you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u59	Thank you for keeping time with my colleague Skopečka. Now, Mr Václav Klaus, will prepare Jiří Bláha. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u60	I'd respond to Mr. Skopeček and then criticize Mr. Babiš if I could make it. Mr. Skopečka, by your means, you remind me of a student like VŠE who theorizes something, but you're completely out of reality! After all, we are in a state here that often foreign farmers have far higher subsidies than Czech farmers and push them out of the market in large chains. And we don't like it, and if we want more self-sufficiency in food, that means the ratio between what we create and what we eat, it's protectionism. But then there are possibilities either to do grant races or to impose duties, or to ban import, or to try - and we also tend to do so in the second reading - those big chains try to limit it so that the percentage of Czech food offers larger ones. But notice the vegetables and fruit, there we are at 20 percent self-sufficiency! And now they're the prices that go up the most rocket-like. I really don't want to live to see the state that it's gonna be like a gown, and we're gonna wait for a plane from Marrakech or Russia or China to come and deliver food. This is not in the interests of the Czech Republic. The debate is quite relevant. And attack some kind of socialism here? I, for one, am the one who constantly fights European regulations. But the fact that you are defending this deformed European agricultural market has nothing to do with right-wingness, I beg you, absolutely nothing to do with it. Maybe it's politics. [[12.00 hours]] And now I might be able to criticize Mr. Babiš. It is, in a sense, a fundamental debate. And I'm very sorry that the media advisors have assessed that it could damage it, and now you're downloading it, it's a "like" policy, and that's not how we're gonna fight it, whether it's right or completely wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u61	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jiří Bláha, Mr Margita Balaštíková will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to comment on the things that have been said here. And it seems to me that I live in a completely different world than what Mr Skopeček here has been talking about through the President. There is no free market. There's no such thing as if I own something. If I own a store, like I own a store, I'll decide what's going to be sold in it and how much. And that's how the strings make it clear. If they buy butter from Czech farmers for 30, they'll sell it for 50 to sell theirs, which they bought for 40, and they'll sell it for 45. And so it is. And if Mommy, who has 20 grand a month clean, goes to the store, what will she buy? Expensive Czech, which of course the Czech manufacturer made cheaper or cheaper foreign? It'll buy cheaper foreign. So that's just how business works today, which determines what we're going to buy, by setting the price. Farmers supply our apples for ten crowns. And how much are they in the stores? Forty to match the foreign prices. So just don't say through Mr President that the customer determines. It doesn't. It determines the market that decides the price. And if something's cheaper, ask ten women, and nine of them will tell you they'll buy it cheaper if it's the same quality? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u63	Thank you. A real comment by Mrs Balaštíková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u64	Once again, colleagues. We all go to our buffet here. And I'll give you an example. Actually, we don't determine what we're going to buy there, but what they're going to offer. So if we are the Czech Parliament, let us say that we will challenge the Chancellor, and in our Czech Parliament we will have only Czech. And the way they do in Austria. You can't just buy it there. And you know what they're gonna say? If you want aloe vera that can't be grown in our country, get it out of the house, go buy it somewhere else! The only thing that sells here is what's able to produce our country. And that's called national pride, and we've lost it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u65	Thank you. Mr Lubomír Španěl, Mr Petr Bendl will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, in a normal situation, would never apply to this debate, because I am certainly not an expert on agriculture. But I'm listening to this debate, and I hear that there's a lot of wannabe agricultural experts here, so I've decided I'm going to get off shortly after all. It's just that I'm a villager, I live in a village of two and a half thousand, and I can compare the situation that's in the village today, because let's be honest, fertile fields and fertile land aren't in Wenceslas, but mostly around villages. I see that the link between the plant and the animal production that we were used to has simply vanished. It is not just the quality of food, it is also the sustainability of our soil fund. And maybe I was used to the fact that every corner that you left behind the village was a big dungyard. I just don't see it, I don't see it's normal animal production. And then some powder is loaded, it's spread out into the field, rape goes in, and it's done. So it's like Mrs. Balaštíková said. We've really lost national pride. And I don't quite trust Mr. Jurečka, the former Minister of Agriculture, that we're some kind of power. And I don't even believe we're all the same in agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u67	Thank you. Mr Petr Bendl's factual comment follows, and Mr Skopeček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u68	Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to perform anymore, but I have to. The fact that Václav Klaus Jr. here will start defending regulation and protectionism, restricting free trade, if I hadn't heard it with my own ears, I wouldn't have believed it. I'm also surprised that he's being lured into a trap here. Because this isn't about the Czech farmer at all. This is a group of food professionals looking for a way and looking for a tool, because no string belongs to any group - you read it correctly if you listen to me well. It doesn't. There's no other way to reach them through your government structures than to define the rules to listen to them and say, "This is what you're going to sell and at this price." That's what this proposal is all about! I don't know why you don't see it! After all, this is a search for ways to otherwise own chains and dictate to them what and to whom and for how much they will sell. It's totally fake.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u69	Thank you. Mr Jan Skopeček, Mr Patrik Nacher will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u70	Thank you for the floor. Easy, no emotions. Here's how many agricultural experts there are. Here we are simply Members of Parliament all who will decide on legislation, and it is completely out of the question here to say who is the expert on what. I could also say that when we vote on the budget, only Members who have a diploma from the University of Economics will remain in the Chamber of Deputies, the others will go into the hallway for a while, we will vote and then health professionals will come back, because health issues will be discussed. That's quite an argument. Moreover, in this case it is not agriculture, but market regulation. The fact that it is specifically in the agricultural area is another matter. I am simply convinced that the socialism that comes here in agricultural policy from the EU simply cannot be combated by even greater socialism, that, as socialism from the EU, we will not be defeated by introducing even greater socialism here in the Czech Republic. In my opinion, we'll just shoot each other, shoot each other in the leg. I would like to ask my colleagues if they really have a problem going to any store, whether a large hypermarket or a small grocery store, if they don't find Czech food there today. So I find them there, and I buy them regularly. And this kind of law, it's just, you know, it's not necessary. Anyone who wants to buy Czech food today in different price categories. To the student of VŠE. I'm not offended. I'm on my... one of his alma mater very proud. Thank God we have some high schools of economics here, because if my colleague Klaus had studied at least the first semester of high school of economics, he could never have signed that law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u71	Mr Patrik Nacher, then. I will introduce you to the next order: then Mrs Jana Levová and Mr Václav Klaus will speak - factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice afternoon. I didn't want to perform and I didn't want to perform. And I'm not an agricultural expert, and yet I'm gonna get off here because I want to say something that shouldn't fit in. I want to respond to some of the actual ones. I've already had this conversation with my colleague Skopeček in the hallway. One. We need to see the context. At that time, after the coronavirus, I find the debate on food self-sufficiency to be a legitimate debate. That's a legitimate debate. Especially for those kinds of products that naturally can be grown in our territory, as Marian Jurečka spoke. But so we can imagine. So let's imagine that we're a year early here and we're debating the production of medical devices - a year ago. We should be able to produce our own medical resources, not import it, etc. [[do not have to]] I think the debate would be very similar. We can't order who can produce, we'll import it etc. And look how the paradigm changed with the coronavirus. All of a sudden, it's a big benefit when we can make those medical supplies in our territory. [[12.10 hours]] I'm saying the food, it's going to be the second and third wave when there's another similar crisis coming. So the debate is legitimate. I'm not saying you're not an expert that it's in the perfect state, but that's why it's coming back to second reading. But I don't think it's about regulation in that primitive sense, but it's a legitimate debate about food self-sufficiency. I'm glad we're running it in a sophisticated way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u73	Thank you. Mrs Jana Levová, Mr Václav Klaus will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u74	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to my previous speaker or previous speaker about us Members who should set an example. When I started this election, that's exactly what I meant when I said we should focus on what we have here in restaurants, who's supplying us and what's being sold here for both our employees and ours. We're from different regions here. I think that every Member should be interested in presenting products, goods, crops and meat of producers from their regions. I even went so far, I started to wonder what I could do about it. So please, nothing. Before I started, I quit. Before I started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u75	Mr Václav Klaus, Mr Jan Skopeček will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u76	Yes, we have in the agricultural programme as a trikolóra efforts to increase the food self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic and to increase the share of Czech goods in large chains. We have a program. These awkward personal attacks by Mr. Bendl are just proof that you have absolutely no agricultural agenda, and all you rely on is to talk about socialism and attack personally. You personally were the Minister of Agriculture. I'm confronted with it even now that I'm driving around the Republic by a van, like those people in those villages and those farmers are going for it. You didn't really care what the share of Czech farmers on the market was. That's what your prime ministership looked like. So please don't put me in your mouth right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u77	Mr Jan Skopeček, Mr Milan Feranec will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u78	Well, speaking of personal attacks, I guess everyone should start with each other before they start blaming other colleagues. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. I'm going to respond to my colleague Nacher. Surely the struggle for food self-sufficiency is a legitimate political issue, no doubt let us lead it. I think it is a very expensive project that has more minuses than positives, especially for Czech consumers, who do not simply suffer from food shortages today, do not suffer from a lack of quality food. It's just that today the fan they can choose is extremely wide. I'm glad it's one benefit of capitalism that we have this freedom of choice both to offer and to buy what we want. I just don't want to limit it to people. I don't want to limit capitalism, I don't want to limit it as a trikolóra of capitalism. I am simply for the free market, for the least possible regulation and subsidies. But if my colleague Nacher is serious, he should probably start his movement. It may need to be suggested that the production of industrial crops in our fields, rape, maize used for purposes other than food production should be stopped, and there will certainly be more room in those fields to produce crops for Czech food. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u79	Thank you. Mr Milan Feranec, so far the last one registered with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u80	Thank you, Mr President. It may not have been expected that such a law would not be the subject of crazy political debates, but I want to respond to what my colleague Bendl, the former Minister of Agriculture, said where he discovered what was going on there. It's the processors. I respect you, Mr Former Minister through Mr President, but when you look at the proposal, it's about raw materials. It's not about products. In that sense, the law is against those processors. Maybe if you understand, you'll defend him all of a sudden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u81	Thank you, that was the last point in fact at the moment. Minister Toman is here for the debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u82	Hello again. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I do not want to be here any longer. I want to thank everyone for the suggestions that have fallen, and I look forward to the agricultural committee, that we'll discuss all this and put the stuff together. Just a few notes, if you don't mind. The customer doesn't decide anything, the chain decides. The customer buys what the chain offers him. That's one. Believe me, I have experience with this. Second of all, please, this is where the rape is always going. I just want to say one thing - 66% of rape is processed in the grocery store, which means it's completely out of control, what you're saying here. That's two. Third, please, let's talk specifically about self-sufficiency, but say it the other way around. Reduction of dependence on imports. Reduction of dependence on imports. That's one. Secondly, I've had many liberalization theories since the '90s. That's exactly how it turned out in agriculture. We ruined our agriculture because we didn't protect it. And the other thing is, we're not just talking about food production, but we're talking about the landscape. Say again - if we don't have apples for the supermarket, we don't have orchards. If we don't have vegetables in the supermarket and shops, we don't have vegetables in the field. If we don't have hoppers, we won't be producing beer. If we don't grow potatoes, I don't know what we're gonna do there instead. So that's the diversity of the landscape you're all calling for, but you don't want farmers to be able to sell these products. So I wish farmers could sell it and not just produce it. So that's what this is about. And then we're talking about the subsidies. Please, let's leave the debate to the agricultural committee. In other things, I don't want to restrict anyone, but let's have fun in favour of Czech, Moravian and Silesian farmers and processors and in favour of this whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-003-252.u83	Is anyone else reporting for the debate, please? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. Interested in the final words? He doesn't have a rapporteur, he doesn't have a minister. And since the proposal to repeat the second reading has been made, we will now vote on this proposal. There's a checkout request. I've checked you all out, please log in with your voting cards again. We're ready for the vote. We will therefore vote on the repetition of second reading. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 156, 171 Members registered, for 151, against 19. The motion has been accepted and we will repeat the second reading. That concludes the discussion of this proposal for the moment. Apology - Ms Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes for family reasons between 11.55 and 18 pm, respectively. until the end of the day for family reasons, as I said. We'll proceed to item 253. It's about
