ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u1	266. Government bill amending Act No. 355/2019 Coll., on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, as amended /German press 889/ - 3rd reading I ask that the Vice-President, Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Jan Volný, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 889/3, which was delivered on 30 June 2020. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House's press 889/4. I am now asking the appellant, which is the Minister, whether she is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. However, I have here the Prime Minister's application with priority rights, even written, so if you and the Prime Minister agree who will go first. [[Minister Schiller, I'll go.]] That you'd go and then the Prime Minister. Okay. So I ask the appellant if she is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. [[Yes.]] You are interested in speaking before the debate is opened. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the third reading of the third amendment to the Act on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, let me give my brief introductory word. I will not repeat all the arguments and data that I have already made during the first reading of the amendment, and what I would focus on this time is the very size of the deficit and its structure. Parliament's amendments are also linked to this. Regarding the size of the deficit, there was a discussion here in the House and in the media whether it was not too high, whether it should be by 50, 100 billion. lower or even, whether this amendment to the State Budget Act is necessary at all. So allow me briefly on several points to justify this. One. I would like to remind you that the current deficit cannot be assessed by the optics that we have been used to in recent years when the economy has undergone standard economic fluctuations. The current situation is quite extraordinary and, in my view, therefore, calls for a specific approach. Two. At the same time, a state budget deficit of 300 billion. CZK can no longer be considered to be completely spent. But the funds in it were completely allocated for the rest of the year. Of this, less than half fall on the revenue side of the budget, or a fall on the revenue side of the budget. We are able to transfer the extent of the decline in the economy to state budget revenues in half of the year of cash flow. Macroeconomic developments are likely to lead to a decline in income of around 130 billion. Crowns. However, the uncertainty about the magnitude of the economic recovery in the second half of the year is still high. That is why I am glad that, after reading the amendments that the Committee on Budgets has agreed to, nearly 34 billion still remain in the government's budget reserve. Crowns. Another nearly 90 billion. revenue will be lacking in the budget as a result of the discretionary measures taken to mitigate the effects of the economic recession, whether it is a compensatory bonus for self-employed persons and for partners in small limited liability companies, the waiver of minimum social insurance advances for businessmen, the remission of social security premiums paid by the employer, the recovery of tax losses against past profits, the abolition of the tax on the acquisition of immovable property, or the transfer of tourism services and cultural events to 10% of the value added tax rate. After all, most of these proposals were decided by this Chamber of Deputies. Moreover, the revenue of the state budget no longer includes 16 billion. in the form of a shift in the concurrent measurement or yield from the auction of frequency bands. Three. A number of measures on the revenue and expenditure side have not yet been completed, extended or planned for the second half of the year. Four. State budget deficit of 500 billion. The Czech koruna is the bailout of other parts of public finances, as well as budgets of households, companies and businessmen. For example, the decline in health income caused by the remission of minimum advances on self-employed persons, economic downturns and increased health expenditure addresses a record increase in payments for state insured persons of a total amount of about 27 billion. This also has to do with the fifth time, when the amendment also responds to the decline in the income of local authorities, it allocates resources to the present contribution to municipalities. Expenditure helps finance a number of programmes. These are programmes related to the development of regions, tourism in regions, water management projects of municipalities, transfers to second and third class roads, investments in reconstruction and modernisation of primary and kindergarten schools or rental municipal apartments. Undoubtedly, investments in cultural facilities or the promotion of spa are closely linked to the regions. Overall, these are programmes and actions in excess of 35 billion. CZK resulting from the division of the government's budgetary reserve, as amended by Prime Minister Babiš's amendment, as a Member. In the case of local authorities, it can also be remembered that a number of other aids, such as maintaining employment, purchasing power of the population, and helping to overcome difficult times for businessmen, limit the decline in the income of municipalities and regions from shared taxes. [[14.40 hours]] And last but not least, sixth. The proposal also works with other investments of central government, namely the strengthening of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure by 20 billion. CZK for already prepared projects of modernization and construction of motorway and railway buildings. Since the third amendment to the State Budget Act has reached its final reading, allow me to make a general statement on the amendments. 25 amendments and 10 accompanying resolutions were tabled in total. As a rule, the amendments propose strengthening the expenditure of the budget chapters, while others reduce the government budget deficit. And here I would like to reiterate that the government's budget reserve now amounts to 33,8 billion. koruna, serves primarily for unexpected facts. As I said, my goal is to keep the reserve for unrealised budget revenue beyond expectations. Other amendments aim to reduce state budget spending, namely contributions to the EU budget or subsidies to renewable energy sources. In this case, however, without amending international treaties, regulations and laws, changes in budget expenditure cannot be implemented. The Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies discussed all amendments on 3 July and supported three of them. Their funding from the government's budgetary reserve is broken down into chapters for specific purposes. I believe that the approval of these amendments addresses a substantial part of the objections to the government form of the amendment to the law, with full respect for the law of the Chamber of Deputies to decide not only on the amount but also on the structure of the state budget of the Czech Republic. I shall communicate my opinion on the other amendments in the course of the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u3	So I am opening up a debate in which Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is the first to sign up and prepare himself with priority rights Miroslav Kalousek, Chairman of TOP 09. In the meantime, before the Prime Minister comes to the microphone, I'll read one apology. Between 14.30 and 19.00, Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes for reasons of work. Mr. Prime Minister, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u4	So hello. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, the Government is putting forward to Parliament a proposal to amend the state budget for this year. And this is the second time we've asked for an adjustment to the state budget, and this time we propose to increase the deficit to a total of 500 billion. Crowns. Of course, this proposal raises quite naturally a number of discussions and objections. Our opponents are accusing us that the proposed deficit is excessive, that the budget is low-saving, etc. Of course, this rhetoric is quite understandable when it comes to our opponents who are in opposition. This is how any opposition who does not have to be responsible for its decisions acts. The government cannot behave like this, because the government must carefully weigh the consequences of such a decision. And it is the government that has to solve the problems that the current pandemic brings. And I would like to see a number of government actions assessed with at least a small degree of understanding. Let's think a little bit about what happened and go back a little bit in time. What would we possibly think if someone here six months ago said that in this relatively short time we would be going through a crisis of such proportions, and I would not be afraid to use the word disaster that we would have to stop almost the entire economy, stop education, stop the functioning of services and put such a strain on the whole health sector, as well as social services. I don't think anyone would believe it. And yet, it did. None of us, not from the government coalition, nor from the opposition, was prepared for such a test. There is no room for such training to prepare us for such development. Nevertheless, the government as a whole had to act. And I am convinced that the government was doing well, and we have managed to cope with the first surge of the crisis. In the end, I think that most of our citizens appreciated it, as their feedback suggests. Of course not everyone likes it, but I don't think anyone can please them. Now we are about to have a much more complex period in many ways. It is probably quite easy to administratively stop some production for health reasons - this is the work of the moment. But to restore her course, it's a matter of days, weeks or months. And also, and I would like to point out, the fundamental question is whether we can go back. If it's possible to move the course of time back to the time before the coronation. On this very issue, I think there are relatively large differences. Not many of them are the voices that say the world, and if you want, the economy after the coronavirus won't be the same as it used to be, that it can't go back. However, there are also few who feel that they can go back and therefore strive to find their way back. The question is, is there even a way back? If such experiments are not doomed to failure. But we must look forward and look for new opportunities and new paths, a new form of our economy. By the end of the year, we will see if and how pandemics have changed people's habits, such as travel. This concerns both our citizens and those who came to us from abroad. This is also linked to the structure of the workforce. We see how vulnerable we are today because we do not have foreign workers, and therefore we cannot fully develop production as needed. This crisis has also shown how high our dependence on imports of certain foodstuffs is, and we must also change that in the interests of our citizens. Specifically, a remark to the workforce. At the end of May, we have 270 thousand. unemployed, that's 74,000 year-on-year. more. On the other hand, we're registering 335 thousand. job vacancies, 8,000 year on year. less than 250 thousand of them. in the category of craftsmen, machine operators and fitters and auxiliary staff. Only the demand for drivers exceeds 30 thousand. persons. We must take this action actively and create capacities that could eliminate this deficiency. We really need to invest heavily in this. We must combine the payment of unemployment aid in the future so that those who are requalified are properly motivated to change their profession. This is an active position that we will support in cooperation with employers. We could say a lot more about these connections. But what they show is that we need to think about what is new and how else to do in the economy so that we can cope with the emerging system of international trade. It must be added that such a new, different system will not be born immediately. This will take some time, but we need to think about it already. Therefore, we must consistently continue to promote digitalisation, the development of modern forms of work, including so-called. remote working, support emerging start-ups and the development of modern technologies. In this context, we are also creating the necessary investment capacity. It is not our biggest problem to finance some investments, but the problem is bureaucracy, long approval. Above all, we need to have the necessary permits and also have sufficient capacity. Here, too, we come across a lack of building professions, especially project capacities. Let us remember how in 2010 the design and construction of motorways was completely blocked. How 50 grand left the construction department. staff. Those are our tight spots. And, of course, a struggle with all sorts of activists costs us valuable time. Yes, we can talk about D1. Yes, thank you, Mr. Patrik of Earth Children, she could have been done 15 months ago if Mr. Patrik hadn't put pitchforks in it. [[14.50 hours]] As far as the overall development of our economy is concerned, there are plenty of predictions about its further development. For all of us, I think it is significant that from a very short period of time, which is not a lot of relevant data, we are trying to guess how this is going to be. That is why I would describe all of these predictions simply by saying that these are some kind of predictions, perhaps comparable to arguing about what the weather will be like in the second half of December. Well, I don't know which one of us knows. Therefore, I would recommend that we avoid any particular numbers and not look for sensations in these catastrophic scenarios, who will process a more gloomy and blacker view. Another category of similar predictions appeared this week. The European Commission predicts a decline in the economy by as much as 7.8 percent. But there are even worse predictions. I think that we should be saving these considerations, because so far we have little credible data about the present and especially about the future. After all, some such predictions speak of a rapid recovery of economic growth. Let's stick to the facts. Today we have data on industrial production in May, a decrease of 25 percent. It's not a bad number. Against April, when production fell by a third, it is an improvement and this will continue to improve, as production in automotive is slowly recovering. Here I recently asked Chief Škoda's car how it is possible that he is still waiting for Octavia, some waiting nine ten months. I don't understand why it's not made in time. I also don't understand why škodovka can't sell in Vietnam or Thailand, why Mother škodovka won't let them, because I think that Škodovka is one of the best cars produced in Europe. We have very good figures on construction. The decline of 8 percent is also an extremely good result, the more so that the engineering constructions are at the level of last year. And here I must add, that is what we are trying to support with government measures. Compared to the European Union, where construction fell by a quarter in April, our results are both from another world. I think the numbers on retail sales and services look good when we realize that a large part of them could not work in May. Naturally, these results are to some extent conditional on government work. We have taken a number of steps to promote job retention, to provide companies with more certainty and to guarantee their loans. Here's a big debate about why COVID isn't pumping - it's a threesome or a C... [[O.R. specifications.]] Three. Well, that's only because if those firms have lower sales, they're living off their own cash and they're gonna ask for those loans later. This is the expression of one of the biggest bankers in our country, and it has logic. So, of course, we gave 500 crowns for every calendar day to all the self-employed people, 7. 7. it's a total of 20 billion. Today we are preparing a similar compensation for people working on work agreements. We have tried our best to maintain people's purchasing power, to slow down to a large extent the inevitable decline in purchasing capacity, because there will be a logical and also a limitation, or even a reduction in wages in companies affected by crises. And that will manifest itself in the future. We also want to provide additional funding to all municipalities to compensate for their income losses on shared taxes so that they can implement their investment plans, that is 12.8 billion. The crown, and that's what's in the deficit, that's what's waiting for the approval of our House. We have confirmed an increase in expenditure on the construction of transport infrastructure - 124 billion. Crowns. I'm begging you, it's never invested that much. Here's one of the few charts I have with me today. [[He's pointing.]] 200 billion. Investment 2020. She's never been this high. And who's the main investment engine? Roads and highways and SŽDC. These are the main engines that will invest almost 115 billion together. We have also increased the rewards for health care workers who were on the front line with Coronavirus, and that of health - I could talk about health care here for about two hours, I'll just say the most important things. We're up 20 billion. payments for state insured persons. That's in the budget. We're delaying and stabilizing state hospitals of 6.6 billion. We have prepared a compensation decree with the aim of stabilizing health care, where we increase health care to pay an additional 8 billion. Overall, 366 billion are going to health care. Please, it's a year-on-year increase of 48 billion, 48 billion. year-on-year. And we're gonna raise next year. So if we add the debt, this year we're putting 55 billion, 55 billion into health care. And, of course, we raise salaries. This year, the average monthly reward of doctors is expected to rise to 88 thousand. and sisters 47 582. So, thanks to these measures, there has been a year-on-year increase in the number of nurses in acute bed care for the first time since 2012. So the sisters - they are the most prestigious profession in my country - stop leaving hospitals and, on the contrary, they slowly return, which can be seen as a significant success. We continue to support medical schools, 600 miles. That's where he's going. That's the 11-year project for 7 billion. There's been an increase in the number of students at medical faculties by 20 percent, etc., so I could read it here for hours, where the money goes, of course, from the deficit. We tried to do everything we could to keep at least in the basic features of the purchasing population. At the same time, these subsidies were mainly directed to companies so that they could compensate their employees' wages so that they would not have to release them. Antivirus - to 7. 7. paid 14.7 billion. Crowns. So far, summary data on economic developments suggests that we need to count on its decline, but I would be very restrained so far and would warn about catastrophic scenarios, also because we went through a crisis like this ten years ago. The conversations I have with many corporate managers fill me with some optimism. I see we have experienced people at the firm who can deal with the new reality. Our companies have also not been standing in place in recent years. Many have changed in technology, in marketing, in development, gained skilled workers. People in corporate leadership have some visions, ideas about what they want and should do. Yes, we are a creative nation and I am convinced that we will come out of this again as one of the best in Europe. I am also convinced that it is in these companies that great potential is hidden to help us find our way out of this crisis. It is precisely their practical experience that we need to combine the possibilities of help from the government. As a government, we are always prepared for this, and we are aware that there is a need to invest in it. Also because other countries, whose companies are often competitors of our companies, do so. That's why we can't leave our companies without some form of state aid. We need to listen to more of the company's voice. I also take one thought out of these talks - not to make the cuts that we witnessed between 2011 and 2013, when the government caused unnecessary cuts to the economy into another crisis. And on top of that, a little comment. This pandemic also changes access to the economy, to all the theoretical structures on debts, etc., which have provided us with various theorists in recent years in the European Union and in the world. Many are beginning to understand that without the active role of budgetary policy, without the active role of the state, economic growth cannot be restored. Therefore, the greatest fears of all politicians, as I can read from their statements, are not that the crisis will be long-term, without a starting point. The problem of debt is not addressed by any of them today. The European Union itself comes with a huge amount of money. Yes, we can be critical of that, but that's true. And their fear is elsewhere. It is a concern that what was a crisis in the 1930s could be repeated. [[15.00 hours]] The government is coming to Parliament today with a proposal for a record deficit of the state budget and it is necessary to say at all how, for example, we have budget implementation at 30. 6. what are the items there? We don't take money. As of 30. 6th year-on-year pension for 253 billion, which means an increase of 18.7 billion year-on-year, salaries of civil servants, these are the teachers, these are the soldiers, the police, the firefighters, the increase of 135 billion year-on-year, 10.6 billion. Investments at 30. 6. increased by 18,6 billion year on year. The benefits of sickness insurance, it's medical and quarantine, an increase of 10 billion year on year. Government debt service - please note, we are reducing government debt service by 4.4 billion year on year. Why? Because we have a great rating, and when we go to the market to borrow it, we always overhang it and borrow it on great terms. And I could keep reading here. So we didn't take anybody's money. We're fulfilling the government's programming statement, yes, and there's no situation like back in the day when there was a crisis that the cops didn't even have gas for my security detail. So it's a completely different situation. And what is important is that, like us, there are other governments that come up with even more deficits than we have. Germany has 14 times as much GDP as we do. Yes, they're gonna spend thousands of billions of euros there, they're the only ones in Europe. Yet, in some countries their starting positions, the relationship between public debt and GDP, are far worse. It reaches or exceeds 100 per cent of GDP more often. That's fundamentally different from our numbers. So again, my favorite graph. [[He's pointing.]] Yes, here you can see how it went up, then it went down to 20,5 thanks to us - and now we're gonna be in debt temporarily, but everyone knows where the money is going, but still the debt will be smaller by the end of the year than we started before I became Secretary of Finance. That's because we've been saving. We had low deficits. We've been cutting down. It's not true we didn't create the reserves. This is the reserve. Today we can borrow without fear, everyone knows where the money is going, and of course next year we will have to have a special budget with a deficit, but then we will return to the original concept, and I am still convinced that we will be one of the best in Europe again. So today I don't think that these discussions about who's in debt and how someone's running in Europe. Nobody. Only politicians here talk about it. But you need to look at history. We made it clear today, and Secretary Schillerová made it clear what the deficit was made of, how we would continue to work. Let's see if we can exhaust him, maybe not. All the better. We don't want to have a new deficit approved any minute now. So I think it's a budget that holds employment that supports investment that benefits all citizens of our country. Therefore, I firmly hope that the budget will be approved today and that we will not be asking for anything in terms of deficit by the end of the year. So, despite all the problems that our economy has and which we are going to meet, I am looking to the future with confidence that we will be able to overcome them and we will be able to restore the functioning of our economy. I believe that, in cooperation with the government and employers, we will be able to find a way out of this crisis, and we will do everything we can to ensure that this is for the benefit of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u5	Now I'll read the apology. Mr Václav Klaus apologizes for today's meeting from 14:00 to the end of the day for work reasons. I now have two priority rights here, so Mr Miroslav Kalousek will be the first to speak and Vice-President of the House Petr Fiala will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable members of the government, gentlemen, before I make a brief comment on the third reading of the bill, the amendment on the state budget, allow just a small comment on the Prime Minister's reminiscence, which he said here today: Mostly no cuts as in the years 11 to 13. I can't remember, I have a vivid memory of the election campaign in 2013, when with the Prime Minister at one discussion held by the Chamber of Commerce, I was under the overwhelming fire of his criticism, when he accused me of how much those companies in the economy had to save to survive, and how little I saved, because if we saved more, he said, you didn't have to have any deficits. We could save money in that economy. You didn't know how to save money, Minister! - I was told by the chairman of the YES movement, today's Prime Minister, on a rather tempestuous round of applause for the business public who felt that way. And I was kind of embarrassed because I thought, yes, if it was politically possible, I'd like to save even more in operating expenses, but I just couldn't. The Prime Minister added that the deficit is a loss, the losses aren't made, and he wouldn't have had any deficits if he were in my position, because he would have run it as a company. So I couldn't remember today when he's proposing a $500-billion deficit telling us what it's like to save in operating expenses. I've got that speech saved up somewhere, Prime Minister, which you were interested in as part of the election campaign, as well as me, I admit, I'll send it to Jesus. Now, let me briefly comment on the fundamental reservations of the TOP 09 club on the proposal that we are to vote on and on the amendments that we will support. It is suggested to increase the deficit by 200 billion, the 200 billion. consists of the estimated 63 billion. income slump and 137 billion. increase in expenditure. Please allow me to comment briefly on the expenditure part of the balance sheet and then on the revenue part. The 137 billion. The additional expenditure required by the Government may be broken down into three parts. That part is expenditure that is not related to the coronavirus crisis. Even if the government convinces us that the novel is forced by the coronavirus crisis, in 137 billion. are items that have absolutely nothing to do with the Chinese virus and quarantine and subsequent economic problems. These are the items on the crust, those are the items to fight the drought and that's the exit fee for the cops. I don't want to say that these are unnecessary expenses, that they shouldn't be spent. But they were to be spent within the budget balance 2019. We knew we had a crust here a year ago. That there's a need to fight the drought, we've known that for years. And there's nothing to worry about getting a cop's severance package. These were to be resolved by the government as part of the change in priorities, the balance of the budget approved in 2019. Wanting extra money on them under the cover of coronavirus is just a scam. This has nothing to do with coronavirus. So that's one part of these 37 billion. [[137]] [[15.10 hours]] We can split the second part into money, where we really know what and why they're going to be spent. The Prime Minister here tells us that we know exactly where the money is going. We only know about half of those items. Yes, we know exactly that 12.8 billion. he's going to compensate the municipalities. There we can even count it on the size of the village and the inhabitants. But then there's a whole series of items where we have no idea what they're going to be spent on. Worse yet, the government has no idea. In particular, there are still 36 billion. in the government budget reserve. Please nicely, it needs to be extended not to the whole budget, because it already had its government budget reserve calculated. It only needs to be pulled up to the 137 billion. increased expenditure. 137 billion. increased spending to demand 36 billion. The government's budget reserves, that's just an astronomical number, just a blank check that has no equivalent and no justification. If the government said it was 137 billion. He wants 5 billion. Government budget reserves, please, even that would be a lot, but there is an extraordinary situation, some higher flexibility should be here. But 36 billion.? The government has no idea what they're gonna spend it on. Neither do we, and if we take the duties of a Member really consistently and honestly, we have no right to raise our hand for something like this, because we can only raise our hand when we know what it is for. And we don't know that. So is 10 billion. to support business. A program that may be effective, but maybe not. No one knows that today because we do not know the criteria of this program, we do not know how the government will choose who should be the addressee of these funds. The government quite honestly writes in Mr Babiš's amendment that he will still decide on this. But we should only approve her when the government knows when we know, and then we'll consider releasing the money or not. Otherwise, we're basically cheating on voters because he's chosen us all here to decide each crown knowing where it's going. And you, who are going to raise your hand for this, say to your constituents, "We're not going to do it." Even if it's our duty, we want to sign a blank check to the government and let the government decide somehow. Please note the contradiction in the Prime Minister's speech when he was able to say completely contradictory sentences within two minutes. That one sentence was-- we know exactly where the money is going. And the second sentence was, maybe we'll spend the expenses, maybe not. Only someone who has no idea where he wants to allocate tens of billions or doesn't want to. Maybe we'll think of something, and then we want to get that blank check from you, and then we'll send it over, but now we don't know. And the joke is that an honourable Member should never allow such a thing, because it is our duty to know where each crown will go. And you just don't know it. Worse yet, the government itself doesn't know that in tens of billions. I'm already leaving aside, even though it bothers me very much that the government wants 137 billion. increase expenditure, and yet it has not tried to symbolically evaluate the effectiveness of existing measures. I do not protest against them, we have supported many of them, but I think that after the weeks they are running, we should at least try to consider efficiency and, in particular, efficiency for the future. Let me give you an example - the Antivirus program. I'm sure it was a good thing it was triggered. I think that in the early weeks of the crisis has played an absolutely decisive role, and we have supported it, but looking at industrial numbers or industrial production drop numbers, please admit that a small part of the jobs held by Antivirus no longer exist really, because in a number of sectors demand does not return to pre-crisis levels just so soon, which logically, with lower demand, forces companies to restructure, forces them to reduce labour costs and to reduce a large part - I don't want to say large parts, but just some of those jobs that we are holding on artificial nutrition today, but they just don't really exist anymore. And I think it takes a serious discussion on how long these places have been meaningful, which no longer really exist in the economy, because there is no work for them, and there will be no work for them, how long it is worth keeping them on artificial nutrition for taxpayers' money and debt. I think that's a serious debate. We should be running it here, too. We're not. Because the government doesn't bother to give us an opinion on the effectiveness of existing measures. Another thing that bothers us immensely on the spending side is the absolute unwillingness of the government to save even one crown on the operating expenditure of the budget approved in the period of relative well-being in 2019. I don't want to go back to the 2013 Prime Minister's accusations when he strongly accused me of how little I cut, how much he would cut more, but that the government would at least make a symbolic attempt to save a few percent of the operating expenditure in individual chapters - not investment, please, but operating expenditure - in order to show some belonging to the economy that sends us its taxes and at the expense of which we borrow, that doesn't even occur to her. To this day, one single crown. All companies, and there are many of you and entrepreneurs here, so you know I'm telling the truth, today they have to cut their operating costs on the marrow to survive. They even reduce wages, cut off bonuses, simply do everything they can to reduce costs to survive. Government authorities, they live like there's no crisis. They have a budget approved from 2019, they pay hundreds of thousands of wages, they hire other employees. What crisis? I mean, we can borrow it. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, this is arrogance towards the real economy. It's just that no government should afford this, no executives should afford it. I know we can't save 137 billion there, but something can. At least, at least prove an honest effort. You're not capable of it. And I'm fluently moving on to the revenue side of the budget. The proposal before us envisages a decline in income by 63 billion. CZK, which results from the April forecast, which assumes a decline in gross domestic product by 5,6 %. I'm not criticizing the April prediction right now, it just came out of April's numbers, and it couldn't have gone any different. It was processed completely professionally and objectively, but since then we still have some other data. We have a slightly more recent OECD prediction that predicts a drop of more than 9 percent. We have an even more recent prediction from the European Commission, which predicts a drop of 7.5 percent. And above all, we have May 29 percent of the May industrial production decline in May, where after 33 percent of April we have May 29 percent, and if we clear it of the public holidays, which is more in May, we are somewhere at a 26 percent drop. [[15.20 hours]] The Prime Minister congratulated himself. We all know the numbers are significantly worse than even the biggest pessimists predicted. And so we all know, Madam Secretary has agreed that the April forecast is burdened with the risks of going down, that it could be worse. And after the May numbers of the decline in industrial production, the risk is becoming more secure. It can't get any worse. It's gonna get worse. We don't know if it's gonna be 7, 8 or 9, it could be 10, but it can't be 5.6, it'll be more. And because it's going to be more, that revenue drop is going to be greater than 217.5 billion. compared to the approved budget of 2019, by tens of billions. And there's no doubt about that now. Now we can't afford to say we can't read crystal balls. Yes, we can't tell you what it's going to be. But that it will be and that it will be tens of billions, that's for sure today, that's not a risk. The Minister said to the Committee on Budgets here and to the plenary, in response to my question, whether he wanted to let the deficit go free, because if we now approve 137 billions. spending, and we know that income is going to go down more than 63, so logically there's a risk of a far greater deficit than the 500 billion we're going to approve today, so the secretary assured us that she wouldn't allow a free fall, that in that case she would tie up spending to make the deficit as much as possible 500 billion. did not exceed. And then logically, Madam Secretary, with all due respect, because we both now know that revenue is going to fall more than 63, I allow you to ask, and I believe that the Chamber of Deputies deserves the information, where you intend to tie up the expenses so that you do not allow a free fall in the expansion of the deficit. I think this information just has to come out tonight. Because if it doesn't, you don't raise your hand for 500, but you raise your hand for 500 plus, and I don't think it really has anything to do with responsibility anymore. And if the Minister does not give us credible information, the binding must be done by the Chamber of Deputies by accepting any of the amendments that were made at second reading and leading to a reduction in expenditure. I have repeated many times here that this is a principle that I find difficult to accept, that I think that the balance is to be fixed at first reading and that only fiscally neutral proposals are to fall at second reading, but because that is simply a legislative interpretation and because there are amendments that reduce spending on the table, so provided that the Minister does not assure us how he is prepared to reduce the expenditure, we must reduce them ourselves by making our own decisions, by adopting one of those amendments. If we don't do this, then we need to be aware, and no one can make excuses for not knowing, you know that, today you know that the revenue is going to go down by more than 217.5, and that it is your duty to correct it on the expense side so that the deficit is not more than 500 billion. Or maybe you don't care and go to 600. This, of course, is linked to the debate that awaits us after the holidays, and that is the debate on the deficit for 2021. I'm very pleased to hear the Prime Minister here, and please remember that sentence, and let's cut it boldly in the record because he says: now we're gonna borrow the 500, we're still gonna be better off in terms of GDP than we were in 2013, but then we're gonna go back to the former regime when we were saving. This sentence contrasts sharply with what you have recently stuffed here, the amendment to the Budgetary Responsibility Act, but this amendment does not prevent you from implementing the policy that the Prime Minister has committed himself to today that we will return to the regime that was here before the crisis. In that case, we can afford a half-billion-dollar deficit this year. Yes, we can, because, indeed, thanks to our responsible policy in the past crisis, we also have a relatively low level of debt, I believe, the third or fourth best in Europe. [[The Minister of Finance states that the third.]] Third, thank you, Madam Secretary. However, if we look at the long-term sustainability of our budgets, we have the fourth worst in Europe, because we are approaching the 2030 crisis year, when strong 1970s and younger ones start to retire, and instead of social and health insurance payers, they will become pensionists and state insured people, and behind them much weaker years will not have the chance to finance the necessary needs of the pension and health insurance system. If we are staggered and overdebted after seven years of hundreds of billions of deficits to the start of that potential pit in 2030, I can hardly imagine how that generation will cope with it. I'm gonna be 70, retired, so I'm gonna shake my pension to the max, and the level of health care that I'm gonna be given, but what a generation of 30s and 40s is gonna do about it, I really don't know if we're gonna agree to a fundamental system reform that the government has promised us for six years, but it hasn't put anything on the table, or if we don't decide to consolidate much faster than the seven years. We can afford a half-billion-dollar deficit this year, no doubt, but we cannot afford hundreds of billions and hundreds of billions deficits in the coming years. Otherwise, we do nothing but tunnel the future. I ask anyone who has children or grandsons not to take such a responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u7	So I will now recapitulate the speakers, because we've been regrouping and regrouping here in different ways. So here I have applications for three factual notes. He is Mr Jan Volný, Minister Schillerová and Mr Votava. In the general debate, Mr Ferjenčík will first be prepared with priority rights, because he is empowered by the club, then Chairman of the ODS Petr Fiala, and then Mr Jan Hrnčíř is empowered by the SPD club. So now a factual point, two minutes, Mr Jan Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u8	Thank you. Gentlemen and ladies, colleagues, I would like to point out the dishonesty of Mr Kalousek's arguments in his previous speech. He says bark is not the result of coronavirus, that dryness is not the result of coronavirus. Yes, he's right. But he forgot to say that 30 years of ploughed roads, twos and threes aren't the result of coronavirus either. Similarly, the unfinished infrastructure of motorways and first-class roads, where we put 20 billion, is not the result of coronavirus. I mean, where else to invest if we want to invest, and we figured, we're in agreement that there's a need to invest in times of crisis? We're not gonna build hungry walls and throw money away just to keep people busy, so we put them where it's necessary. And if there's a fairly high item of 7 billion. to the restoration of forests after the barking calamity, but that is also necessary for our children! So where else do we put the money to spin the economy so we can give jobs to these local companies, if they're going to draw, if they're going to make small water storage tanks to keep our people busy so our people can make money and then spend it in the shops and the money is back in circulation! Where else to put the money than where it needs to be. We're not gonna build hungry walls. And if we want to invest, we're quite in agreement on that, so let's say honestly that it needs to be put where it really needs to be: into the roads, into the highways, but also into the crust-calamity. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u9	Minister Alena Schillerová will now appear and Mr Václav Votava will be prepared. Please. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u10	I hope I can make it in two minutes, but I need to respond now so I don't forget. You know, Prime Minister Kalousek, I might have said that before, so I'm gonna repeat myself. I have had all the opposition MPs' amendments to the covid laws calculated, and it is 723 billion. All of them. Some of them were yours. That means, when we proposed a compensation bonus of CZK 500, you suggested CZK 700. And I often encounter the opposition's turbulence simply our proposals are fiscally upward, and that is not new, but at the same time the second breath calls for us to be as fiscally economical as possible and to save as much as possible. It doesn't add up. There's no constructive debate for me then. See what's going on in Europe. See how individual European countries react. You're setting an example for me in Germany. I can always hear here: look at the Němec. I know Germany's numbers. It's a strong economy. They'll probably get out of this very quickly. But their debt ratio will be around 70 percent of GDP. Even with a 500-billion-dollar deficit, we estimate a little over 38 percent of GDP because we were below 30% before the pandemic. You say, and I take it it's fair that you admit that I'm not able to just cut tens of billions at individual resorts. Yesterday I went back to the resorts for unused claims to 30. 6. I'll be on it with them in the semester. I said on the budget committee, and I confirm here that I will not let the budget fall free, that that is why there is a reserve, that the macroeconomic forecast from April is indeed burdened down. But we won't do the next until the beginning of September when we have the numbers of the Czech Statistical Office. [[Attention on time.]] But at this point, I'll finish it another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u11	You can sign up again for a point of fact, Madam Secretary, of course. So you're applying. The order is now: Mr Václav Votava. [[She prefers the secretary.]] So before you is Mr Kalousek in that case. If Mr Václav Votava disowns himself factually. [[Member of Votava: I do not renounce, I prefer.]] But then you are still Mr. Kalousek in that case. [[Mr Kalousek also prefers the Minister.]] So you, too, disown yourself for the Minister. So, two more minutes. And you both stay in line, just that I ask, both of you? [[Yes.]] Okay. So please, Madam Secretary, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u12	Thank you both. I don't want to lose the thread. I'm not cutting down tens of billions. 10 percent of the operating expenses were 3 billion, which I cut in 2020. The reduction in the number of officials was about 2.7. Of course, we left out the armed forces. And these other tens of billions, and you finally confirmed that, and you know I'm not going to find them. That is why there is still a large budgetary reserve, which is now around 34 billion, because I can swallow it, a fall in tax revenue, which may be higher, and you have also admitted that than we have now estimated according to the original macroeconomic forecast, and we have added the government's discretion measures. I actually said that if the results were to deteriorate, I would start tying up expenses and prioritizing the various expenditures of the ministries. But I will not do that - and I answer that question you asked me repeatedly - in the deepest economic recession in the history of this country since the 1930s. As far as the sustainability of public finances is concerned, yes, there is no pension reform on the table. She hasn't been on the table in 30 years. I don't want to make excuses. But at the end of August, and it was the Ministry of Finance under my leadership that pushed through to the government the OECD analysis, which is currently being noted these days, and at the end of the holiday, we should have it as government at the latest. And I appreciate the analysis because it was created by independent foreign experts who were here on a mission, collecting data. And I think it might be better than the various pension committees that have been back here in history for several times, and there's always been some kind of burden. So we know about the sustainability of public finances. We know that's a problem that's gonna happen around here in 15 years. And we know we're gonna have to get ready for him. [[Attention on time.]] However, at this point in time, I would consider it reprehensible to tie up expenses.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u13	Thank you. Mr Václav Votava will now speak on the point of fact and Mr Miroslav Kalousek will be prepared. So far, I only have these two applications for actual. Please, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I would just like to make a point of order. My colleague Kalousek here spoke of the possibility of reducing the deficit on the basis of an amendment, which I think is here from the pirát. Of course, as we discuss this law as a normal law, it is, of course, possible. It's relevant. Such an amendment may be voted on. However, we also discussed this with the Committee on Budgets, if it would not be necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House in such a way that, when it is necessary to change, to amend the state budget, to discuss it as a special law on the state budget, that is to say, the basic parameters will be agreed in the first reading, and those cannot be changed after that. I said that there is also a possibility, of course, because there is a parliamentary proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure in the sense of how to deal with the fact that we have a state final account in relation to the budget, which means that the budget at the third reading can be discussed for next year when the state final account from the previous year is discussed. It's got logic. There is this parliamentary proposal signed by a number of colleagues from other parliamentary clubs. It is also possible to make a change within this simple amendment so that it is clear for the next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u15	Mr Miroslav Kalousek will now make a point of fact. Meanwhile, two other Members have already volunteered, so they will prepare for Mr Kalousek, Mrs Věra Kovářová, and then Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u16	Thank you for the floor. Just three brief remarks on all three of my previous speakers. To the Volný Member and to the reservation that my argument is dishonest. She's not dishonest, Mr. Ambassador. It's logical. I'm not saying bark or fear of drought is wrong. On the contrary. That's a good expense. However, they are to be addressed at the expense of other priorities approved in 2019, not additionally. Solve this intensively within the balance sheet of 2019, not extensively. If I deal with it extensively and conjure with coronavirus, that's dishonest. To the Minister of Finance. Yes, you say it fairly honestly, so that's why we have the 36 billion, because if we don't spend it all, that's our reserve. Yeah, but that's not supposed to be your reserve, Madam Secretary. That's what the House is here to decide. If you want to increase your expenses by just 60, 70 billion. With you saying, if necessary, we will come again in the fall, so it would be much easier to vote on. I think we've proven that we're willing to meet flexibly. But you're asking us to make a blank check. Just no honourable Member should sign a blank check because it is his duty, not government law. Otherwise, cancel the State Budget Act, let the government say that it will spend a trillion and a half as it decides, and it can be flexible and we don't have to meet at all. But the House is supposed to do this, no one else. Mr Votav. Yes, that's why we put forward the change at first reading, not at second reading. I am convinced that none of us could ever imagine that the principle I consider to be holy would be respected, fix the balance at first reading and not at second reading. Maybe this time it'll turn out the way it is. But it's too dangerous for the future. It may also be that the draft budget will pass through the House by 100 billion. a higher deficit. So I'm applying to the novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u17	Mrs Věra Kovářová will now make a point of fact. Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be ready. Please, you have the floor. Your two minutes, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u18	Thank you for the floor. I would respond to Mr Volný, who opposed the fact that someone says there is money on bark, on droughts that are not related to the corona crisis. I don't think we've ever said bark and dryness is a problem. On the contrary. We've called a dry meeting and so on. But I think that the fact that bark is a big problem and the drought is a big problem was already known when drawing up the state budget for 2020. So how come these amounts weren't there? Why? That's interesting. So it's for crust and dry. [[15.40 hours]] And then the Volný Member spoke about the need to put money in the roads and highways, and so I ask - where to next? Roads and highways will not save this economy. Of course, infrastructure can help, but it won't. And we have amendments that put money in the local economy for smaller projects for small and medium-sized enterprises. To the Minister's question. What did you mean by adding up all the opposition's amendments for 723 billion?? What's the demeanor's power? And that we were attacking your designs. No, that was the other way around. The opposition made suggestions that you rejected, and then you filed them a month or two later, and it was too late. So sometimes it is a pity, Madam Secretary, that you do not listen to the opposition, that you will not give the opposition a chance to get away with some amendments, and that makes it too late, and the money that people needed right away will not be given until a few months later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u19	So now a factual remark, so far the last, Mikuláš Ferjenčík. I'm asking, Mr. Ambassador, you're at the same time with priority rights. Well, if you want to connect it, then you can, because there's no one in line for you right now. Well, you see how helpful I am that I'm going to advise you that the pirát have room to express themselves. [[There's laughter.]] Because if someone else came forward during a factual note, you wouldn't actually have that priority right after, so here you have it together, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u20	I understand, I think I should. I was just about to respond to Mr. Votava in a matter of fact, but I think I can connect it. So I'll start by responding to Mr. Votava. I wanted to say that, of course, we see the difference in the way we are discussing, on the other hand, as an MP, we have no choice but to respond to what the Rules of Procedure are today. And I would like to stress that we went exactly in its sense, which means that we are reducing the overall deficit. We think the point of this provision is that there is no massive increase in the deficit at second and third reading, while reducing it seems quite right to us, in addition to some chapters, e.g. government debt management, repeatedly using as such a hidden resource for a real increase in deficit. So real practice in the House is a little more complicated than what the letter of the Rules of Procedure says. Anyway, I'm gonna follow up on the budget speech myself. Dear colleagues, we acknowledge as pirát that this situation has no parallel in the history of the Czech Republic, that it was really that we had a deficit of 200 billion in the middle of the year, that there was never such a thing here, that we would shut down the economy for a few months, that was never here. We agree that the path - and I stress the word one-off - is correct. For this reason, we have also not blocked budget discussions in any way. We see that the government's budgetary reserve is now practically exhausted, we see that the municipalities need to get the billions to which they are entitled by law and which are left to reserve the budget chapter, we see that there are a number of chapters that need investment for municipalities that need to be realized as quickly as possible, and if it is delayed again, it will have a number of negative impacts, and there is a risk that it will not be able to exhaust at all by the end of the year. In the same way, we called for the government not to forget about groups of people that we think she forgot a little bit. We were able to negotiate a compensatory bonus for part of the negotiators, specifically for those who paid the premiums. Unfortunately, we have not managed to negotiate a compensation bonus for people who have a CFI and a small part-time job, this is now a group that bombards me with emails and feels completely rightfully forgotten. In our opinion, the government has drawn the help line too low, and there are a lot of people who, for example, are doing a small job contract for their housing cooperative or for the community of unit owners, and they're taking thousands of units there, and because of the few thousand they're losing their bonus for their business. We are also sorry that people without taxable income did not receive the same remission of health insurance as businessmen, because it is simply unfair to us and it is an additional bureaucracy. Those people have to set up a trade license to support themselves, which doesn't make any sense in itself. So it was the second thing we wanted the government to do to help those she forgot. At least part of the dealkeepers managed to get away with it, so I hope Friday's gonna be okay. And so did we appeal to the government to make it as quick as possible. Unfortunately, credit programs ended in a fiasco, really COVID-I, COVID-II was so overloaded that the authorities or the bank that administered it could not even inform the applicants that they would not receive the loans. And COVID-III, unfortunately, came so late that most companies had already acquired standard commercial credit or, unfortunately, failed. And we have also called for the state to prepare for a long-term fight against the disease, where we consider it a fundamental strategic element of massive testing for the occurrence of the disease. We want the state to have a real infrastructure of 30 grand. tests per day to be able to test at local outbreaks, now it's very current in Karvina. We also wanted education to be prepared if it were necessary to prepare online teaching again, so that the methodological support would exist at all, so that it would be at some level. Unfortunately, in the first wave, the Ministry of Education has fallen asleep, and it needs to be fixed as quickly as possible. So much for where we are relatively in agreement with the government, rather, we draw attention to what it has forgotten, how often the Prime Minister urges us to be on the same boat. What we cannot identify with, however, is that when the government asks for a record 500 billion. the state budget deficit and asking us to approve it, so she's not willing to save anywhere, just not a billion, not a hundred million, just not a penny. Nowhere is the government willing to spare on its operations. We do not agree that there is an adequate response from the state to such an unprecedented crisis to say - all the expenditures of the state where it is doing are so effective that we must do them now. We agree that it is necessary to help companies and people as much as possible, we are applying to the amendments that we have tabled, even if it is necessary to say that, of course, if some of them went through, we may not be able to vote on some of them at the same time. So arguing with the simple sum of the proposed measures is not entirely fair. However, the fact that we wanted more help for the citizens and companies affected by the crisis does not mean that we should say that the state should not save anywhere. And in our opinion, the savings are appropriate, e.g. in the field of marketing services, where millions are spent on better PR offices and institutions, which often do not need any PR at all. So that the government has completely resigned to any savings, we consider it unreasonable, and that is why we have proposed a reduction in the total deficit in three variants, in the reduction option of 11 billion, by 16 billion. and by 25 billion. In our opinion, it really is space to reduce the overall manko, it is space to save some money. If the government really needs that reserve at this level, it's able to find at least some savings in its operation. And to think that everyone else is supposed to be saving and just the state doesn't have to save at all is a very bad signal to what is like the right ethics of the treatment of public funds. After all, in a crisis, everyone has to think about whether the way they spend is reasonable or not. And the last comments we make on this are in the form of an accompanying resolution. We propose to speed up the work to unify the collection of personal income tax, social insurance and health insurance, because if this succeeds, the state can save about 4 billion. CZK every year and this is a large long-term savings on the operation of the state. We're pushing the state's clicking budget to better control where our common money goes. [[15.50 hours]] We are pushing for greater transparency in the management of the government's budgetary reserve. We think that the big budgetary measures should be published in advance. And we fully support the proposal of colleagues from the Mayors to make an analogy of the contribution that municipalities receive, because if the regions receive more money, there will be room for investment at local level. We think that the state does not have a patent on reason and that it is better to dispel investment more widely, more into regions and that regions and municipalities can also contribute their investment activity so that the downturn is not so deep, and we do not see any reason for the central government to do all of this. Since the government is not going to accept these changes, we are not going to support this budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u21	The President of the ODS will now perform with priority rights - yes, we have one point of fact here, Minister Schillerová for two minutes and then Vice-President of the House Petr Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u22	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, I'll be quick. I've decided I'd rather react like this now, or I'll forget it eventually. I just think that it is, and I don't want to attack, I just want to be the most relevant, that the savings on operating costs are really a rhetorical figure at the moment. It's, I'll tell you now, who do you think pays off the Antivirus, who pays the compensation bonuses? Who's processing COVIDS? She didn't end up with the one, the two, try to look, she didn't end up so bad. There's 13 billion on two, three, we're analyzing it now, I'm gonna have a video call with the bosses of the biggest banks this week to explain to me how it's going, and they told me the reasons. So these people now who are overloaded, I know you don't like Financial Administration, we deal with this often on the budget committee, but these people, beyond their normal responsibilities, have been developing, like, a compensatory bonus. They paid 750 grand. An honest statement for about 20 billion. Sometime at the end of last week. And, of course, they returned the income tax overpayments, etc. So it's necessary again, or a county sanitation station - should we cut it down? Now, in the deepest recession? No, you don't! What you're saying, IT solution, sorry PR, I may have pushed through, initiated a unified form of government to spend - because every resort, when you look, has a different header, otherwise it just uses it. I want to take systemic steps, not prime-plan steps, which we are basically implementing at the moment of the deepest economic recession. And it saves. They're saving up for business trips, people were at home office, there's some savings. But it won't be tens of billions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u23	Now one more point of fact. He is a Member of Parliament, Mikuláš Ferjenčík. And the Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala, will be prepared. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, I will only respond very briefly to the Minister. It really doesn't seem fair to me to pretend that those people who sit on the counters and pay compensation bonus or ensure people's tracking are the people who propose budget changes and make the big operating savings. This really needs to come from ministers, from deputy ministers, and it really needs to try to make some savings on the operation. I just don't agree with you in principle that in a situation where there's 500 billion. deficit, so the state will say that there is no need to save. I just can't relate to this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u25	One sentence on the facts, please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u26	I agree that there is a need to save money, and I did it in the 2019 budget, I did it in the 2020 budget, I will do it in the 2021 budget. I've already issued a clear signal. But I will not do so at the moment of the deepest economic recession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u27	The Vice-President of the House Petr Fiala will now appear and prepare Mr Jan Hrnčíř with priority rights. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I have spoken both at first and second reading on this adjustment of the budget. I consider what we are going to approve here to be extremely serious with great impact on citizens. And today, I'm going to try to look at what the government has prepared for us from a slightly different angle. Because we, in recent days and weeks as citizens of the Czech Republic, have been confronted with several adverse reports, and most of these reports are actually related to what we are dealing with here today, we are dealing with proposals to change the state budget. And all these reports could be summed up in the statement that the picture of successful economic governance in the Czech Republic, which was created by the government, is falling apart. That, in fact, when we found ourselves, when we left the calm waters, we got into a storm, so it turns out that the ship that the government put us in is leaky, it flows into it. But what's worse, he doesn't seem to have a helm or a captain giving directions. What do I mean? I am referring to these three reports. The first report concerns the astronomical unwarranted debt we're talking about. And let me just remind you that not only the opposition, but also many economists, most economists, consider this debt - not the deficit - to be excessive and unfounded. And we can all imagine what that means. Or we can't, but we can imagine what that means. It means that the government wants to indebt an average family of four with 200,000 crowns, and if we look at what the government is forecasting or what information is coming from the government in terms of an estimate of next year, the debt for this year and next year for a family of four would be some 320 thousand. Crowns. And that is the money that will have to be repaid, and it will have to be repaid with interest. That in itself is a really big problem. But almost an economic crime, I call it, an economic crime, is the fact that the government cannot justify how it will actually handle this huge debt of citizens. And we've heard it here again today and since the Prime Minister. There's really no justification, there's no economic analysis of where the money is going, if all of them are going to run out, what they're going to be, what it's going to be like to have an impact on the economy, we're just not going to know. And the fact is, in those good times, the government wasted economic growth, didn't invest, took a lot of money from consumption. That's what the Supreme Audit Office says, his report. The government supported, fed an expensive, inefficient state. The number of civil servants is increasing. There is an increase in the cost of consumption of the state. Not for the consumption of citizens - for the operation of the state. So probably the only thing left to brag about was the debt to GDP. And that's what the Prime Minister did when he mentioned it. But now the government wants to liquidate, and essentially, even this advantage, and in exchange for that, it offers absolutely nothing. Or at least she can't tell us what the plan is, how it will help the economy, what will happen. That's the first message. The news isn't good. The second report, which arrived to us these days, and these are forecasts of the development of the Czech economy, or the decline of the Czech economy, this year. And you can choose whether it is almost 10 per cent according to the OECD, or 8 per cent according to the European Commission's estimate. But what's important about it and what both of these informations actually have, regardless of whether it's 8 percent or 10 percent of what both of these informations have in common, is that we're going to be part of the worse half of Europe. We will be among the worse half of Europe. So no premiere, no "we're the best again!"as we repeatedly hear here. On the contrary, we are forecasting that we will be part of the worse half of Europe. And these forecasts are undoubtedly coming at a time when both the OECD and the European Commission could include and certainly included in their forecasts how the Czech government stood up to pandemics and economic consequences. But the prognosis is not good, and we have to deal with it at a time when we are thinking about such a huge debt of Czech citizens. [[16.00 hours]] The third report, actually, has already been mentioned to some extent, concerns helping the economy, helping people, helping companies, helping citizens, as has been demonstrated by the government so far. I don't think I need to talk about it much longer. It is quite widely known that government aid is largely still on paper, that only about a negligible part of the money that people are talking about has come out of the real aid. We are both concerned about all of this and about the three reports we've been confronted with in the last few days. The government is facing an economic downturn. It seems - and this shows also the evolution of debt, the development of the state budget deficit, what the government comes up with - that the government has lost control of public finances and the government does not have the ability to deliver aid effectively, as promised, and here it turns out that the government does not even have a plan to revive the economy. And as I say again, we are genuinely concerned about this. And, of course, we're political realists, so we understand that there's a government majority, most for approval in our opinion, a completely irresponsible half-billion-dollar debt, we're not going to do anything about that right now, but we can still offer some solutions. We offer them and we, as the Chamber of Deputies, can help to a certain extent in this matter. That is why, as the Civil Democratic Party, we have come up with two initiatives. The first is that we have proposed a series of resolutions that would, in addition, force the government to put forward some clear plan for what it wants to do before the end of its mandate and how it wants to deal with the situation. Let me just remind you that the accompanying resolutions that we will be voting on in a few moments concern that the Chamber of Deputies would commit the government to do 31. 7. submitted an audit of the State's expenditure. Audit of expenditure by the State to show which expenditure can be reduced. This is also consistent with the debate that has been going on between the Minister of Finance and some Members in the last few minutes. This next resolution concerns the fact that we want the government to do 31. 7. put forward a plan to reduce bureaucratic burdens by at least 10 percent this year, at least 10 percent next year. All I'm saying here is that it's a government commitment. Government commitment. So we just want the government to fulfill what she promised. Furthermore, we want the House to impose on the government a rapid approval of the abolition of the supergross wage. The proposal has been waiting here in the Chamber of Deputies since 8. 8. 2018. We keep hearing promises that it might be, and when it will be, we don't know, but most importantly, it's still postponed. This could help people. Another accompanying resolution would order the government to present some concept of pension reform by the end of this year. Of course, this is also closely related to the sustainability of public finances. By the way, this is what the government promised. And by the end of this year, the last accompanying resolution would order the government to submit some proposal for a reform of taxes and levies that will simplify the tax system and that would effectively help small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, leaving more money to the people. Of course, I'm asking you again, I did it at first and second reading, I'm asking for your support now. I think that's what you want from the government, and in the end, it's mostly things that the government has signed up to in the past or committed itself to them, because that half-billion dollar debt really changes everything. And it is our duty to force the government to put all the loopholes in that ship that is now flowing into to simply plug them in, or at least try to do so, and to put forward a plan to help solve the weak spots that the Czech economy is showing today. We have put forward the second initiative today, and I will not discuss it in more detail here. We have prepared something that we call a bailout ring for the Czech economy, a package of tax levy aid for nine changes to laws that ensure that money remains for people, companies, entrepreneurs, those who really need the money, so we are throwing a bailout ring to the Czech economy and Czech citizens to put the Czech Republic on its feet, and from that government proposal, our proposal for tax relief is actually different by leaving 132 billions for citizens. The crowns that will really help them, and the government wants to blow up 500 billion. We have a specific plan here that lets people have the money. But the Civil Democratic Party does not want and cannot support such a huge increase in the Czech Republic's debt, I will say it differently, the debt of every citizen of the Czech Republic, when it is not known how this money will help people to start the Czech economy. As I said before, we consider such an increase in debt to be an economic crime to which all citizens of the Czech Republic will pay in the future. That is why this increase in debt will not be supported by the Civil Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u29	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Let's keep going. Now I have here, with the factual remark of Minister Schillerová, and then priority rights will continue. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u30	Thank you. I'm gonna react fast because I don't want to keep it to the end because I'd forget. Mr President, the OECD has indeed predicted a decline in the Czech Republic minus 9.6% of GDP. That's right, there's no doubt about it. On the other hand, if we are a highly open economy, which is very linked to supplier-customer relations with foreign countries, and this is where they founded 30 years ago, this economic policy, our predecessors, it is logical that the decline will be worse and the prediction could be worse. I can't believe you're doing this tonight. We're just gonna actually make that prediction in early September. But if you were looking at those OECD charts, the OECD also said in second breath that growth in 2021 predicts plus 7.1. I can't even confirm it right now or deny it. I don't have enough numbers, we don't have - experts from the Ministry of Finance, the Czech Statistical Office and also from abroad and from around, but the OECD has put other graphs there. There's not enough of them to talk about. There's talk of the first one. It has put a graph of the development of unemployment in individual OECD countries, it has put the development of public finances in individual OECD countries, and it has given a level of debt to individual OECD countries, and it has stated that unemployment is predicted for 2020, and I cannot believe it; just when we say it, we have to correct all these graphs, unemployment, they said it will be the lowest of OECD countries, public finances will be the fourth healthiest - even with the debt ratio, all countries have the debt ratio, but we are based on some very low base, sorry, public finances, and the debt ratio will be the third lowest. So by actually being in that position before the pandemic, at such a low position, and even after the level of debt that is the same in the individual OECD countries in this case, we are de facto staying in the same position. [[Time warning]] And that's what needs to be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u31	Thank you. And now, with priority rights, with the SPD's opinion, Mr. Hrnčíř. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u32	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to express myself briefly, virtually. express the SPD's position to the club. We have this deficit, which is unprecedented in the history of the Czech Republic of 500 billion. The crown, we just can't support it. And I'll try to explain briefly why. We believe that every good farmer, if income is reduced, faces a crisis, is looking for savings, tries to cut unnecessary expenses, and only then tries to have an event. to borrow money and invest out of these problems. It is necessary to realize that each debt will also have to be repaid one day. And it's already shown this year that we are paying 230 billion for previously issued bonds this year. Crowns. That means we're not talking about 500 billion here. debt, but 730 billion. debt. We have had five years of unprecedented economic growth in the history of the Czech Republic. You spared nothing. Two years in a row, excesses in a retirement account, almost 20 billion, no savings, everything's been eaten. [[16.10 hours]] I don't believe you would ever be able to pay such astronomical debts in the future. After approval of the deficit of 500 billion. will be a state debt of 2,120 billion. And you've approved here until 2027 that you can essentially indebt the Republic to four percent of GDP every year. Yes, you say we have low debt, that's true. But at this rate, of course, we're going to get to that magical limit of 60 percent of GDP quite early, because we can also expect GDP to decrease when economic performance is falling. And if I marry, the YES movement with the ČSSD has been in government since 2013. During that time, the number of civil servants increased by 55,000. Yes, we often hear, they're policemen, they're teachers and so on. But in 2000, for example, we had about 1,000 less teachers than we did in primary schools, but we had 300,000 more pupils. It must be realized that thousands of assistants have requested inclusion. That's another billion, it's costing us six billion. If we take, for example, neighbouring Austria, almost 40 percent less civil servants, fewer policemen, and so on. That means, of course, the savings can be found in the budget, and not that they can't. And they could be found quite quickly, but the willingness isn't here. That is why we simply cannot support such a budget because we do not want to bankrupt the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u33	Thank you. Vice-President Okamura is now under priority. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this proposal for astronomical debt of CZK half a trillion, this means record debt in the history of the Czech Republic, so the government coalition of the ANO, ČSSD and KSČM movement has secured the majority for approval. So, unfortunately, this debate has been completely formal since the beginning, and unfortunately without any practical impact on the problem of government-sponsored astronomical debt of the Czech Republic, which we are discussing here. But what did not happen here at all, neither from the Minister's mouth nor from the other Members' mouth, is what the SPD has been pointing out all along. That is, if unnecessary spending in the state budget is cut, which doesn't bring anything to decent and working people, we don't have to sit here at all, because we wouldn't have to indebt the Czech Republic for the next 200 billion. Crowns. And that is crucial, and that is what the SPD says here - instead of indebting the Czech Republic from those approved 300 billion. CZK 500 billion on the proposed 500 billion, that's 200 billion. more, let's cut unnecessary expenditure in the state budget at the rate of 200 billion. Crowns. And that is exactly the savings package that the SPD has introduced and the government is refusing to accept. We have proposed to cut in the budget, for example, those currently unnecessary purchases of expensive foreign military technology. Only those combat vehicles, that's over 50 billion. Crowns. Those old U.S. helicopters are 17 billion. CZK including VAT. So that's almost 100 billion. The crown itself. These purchases can at least be postponed because they just need decent and working people right now, businessmen, businesses, families with children, seniors, disabled people, now they need money to support. We don't need expensive foreign military technology now. Furthermore, we have introduced in our austerity package, which the government refuses to reduce, best cancel, but since the European Union has dictated it to us, it cannot be completely abolished now, so these are the payments to the solar barons. Although the government has said something based on our pressure to negotiate with the European Union, it has then given up. There goes 40 billion. crowns a year. Furthermore, we propose to reduce the contributions to the European Union, because it does not really bring anything to anybody right now. We need money for our people. We also propose to abolish inclusion in education, which is 6 billion. per year. And this bill from the SPD pen is already here in the House, so all you have to do is grab it. But the government didn't do it. On the contrary, it supports inclusion in education. It completely destroys Czech education. This is what the government of the ANO, CSSD and KDU-ČSL movement pushed through here in the last parliamentary term. Furthermore, we propose to reduce payments to so-called political non-profit organisations. This means, these are those who promote migration here, multi-cultures, the European Union is promoted for state money, positive discrimination and such nonsense. Of course, we support nonprofit organizations that take care of old people, elderly people, needy ones, children. You're okay. Furthermore, we propose to end the abuse of doses that are inadaptable. This law also lies here from the SPD pen, even passed the first reading. So all we have to do is push him, and we have more savings in the state budget, and we could move the money to decent and working people. And even the inadaptables can adapt logically if they want something from the state. And so on. And if the government accepted our complete package of cuts - and our package of cuts is about 200 billion. CZK, which the government here is proposing to increase the debt of the Czech Republic - so we would not have to indebt the Czech Republic here at all. And I am glad that, in essence, with an identical proposal after we introduced this austerity package, President Miloš Zeman came forward with the same comment, who exactly said that, at this level, even a little larger, the savings can be made exactly in that sense. So the government of YES, ČSSD and KSČM not only does not want to cut the unnecessary expenditure here - not to mention the need to make a stop at the cost of state administration, which the government does not want - but even the president, who was elected by most of the Czech Republic, has basically a similar view as we do, but the government also rejects it. So we're not alone in that opinion. So we have also tabled the specific amendments as the SPD movement, because of course we are not just talking, but we are presenting concrete actions, so today we will also be voting on our amendments. We have just here - we even suggested it to be compromise. So we propose to start by cutting off half the money for inclusion in education, even though here is our proposal for a complete reduction of inclusion in education, as I was saying. But that's under another law. We also propose to cut 10 billion. those arms contracts that go abroad. I would still understand if these were arms contracts for Czech companies in the Czech Republic, so that is an economically supportive measure. Of course, because unemployment is increasing now, so those purchases of bulletproof vests at the Czech company, I understand that, because we support it when state money is being poured back into Czech companies, which employ taxes in the Czech Republic and employ Czech citizens, it is a support measure. It's okay, on the contrary. But those purchases of that expensive weaponry, they're purchases in Germany and abroad, so huge tens of billions are going to pour into the country essentially to support a completely different economy, and we're going to lose that money instead of giving it to our people. That's a really incredible policy that the government is doing here. It's totally against our citizens. There's only one money. We must treat this with proper care and have the right priorities. This means supporting Czech citizens, the Czech economy. We also propose 23.5 billion. reduce the contributions to the budget of the European Union. And we have even put these proposals in compromise at this time - we would, of course, like to cut it completely - and we want to move the money to increase financial support for disabled people. Further increase the contribution to the care of disabled and disabled fellow citizens. We also propose this in the context of another of our bills. Furthermore, we would also like to increase salaries for workers in social services, because they are undervalued in the long term. We're also proposing 27 billion here. To cut the money off to the solar barons. From our point of view, we've done it compromisely, even if it's over 40 billion. The koruna a year, because we think it should at least be for negotiation. The SPD has 20 Members out of 200, so, of course, we are presenting compromise options, even though our ideal option would, of course, be much stricter. [[16.20 hours]] We also propose to cut 353 miles. plus 70 miles. political non-profit organisations operating abroad. That doesn't mean anything to the Czech Republic right now. I don't know, our MP Kobza pointed it out. There's money in this money to support vintners somewhere in Georgia and Moldova. So perhaps the government is joking that in this situation Czech money from the Czech budget is heading in this direction, and we are simply proposing to cross it out, now we have to take care of our people. And what we're proposing is that we have one more amendment to reduce the money to the solar barons. So, of course, we are clearly saying that the SPD will not support this astronomical debt, this astronomical deficit of half a billion crowns, unless the government does at least make some of our proposed cuts to completely unnecessary spending, which bring nothing to decent and working citizens. Moreover, our amendments will be voted on today, so we will, of course, decide accordingly, but according to the way this was done in the Economic Committee, our proposals do not have a great chance, so it does not look quite good from this point of view for decent and working citizens in the Czech Republic. Why the record deficit budget is really bad and economically destructive, it has not only been heard from our mouth many times - I mean that it is also mentioned by renowned economists from the National Economic Council. But the government remains deaf and blind. The arguments are basically what we call here. After all, unnecessary expenses can be cut, and the government does not want to do so, spending that brings nothing decent and working people, and it prefers astronomical debt. For us, the crucial thing is that we really have no idea where the money will go, which all citizens of our country and their children will pay back for decades. The government has not specified this for certain items in the order of billions of crowns, which also seems very irresponsible to me. So the government is asking us to increase our debt, a record amount in our country's history. Many of us remember the so-called. transformation in the 1990s. That's when the government asked the citizens to tighten their belts. Unfortunately, citizens were at the time teasing their belts in a situation where the government was also managing record assets for today, which it had stolen, so while the simple people tightened their belts, selected elite groups were discussing cheap state property without benefiting citizens. Stealing a country in the 1990s has taken people's faith in the state and willing to sacrifice themselves for it. That is why it is impossible today to ask people to tighten their belts. And it has logic. I fully understand citizens. But that's why, unfortunately, the government, instead of cutting back on the unnecessary expenses, like sheep to rip off the government, remains a citizen again, even though the government is not telling it openly today. On the contrary, the government's record deficit - and what I've been listening to here from Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, so the government is trying to create an impression with that deficit, by debt that it wants to give citizens something that it wants to give to citizens. And indeed, the government's comment on the budget emphasizes: we put money there, we give money to entrepreneurs, we give culture, we give health care. Well, we all agree with that in the SPD. We're just saying this thing, there's no need to indebt about that 200 billion, because the money in the budget is when we cut unnecessary expenses. So the result would be the same, but without the debt of the Czech Republic. That's basically the fundamental contradiction with what the YES movement says, Madam Secretary and Prime Minister. So the secretary has already applied for a factual remark from me, but I hope you won't say that we don't want to put money in health care elsewhere. We say ano, but in a different form, the one I'm talking about. And you'd rather be in debt than cut unnecessary expenses. Because they may be afraid of the European Union's government. I get that. Because if the money had been reduced to solar barons, etc., of course, and those political nonprofits, etc., they would of course start yelling at you from the EU and, of course, you would be in this difficult dilemma, what now, whether to defend the interests of the EU or defend national interest. We don't have a dilemma in the SPD. We defend the purely national interest of citizens of the Czech Republic. And what Brussels wants to dictate here doesn't exactly burn us. So as for the debt, ladies and gentlemen, respectable citizens, taxpayers, let's first of all say quite frankly that the government is giving nothing, because you, citizens, again give money. The government is only making record debt to your account, and they intend to redistribute your money. And in future years, we will have to start saving and collecting money from the citizens to pay off the debt. So everything that is being distributed or invested today will be paid by us or our children from our taxes, which will be shown by the fact that the money for raising pensions will not be adequate, which is what the Prime Minister has already announced that pensions will not increase as they might increase. But they could increase if the government made the cuts I was talking about. They could go up. And that's the contradiction that the YES movement says, and what we say, and what the Government of the YES, the ČSSD and the KSČM says. Furthermore, we have long said that in a time of crisis, the state should invest and, above all, create new sources of income. Unlike so-called The pseudoconservative parties are not formalistic. We're not formalistic. Yes, money will help move the economy. However, several factors are absolutely essential. Just as I say, first of all, the government should start with it and look for resources in those savings of unnecessary spending. And when I looked at it, the government didn't have a massive savings program, for example. We haven't heard of it. The second thing is to have a proper investment plan. And according to our court, these investments should go not only to compensation for the affected companies and citizens and to infrastructure building, but also to projects that would generate revenue for the state. You need to be brave in this. I can imagine that instead of selling a license to the fourth telecommunications operator, the state will create and provide cheap telecommunications services, while collecting e.g. from commercial entities some profit into the state budget. And it's nothing, it's no socialism, it's no utopian ideas, because in the world's most advanced economies, the world's most advanced countries, on the contrary, the strategic companies, the strategic sectors, own the state. The strategic monopoly industry. Only politicians here in the 1990s and later in the past, mainly about the ODS, ČSSD and KDU-ČSL establishment, as well as just at municipal level and at other levels they just let these strategic businesses privatize and basically let it be stolen, and first of all, if someone asks for example what I'm talking about, it's water, for example. Because the way Czech water was stolen, it's really the top. And for years, I have sought to deprivatize myself back into the hands of cities and municipalities. Originally the cities and municipalities were afraid, now it is happening, so I am glad that the courage of many cities and municipalities found it and deprivatized it back into the hands of cities and municipalities. And again, it's no socialism. For example, in Berlin, Germany, they did this and immediately reduced the people's water and gluttony, because there is no need to generate the over-the-counter profit that goes to France today and elsewhere abroad. So you need to be brave about this. After all, a good example is Budějovický Budvar, a state enterprise. As far as income is concerned, I would also expect some analysis of the potential income that foreign companies are collecting today. A typical example could be the legal health insurance of foreigners or accident insurance of employers. These are the money that is going on today, quite incomprehensiblely, mostly through foreign insurance companies that could - and this income, this money could become the income of the state, as it once was. I do not understand why the state, why the government will not take measures to take this legal insurance to go to the state, to the state entity. Why they earn billions on this insurance, they collect billions of foreign insurance companies represented in the Czech Republic. That's totally unbelievable. And I would expect that from a government that has such a huge system of officials and has just ministers and has a really comfortable majority here in the House, so hopefully these analyses, these well-known facts are clear, so these savings should have been made and the money could have flowed into the state budget without any problems. [[16.30 hours]] Or is it fear, fear of multinational corporations exerting pressure on the government in the form of the European Union? Yeah, I'm sure he's got a point. But the SPD isn't afraid. SPD, if it were part of a government constellation, we'd be doing exactly the steps I'm talking about, and we'd be pushing them. So, in the overall amount of view, I think, of course, that deficit level is a big problem, because, as we have no idea for a large part of the money or for a substantial amount of money, what and how and where it will actually be spent and how the money will benefit. Just the main objective of this deficit budget should be to promote economic growth, but that, from what is presented here, is the combination of how it is compiled, how I am trying to explain here, as I explained, it simply does not follow. And since the debt is really astronomical, citizens simply have the right to know why and what the government is going to spend on, and especially how it intends to pay back the debt, which is another area that has not been sufficiently discussed here. And I would really be in this historically astronomical half-billion-dollar debt - it's always been here in the House, I mean, I'm not in politics as long as many people here, but it always happens every year that after us, the flood. There's an election coming up, they're just handing out, if possible, all kinds of money, but then there's actually another government coming, and suddenly the money's basically not, and everybody's making excuses, and then we're arguing. At the same time, I made it clear to the SPD's specific proposal on how to save money in the state budget without touching decent and working people. On the contrary, to them we would strengthen the supply of money. It is important to emphasise this to the decent and the workers. So, basically, the government isn't talking about how to pay off the debt after all. That means the government's plan is that what it gives to companies and people with one hand, it's gonna take away from them in the years to come. And that's what needs to be said. While, as I say here in my performance on behalf of the SPD, it can easily be regrouped so that it doesn't happen so that people get the money and we don't have to take it from them again in the future. So thank you for your attention, and I think I've explained the SPD's view enough.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u35	Thank you. There are two factual points, the first to be made by Minister Schillerová, then by Mr Ferjenčík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u36	Then I will be very brief, Mr Okamura. As regards the suspension of payments by the European Union, I would like to note that the Czech Republic... [[Voice from the O.R. I would ask you not to shout.]] The Czech Republic is a so-called net beneficiary, and at least this seven-year period that is now ahead of us will be. This means that it receives more money from the European Union than it pays. And if we deliberately reduce it, because it corresponds to some calculation framework, we will of course stop the payments we receive from the European Union, and we will damage all, the whole Czech Republic, the whole Czech economy, all citizens. So I'd just like to point out that it's just not possible. We have entered the European Union once, committed ourselves to respecting its laws, they are above national law, and we must respect that. And I'm stressing - we're clean recipients, so we're getting more than we're paying. The balance was probably some 750 billion by the end of the year. plus. And as for the solar barons, yes, there is no contradiction at all, even I think my fellow government colleague has submitted, it has been about six weeks now, for the government, the government has approved a rather substantial reduction in the subsidies to so-called. solar barons, it lies here in the Chamber of Deputies, and I think it is only a question of when it will be included in the hearing. Well, pensions, we never said -- I didn't really get it -- that pensions would go down. The pensions will grow, waiting for August's valorization, which will be very large, and of course the pensions will grow. So I didn't quite understand your point that pensions should grow less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u37	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Ferjenčík with a point of fact, then Vice-President Okamura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I want to respond to the SPD proposals and explain why we cannot vote for some of them. There is a problem with the fact that you, through Mr President, are proposing that it intervene unilaterally in the budget, in order to reduce the budget chapters, but without the amendment of relevant laws or international treaties. It is not possible to unilaterally stop paying the European Union without negotiating with them that we will therefore pay less money. So the first thing we need to do is negotiate that we pay less, and then we probably get less. I don't have a problem with that myself, but it's not possible to cut the money in that budget with the fact that contracts don't apply to us now. On the contrary, this would lead to the fact that they would either stop paying for our projects or we would pay for it on interest. Neither is definitely beneficial for Czech citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u39	Thank you. And now, with a factual remark, Vice-President Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u40	Then to Secretary Schillerová. We didn't listen to each other twice, and once half the information fell. First of all, I didn't say it wasn't for retirement. I said that it would not be for such an increase that could be done if SPD proposals were implemented. I think everyone heard it, even the audience on Czech TV, so Madam Secretary, if you please note what I said. And I did not say cut EU money, which I would like to do, but I said lower. So again, Madam Secretary, you haven't told the truth twice in your performance, you've adjusted it in some more radical way. So please, if you take notes, there's a pencil and paper, I see. And as for the money from the European Union, Madam Secretary, don't fool people. After all, according to the 2004 European Commission's very estimate, I suspect that European Union regulation itself - it is an older date, but it is plus minus similar, this is not even the number - but that is how EU regulation costs us, each member country, 4 percent of GDP, they said, which would represent last year, or, on average, 200 billions per year in the Czech Republic. CZK and from the European Union in the last 14 years we have received subsidies of about 800 billion. CZK, but the cost of European regulation reached 2 456 billion. This means that you will say only the subsidies, how much money is sent there from Czech citizens' money and how much comes in the form of subsidies, but you will not include any more costs that cost hugely, even those Czech companies, when they implement various regulations, regulations, directives and so on. So you need to bring that complex view to it. Plus, there's one more thing. Well, I only have two seconds left. If there's gonna be a reaction, I'm gonna turn myself in one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u41	Yes, the response will be, Mr Ferjenčík will respond with a point of fact, it seems necessary to compare the various numbers with the correct numbers. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and very briefly the reaction to my previous speaker's words. You say regulation and you mix some billions there, but if we have a cleaner air here, because according to the standards that we have adopted together in the European Union, there are stricter pollution conditions, that is a good thing for our citizens. We want them to have cleaner air. And to call it bad European regulation, and to count some housenumer there is really unfair argument.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u43	Thank you and will respond to Vice-President Okamura with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u44	Well, I'm just gonna keep responding to the secretary, 'cause it's only been real for two minutes. So, as far as subsidies go, you're not exactly telling the truth, because the subsidies... The European Union announces some subsidy programmes, but if you ask the mayors of cities and municipalities and ask if there is a cycle path, e.g. The cycle path was really their priority if they got the money and it wasn't the program on the cycle path, but they could use it according to their decision, so the vast majority of cities and municipalities, respectively. They'll all say that if they got the money directly from the Czech budget, they'd better fix the pavement, make a school cafeteria, renovate the retirement home, do public lighting, sewerage. But since the European Union actually determines a cycle path from Brussels, or you have determined it here, and the European Union puts it on the bike paths, they actually have to drain the money for the project, they literally have to, because when the mayors talk to each other, they get under pressure: you haven't exhausted, they used up in the neighboring village, etc. etc. So they're asking for a grant on the bike path. [[16.40 hours]] And there's co-financing for the subsidies from the city's budget and the community's. So, on the other hand, it's exhausting the subsidies in the direction that the money is exhausting in the direction that the cities and municipalities would normally not have exhausted if they could have essentially determined it themselves without the purpose. So it's also a very negative effect. It also wears out, these are the overpriced benches, those are the lookout towers in the valley in the South Moravian region, from which you can't see anything at all. Just to keep the mayors from being criticized out of nowhere. This nonsense! That means, don't say that we're clean payers here, when you know for yourself economically, sorry, beneficiaries, you know economically that this needs to be analysed much deeper, and you also need to look at the effectiveness of the subsidies, and whether it really goes to those projects that are a priority, notabene, when it's even burdened by the state by the co-financing. And I've got about three seconds, so I'd like to sign up one more time to continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u45	You may have priority rights at this time, if necessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u46	And one more amendment. For example, when I talked to the school principals back then about the grant program Computer to schools, they told me that they had about a million dollars in computer classrooms, it was a European Union project, and only 400 thousand went from it to the classroom equipment itself. Crowns. The rest about 600 thousand. CZK was at the request of the subsidy, control of the subsidy and promotion of the subsidy. It's always the adverts in the paper, etc., that it's for the EU project. So once again, if the money were left alone in the Czech Republic, the classroom would cost 400 thousand, but since it was a subsidy from the EU, we got a million and 600 thousand. Thrown away for nothing. This means, please, that when someone defends how good European subsidies are for us, as we are net beneficiaries, so please tell the truth, and let us also give the facts about the purpose of the subsidy and also about the priority of the subsidy and how much money goes on the matter itself and how much money goes on as the EU commands us in the projects, that is to say, a request for subsidies, promotion of subsidies and control of subsidies. And as you know, the request is often so complicated that even the subsidies are parasitic by companies that handle the subsidies, there were a number of problems with the corruption background. And I'm basically not even talking about it, because that's what the ROP case of the Northwest, which concerns ODS and ČSSD politicians, is about the corruption environment, which is going to be the next thing I can do about the subsidies. And the last thing that's needed, and I would certainly like to point it out when you say that we're a net beneficiary, I hope I made it clear that it's different in that situation, and the government never wants to present that analysis, which means how much of that money really went on to buy things itself, and how much of that money was there for the grant application, the promotion of the subsidy, and the control of the subsidy. Only this distribution would show the amount in a completely different light, and here the current governments, because they are for the Brussels governments, so they are essentially hiding it or simply not having it. But then you have to tell yourself that only part of the grant goes to buying things itself. But what needs to be said is that the subsidies themselves don't actually flow often to a normal citizen, golf courses stood up for the subsidies, hotels stood up to billionaires, we basically have the subsidies in the immediate vicinity, we see that, so they actually go to big businessmen. They're billions of subsidies. But the reality is, instead of making new teeth for our low-income citizen, or for a citizen, people don't even have the teeth, they don't have the dentures, they go without teeth, because they don't have the money. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] I walk in events - somebody's laughing at it. Members of the YES movement are laughing over there. But I go out every week with citizens, and I see when they talk to me, how many normal, ordinary working citizens can't even afford new teeth. Even a moment ago, a citizen from the Ústí Region wrote to me to see if I could help make sure there was even a dentist she could sign up for in Ústí nad Labem or in the area.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u47	Vice-President, I know you won't agree with me, but we're still discussing the state budget, so if we could just get back to the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u48	So, I know you're the expert on that, that you're always directing the debaters, you've already turned off the microphone in the past, not me, but I just wanted to say one thing that when you talk about how great the EU is, but instead of redirecting the money to those really decent and working people who just don't even have the basic health care type of dental care, that budget basically gives the money from subsidies to different billionaires, for example, rape and such matters. So please, when you say it complexly, or when you say I'm wrong here, I would expect us to discuss it a little more comprehensively, the benefits, the economic advantages and the disadvantages of the flow of the money here and there. So that, from my perspective, is probably an explanation, as we see it, and I think it is clear that it is not as black and white as the EU's supporters are trying to present here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u49	Thank you. I have two factual points here. Mr Kalousek, then President Benešík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u50	Thank you. I am very sorry for the subject, but I still have to make a brief remark on my previous speaker through Mr President. President Okamura, when the EU relationship is to be put into balance - you count the cost of regulation for Czech companies, it is simply an unfair argument. It's demagogy. The single market requires some common rules. I, too, would like to forgive some of the regulations, but we simply have to respect the common rules that we negotiate together. First of all. But secondly, can you imagine - you do as a businessman - the costs that Czech exporters would have on the European market if they were to supply there as third-world companies? First, they would have to comply with the regulation of the single European market, and secondly, they would have to overcome incredible administrative and often fiscal barriers. These costs would be higher in order than we have as participants in the common European market. Please don't confuse the audience, don't confuse the public with such demagogy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u51	Thank you. And now, Mr. Benešík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u52	Thank you for the floor. Just a little while, maybe I've already said that. The net position of the Czech Republic after deduction of the EU contribution - last year was almost 80 billion. I think the number speaks for itself. As the money is being used, I'll say it as the former mayor and still the deputy in my homepage. I was worried about four years in a time of crisis, with the municipal budget left to invest, say, six, seven, sometimes eight miles. Crowns. We invested 111 miles. CZK, the vast majority of it from the EU fund. We built a water treatment plant, built a sewage treatment plant, reduced dust, which is an environmental issue. We built a square in the local part of Květná, where there are parking spaces, wheelchair access, for example to the health centre. From soft projects that are often criticized here, teaching English at first degree, 1st to 3rd grade, which is not compulsory, and a common basic art school, cross-border project with Moravian Liesková in Slovakia. These are projects that she implemented at the time of my concern, the village of Strání. I do not think that we would have achieved such resources if we were not in the EU. That's practice, that's reality, that's not just bullshit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u53	Thank you. Vice-President Okamura will respond with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u54	So, ladies and gentlemen, I was disappointed by Mr Kalousek, because as former Minister of Finance, I would have thought he knew something about international trade when the EU was here. So he says how difficult the conditions of the Czech Republic would be for the EU market. Then he probably forgot that there's a large portion of the goods that you might have at home, they're made in China. On the contrary, China has a very simplified market for the European Union. I'm gonna break it down a little bit, at least in that one minute. On the contrary, despite repeated pressure, the EU is subject to pressure from China and instead of ensuring that Chinese producers have to produce their goods under the same conditions as EU producers, so it is not able to ensure and is subject to Chinese pressure. This means our producers are not able, European producers, to compete with Chinese producers, because it is simply cheaper to produce Chinese goods. But it's not just about the cost of the labor force. This is because they do not have to comply with the same strict parameters that are required on EU products. So it's exactly the opposite of what Minister Kalousek says here. It's exactly the opposite! It is the European Union that damages Czech producers by not being able to compete with imports from China that are not in the EU. [[16.50 hours]] Of course, I am not talking about the EFTA organization, which is a member of Switzerland, Norway or Liechtenstein, and trades without any problems with the EU. Yes, part of its regulations must be adopted there, not all of them, but a minority of those European regulations are adopted. And, of course, the market access is smooth. And, by the way, the European Union is, of course, a signatory of the EFTA, so it is also our proposal and future for the Czech Republic that it is not a problem to proceed in this way. So no one has to worry that we can't do business. We will always trade, whether we are in the European Union or not, and this trade will be done without any problems.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u55	Finally, Mr Benešík came forward with a factual remark, so he will be given the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u56	Quite a major correction in respect of EFTA, that is, Switzerland, Norway and, for example, Liechtenstein, so it is not true that a smaller part. As far as the common market is concerned, those countries, if they want to trade, must accept everything in that segment, otherwise they simply cannot trade. They have no influence on what the legislation looks like, they have no influence on the standardization, and if they want to do business in that segment, they have to accept everything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u57	Thank you. And at this point, we have exhausted the factual points, so President Rakušan will finally have priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, absent Prime Minister, I will now return this discussion to the budget, to the deficit we are discussing today, even if I, as the former mayor, could tell you about the many beautiful projects that we have financed in our city from the European Union's resources to the benefit of the citizens of our city. The Prime Minister spoke today at the beginning of his speech saying that it is normal that he criticizes the opposition. I'm glad we have that option. I also believe that it is normal for the government to praise itself. Now the big question is what the government should be praised for at this point. If this is the health aspect of the crisis, we will discuss it tomorrow at an emergency meeting, and we will ask if the merits that the epidemic has not spread so much are really the merits of our government, and the current failures of local outbreaks are the fault of hygienists, but we will know that tomorrow. Today, we are discussing the economic aspect of the entire crisis that has happened to us. We're talking about a record half-billion-dollar deficit in our budget. And I dare say that from an economic point of view, the government is not optimally managing the crisis. We heard from the Prime Minister that we are a creative nation. We are, and thank God for that. Thank God that we survived the crisis at all levels because of creative people, as we survived it, that in times of lack of medical equipment, our people were able to make their own drapes and so on, but let's see how creative entrepreneurs were, that they were trying to find such forms of business that are possible even in quarantine. Let's see how creative schools in the Czech Republic were, teachers, how many times they moved on to the twenty-first century because of the crisis. How Czech scientists and Czech companies succeeded, which were very quickly able to produce the various materials that were needed at the time. Unfortunately, they didn't always get the government to hear that they were ready to help her at that difficult moment. Furthermore, the Prime Minister said that none of us were prepared for the crisis. He's right. In this global dimension, no one could have been prepared for such a crisis, and we have never really experienced such a crisis here. But there's one big "but." The Czech Republic could certainly not be prepared to shut down the entire economy for some time, but it could be prepared for the economy to emerge from the growth phase, from the boom phase simply to worse times and periods. And that's just not what our government under the leadership of the YES movement was preparing for. We've had deficit budgets in our rich times. We have not prepared any major investment events in these rich times and what the Prime Minister called the big investment plan of the Czech Government, so that is what we call a project stack in municipalities and cities, something that is collected, many mayors are still wondering where their projects came from, that they do not even want the project in their communities. The others tell me that no one asked them about a project in their community, and the Prime Minister was dating this mysterious investment plan for quite a long time before he introduced it to us, and we were quite disappointed. We don't listen to experts. Mrs Eva Zamrazilová made critical comments on the amount of the deficit, on the structure of the deficit, as presented by the government. And how did the Prime Minister react? In your usual way. He said Mrs. Zamrazilová only wants to make herself visible. Please, an expert like Eva Zamrazilová really doesn't need to be visible. She wanted to really point out that the government is simply not doing what it does for the benefit of the people in our country. But the Prime Minister responds to anyone who criticizes him in this way - he just wants to make himself visible - and he's running his anti-babish campaign. What was forgotten from the beginning was help for the regions. Remember that war we fought here about compensation for cities and municipalities. Remember the words of Prime Minister Babiš, who looked in our direction in the Chamber of Deputies and said to us: you are mere lobbyists for cities and municipalities, think of citizens in the Czech Republic - and we have been working hard to explain to him that when cities and municipalities in the Czech Republic have finance, the investment carousel will just spin naturally. The government understood later. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček even spoke of this as a fundamental economic stimulus. We were happy for it, of course, but the government forgot about the edges. The county does not receive any compensatory bonus. We propose that it be at least 500 crowns per head. Let us remember that the losses that go beyond the regions in the Czech Republic are about 13 billion at this time. Crowns. This is no longer a simple investment of regions, and I want to say that regions, unlike imaginary government projects, have investment events prepared, as do cities and municipalities. Thus investment can be supported. Let's leave the money in cities and municipalities, let's give it to the regions, let's also give them the compensation bonus, and then you'll see that we can invest out of the crisis. But not by putting together some half-billion-dollar deficit where a huge amount of finance isn't intended for anything precise, and we're just waiting for what it might be useful for, but those big investment projects aren't ready. Give us a concrete answer on what will be the major structural investment projects that the government has prepared for this year. We're talking about the 2020 budget. The economy can be supported locally, as I have discussed, by cities, municipalities, regions, and it can be supported structurally, systematically. To prepare such matters that will help the future of the Czech Republic, whether it is a pension reform that is postponed, let it be a reform of our health system, but above all the government in crisis - and here, I hope, I agree with the Minister - must aim to reduce uncertainty. Uncertainty in the entire segment of the economy, because in the opinion of renowned economists, it is precisely what reduces economic performance as a result. Unpredictability, unexpectedness of what is about to happen. And how does the government reduce that? If they create a half-billion-dollar deficit - why not 490, why not 510, we've gotten a nice round - that just gives the government a huge amount of room to work with money that they have no idea where they're going yet. That is why we have also proposed, as starosta and independent, that the deficit be at most 400 billion at this time. CZK and we worked on what economic data in the Czech Republic look like so far. We want to reduce uncertainty by targeting funds for the future, investment, structure, and not some blank cheque that we simply cannot sign and sign to the government in the form of this half-billion-dollar deficit. Support projects for the economy, how do they work? Madam Secretary says the covide won't be so bad after all. Ask the businessmen. I can give you a number of examples of people from the business community who were behind me in the parliamentary office, talking about the outrageous administration, about the technological unpreparedness of the state to deal with such an uprising of requests, just the lack of modernisation, the digitalisation that the government has been talking about all along, but it hasn't actually done anything vital for her during the entire term of office. Yes, what worked was a cursarbeit project. And remember that we also supported him from the start as an opposition, and we also made our own proposals to him, which, for example, later on with some delay, as is customary, you accepted. [[17,00 hours]] How does the government react to the opposition's amendments? He's turning them down. But now remember, Madam Secretary, that at that moment, when you reject them, it will be entirely, but entirely responsible only for your government's development of the economy that will come, for the fact that 1,200,000 people are now objectively in a situation where their jobs are threatened. You will be responsible for the fact that there are no specific and clear employment projects that we have proposed for these people in the budget. At the same time, the government did not introduce any system of own savings. If he wants people in the Czech Republic to save money, he wants each of us, every individual, to set a simple and simple example at the beginning. The government has no tendency to reduce the bureaucratic burden that there is for residents in the Czech Republic. The support projects it is preparing may be extremely, but extremely complex, with one exception. And the government should also clearly tell entrepreneurs how it will look about the situation in the Czech Republic, what is the prediction of what will happen to the economy if, God forbid, a second wave of pandemics really came in autumn. madame Pompadour whispered to Ludvík XV that he should not be burdened with how it would end up after him or get sick because of the flood after us. He's a nice historical bonmot, but unfortunately, I have a feeling we have a similar message here whispering to us by Secretary Schillerová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u59	Thank you. And now, with a point of fact, Vice-President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I would respond to the previous speaker, Mr Benešík of KDU-ČSL, who has failed me here as chairman of the European Committee because he has told a lie. He said that the members of the EFTA must implement 100 per cent of the European Union's regulations. It's a lie. And I am surprised that such an incompetent person is the chair of the European Committee in the House. Because, as the British MEP on behalf of the Conservative Party, Daniel Hannan pointed out, and I am already aware that I was right about what I said, of course, members of the European Free Trade Association, which I again see as an alternative to the Czech Republic after leaving the European Union, there is, for example, Switzerland, Norway, Liechtenstein, from 2000 to 2013, according to the Secretariat of the European Free Trade Association, the European Union generated 52 183 legal regulations from which Norway adopted a total of 4 724, which is 9 percent. Mr. Benešík from KDU-ČSL says 100 percent, but it's 9 percent. Furthermore, as far as Iceland is concerned, the number came out very similar. In Iceland, they adopted from those European regulations 6 326 of 62 809 legal acts from January 1994 to December 2014. This means that it is a fraction of EU legislation. So I am right that the members of the EFTA do not have to accept by far 100 per cent, even a minority of European regulations. I just wanted to add that, and I think we should probably get back to the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u61	Thank you. Mr Martínek and then Mr Benešík will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u62	I only need a short time for Mr. Manipulator here. Well, I was listening. Mr. Benešík said he had to take action in the segment where the business is. Of course, they don't have to accept everything, but if they do business in a particular segment, for example in production, in the production they want to have, they have to accept it. What Mr Benešík did not mention, and it might be appropriate to accept, is that, in addition to having no decision-making rights, he must also make payments through his funds, such as Norwegian funds and other funds, to countries that are Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u63	Thank you. I'm just gonna ask that we turn to each other in my own way. Mr. Mr. Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u64	Mr Vice-President, I thank my predecessor for making this clear. I would recommend to Mr. Okamur to clear his ears and, if possible, give the video when he puts it for his fans on Facebook, give it all. I was just saying in the segment where they want to trade, not completely. So it's just demagogy again, complete demagogy from Mr. Okamura's mouth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u65	Thank you. I will remind you that we should turn to each other through me, especially if we are going to clean something up. And now, Mr. Válek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u66	I'd like so much to get back to the budget. I'm trying to watch it. Now we've gotten completely sideways. It does not matter to me whether someone cleans their ears directly or through Mr President, I understand that they are correct through Mr President. [[Glee in the hall.]] However, the budget is important, not who cleans their ears.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u67	Thank you. Vice-President Okamura will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u68	I'm gonna say basically the same thing. Mr. Benešík, you don't have to take care of my condition. I'll take care of my own health. And whether I hear well or not, you really don't have to worry about KDU-ČSL. I'll do my thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u69	Thank you. Again, I will ask that we turn to each other by means of me. Mr. Mr. Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u70	Mr Vice-President, through you, I have no interest in Mr Okamura's health. I just said what I said. He lied here, pulled me out of context, didn't say the whole thing, and he says I lied. That's all. I don't give a damn about your health. Just tell this microphone the truth and don't lie about me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u71	Thank you. Those were all factual points. So now we will get to the general debate, to the usual written applications, so Mrs Šafránková, Mrs Richterová will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the amendments that I tabled under the SPD with my colleague Pavel Jelínek. The first one is a transfer of 23.5 billion. CZK from the budget chapter General Treasury Administration to the budget chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. In particular, it is a reduction in the amount of contributions to the European Union budget to half of the planned amount. At the time of the beginning of the economic crisis due to the pandemic, such fundamental budgetary steps must also be taken and, in particular, the interests of Czech citizens and Czech companies affected by the effects of this crisis must be given priority. In this situation, therefore, it is not appropriate to send such an enormously high amount abroad for the operation of European Union institutions which do not even plan any own savings. A fraction of 23.5 billion. We propose to move the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to the following areas: 1.5 billion. CZK for benefits to people with disabilities, 8 billion. CZK for the care allowance under the Social Services Act, further CZK 4 billion. CZK for the salaries of the staff of the resort, especially within the Czech Social Security Administration and the Labour Office, and CZK 10 billion. CZK for the operation of social services provided by the authorities of the regions and municipalities, including the means for the salaries of social workers. Our second proposal is to move 27 billion. CZK from the chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade to the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. In particular, it is the transfer of all funds allocated to renewable energy subsidies between funds earmarked for the payment of all types of pensions. Astronomical subsidy support to so-called solar barons, private energy producers, is inexcusable in itself and in the time of the emerging economic crisis separately. The amount, this 27 billion. CZK, therefore, we propose to transfer pension benefits to the area, because of the fact that there has been a significant decline in selected pension insurance due to the dampening of the economy during the emergency period and the so-called pension account is therefore significantly weakened. This cannot be accepted because old-age and disabled pensioners and beneficiaries of other types of pensions, orphans, widows and widows must not be reduced in their incomes and living standards at the expense of the support of private commercial entities and must not be limited in any way by the planned valorisation of their pensions. Therefore, I beg you to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u73	Thank you. Now, Mrs Richterová. Mr Dolejš will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u74	Thank you for the floor. Again, I will return to what I mentioned last time, because the overall position behind the pirát has been presented, but we have not yet discussed that, in addition to measures such as the lack of savings on the part of the state, we lack the certainty that the money that will now come from the state budget will also go into the prevention of further waves, including, inter alia, the construction of sufficient infrastructure, to ensure that there is a need for more extensive testing. So what I would like to focus on, not only the Minister or the Minister of Health present, but also all of you, esteemed colleagues, is that the deficit budget must necessarily provide for the capacity of testing that would enable tens of thousands of people to be tested very quickly if more local outbreaks were to occur. The proposal we're making is to get to 30,000 tests a day. I mentioned last time that this is a number comparable to a number of other countries, such as Denmark, the conversion per capita has such a capacity of tests. But I'll give you one more look. Imagine what's coming in the fall. In the fall, people get colds, coughs, temperatures. And we have about 5,600 practical doctors, 2,500 pediatricians. If only four of their patients, on average, want to send these doctors to the test, if it's not covid, it'll mean 32,000 tests a day. So that's kind of the reason for the number, too. And now for this motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies. Although we were given a rough plan on July 2nd, a gross national testing plan, it is not there at all to be detailed as to how we would reach this necessary capacity. Perhaps many of you here know that in Karvinsko, for example, there are about 500 tests a day and that it is simply necessary, at some point, that it is not enough to do this, it is precisely necessary to have a strategy on how to do this, whether it is the military's deployment or otherwise. But, of course, it's gonna need some financial collateral, as well as paying off the tests. And this is all needed to be prepared in advance so that at the moment when it will - let me give an example - the second OKD-type outbreak, it was not hesitation and it was possible to decide in time, to prevent it from actually being... in Karvina we witness how rapidly the numbers of the infected increased because there was no rapid reaction at the beginning, the rapid massive testing. And one more thing. Just as we lack a plan for how the government gets to the necessary capacities in reserve, we still lack the setting of conditions for testing at those flat and regional levels. And again, it's tied to the funding. That is why I am talking about this in the context of the budget, that, of course, every test carries a financial load. It'll pay off. It's prevention. It's cheaper. But he's carrying it. And that's what needs to be thought out. In addition to the questions we ask ourselves for pirát in connection with autumn, with autumn colds and coughs, so the same practical questions that relate to money are already being dealt with by people today, for example, that it is not secured when people have symptoms, they need to be collected, but they do not have their own car, or they are so sick that they can't get there so that the mobile collection teams really work, or that people who are in quarantine need to be transported into home isolation. Likewise, it is not yet complete who is to be quarantined, in a way that is entitled to be quarantined. As far as I know, the numbers today are that for one positive test, there's about one and a half people quarantined. And that would be a close call. That's too little. And there is perhaps also some caution to quarantine people, because it has budgetary implications again. But the question is, is it simply sufficiently premeditated when it comes to household members in particular? So, in summary, of course, it has budgetary implications when people need wage compensation, they're in quarantine, but since it's going to be cheaper overall, we're asking that the government resolve these situations that are simply not settled today. Given the law that we are discussing, namely the draft state budget and its amendments, I will read again the motion for a resolution that we tabled for the Pirates to the House, namely the accompanying resolution, where we ask the government to prepare the necessary infrastructure for possible more extensive population testing, specified on the presence of a disease caused by a new type of coronavirus, and that infrastructure should be prepared for the number that I have justified, at least 30,000 tests a day. We don't say it has to happen, but we have to be prepared for it. It's just rational - to be prepared. Secondly, we ask the government to prepare a national test plan following the infrastructure, especially for local outbreaks and testing funding. And once again, we got some rough plan, we're aware of that, but it's really kind of a skeleton, a rough outline, rather a description of how things are today, but not a description of where we want to go and how we get there. So how do we get the necessary capacity of testing, sampling and so on is still a question mark that I present here to the House for some kind of highlight of this resolution. And I really ask the government very much to address all these aspects, which I have outlined and which clearly concern the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u75	Thank you. Mr Dolejš is now in the general debate. Mr Martínek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u76	Thank you for your word. If you don't mind, I will rather complement the current debate, because on the subject of the dispute of the coalition - opposition, respectively. Some of the tactical contexts of today's action have already been said enough. And I think it would not be wrong to realise some of the contexts of the longer-term, more substantial, so that we can explain to the citizens of this country that we know what we are doing at least in the sense that we realize that one step will be taken further and that there are some, say, strategic intersections ahead of us to decide. This means that even if today we decide on an increased response to something that was definitely not planned, and that is an increase in the original deficit of 40 billion. up to 500 billion, so maybe here we can say, from the perspective of today's information, whether it is or not excessive, we can say, whether it is good or badly targeted, how we manage to draw the money that we have released. But I think that's certainly not enough, even though I think a citizen at home on television deserves the information that out of 500 billion, if I deduct the already approved 40 billion. Last year, practically half of it will fall into a tax downturn. If it's 220, or how much, it's just that half of the sum is going to fall to tax, so that's where the target or purpose is clear. [[17.20 hours]] Another relatively significant part of money is also given because by shutting down the economy, so logically we were also obliged, even directly obliged, by shutting down the economy, so simply some things to cash in, keeping some elementary things going, delivering liquidity, and so on. And we can talk about whether the programs we did on the run were perfect or not, but they had to be. And I think that if there was any colored government, it would go about in a similar spirit, it could differ in detail, but in that spirit it would have to act. Then we have some amount left, which, let's say, increases the area, which is expressed primarily by representatives of government tandem, and that they want to invest from difficult times. Let's just say it's 500 billion. there's not that much investment going on, but we can say that we're going to add it to those investments that we decided on last December. What's important is that when we talk about exaggeration, let's remember that the proposal we have on the table is built on some kind of prediction. And, yes, if we were to decide a month or two later, you might have more current and more accurate predictions, but those predictions would certainly not be directed towards a smaller problem, because I dare say that the institutions of the European Commission, OECD, but also the Czech National Bank, which are already moving in values of about eight or more percent of the decline in gross domestic product, probably have some validity to these predictions, so it is probably reasonable to work with them. And the fact that the industry figures that have now been published in May signal about a quarter annual turnover, which is an improvement compared to the previous month of April, simply confirms that it will not simply be a walk through the rose orchard and that, in terms of both income decline and the condition of individual economic operators, we are in a problem that cannot be addressed in any way other than the larger spending activity of the budget. So at this point, we don't have a dilemma about whether we want to invest or cross out, because it's going to be a dilemma of budgeting for 2021, and I don't want it for those who come after 2021, because it's going to be a matter of longer-term fiscal outlook, that's where it's going to happen. And if someone is now speaking in such almost apocalyptic terms that today's step is going to be a budget break, that we're going to cross the fiscal Rubikon, that it's basically almost the end of the world, let's say that if we take a little bit of that 500, if that's so crucial that we can use this terminology. I don't think so, she's the chairman of the budget board saying that we could make 400 so far and then we could work out a little bit of a different amount in September, but that sounds like a bit of a salami method to me. I think, for example. I think my colleague Kalousek said in the paper today it could be 600. Well, it can, it can, and even quite real. So if there's going to be pressure on the government to keep it from going beyond 500, then I think it's a reasonable pressure for this year's budget framework not to go beyond that, but more importantly, what we're going to do in those years next, because we've expanded our fiscal space for 2021 by redecorating the budgetary responsibility law, by extending the structural deficit to 4 percent for next year -- well, that's actually 300 billion. CZK, if we were to do it, in deficit for next year, so we're already at 800 billion if we add this year, and that's the problem. Because, of course, if we used the whole space, we actually have a lot less time left to consolidate in some time period, and we could kind of get into a situation where the debt spiral would really start to cause us problems. At least if the price of the debt service increases, it will reduce the scope for us to do something for economic development. In a situation where the exit strategy should be about spinning wheels and going back to the original 2019 figures, which I dare say will not be in 2021, that we will be happy to get to the GDP level in 2022, in terms of volume. So that's the problem. Moreover, in the longer term, we need to realise that we are pulling some burdens together, a long-term unsolved burden that may come less intensely or a little later, but they would definitely come. Perhaps you know the metaphor of unexpected events in the form of so-called. black swans, as they say, some claim that pandemics like climate change are not actually black swans, that it is not unexpected, that we actually know about it, that it is slowly approaching, we know about it, but we do nothing, and they call it a grey rhinoceros. It doesn't really matter, I personally think that such a gray rhino could also be the issue of the financial architecture of the world and Europe, the question of failing to manage integration or matters that may be related to trade wars etc., and those could, of course, create similar tensions anyway. They were even economists who had been psychic about the crisis for the past five years. They were having a crisis, and I have to say, if they lasted a while, it would certainly work out, because it's enough to be a tycoon long enough, and the unpleasant situation always comes. And let's just say that at the very least, we're dependent as a small open economy abroad, that we're deformed by having a certain production monoculture, that we're going to switch to innovative behavior here, because otherwise we're going to be eliminated from these global chains and we're not going to achieve enough productivity at work, these are things that, of course, have to be dealt with in the long term, but we also have to assign these tools to that. Will it be public investment if we want to invest? Because there is a hypothesis that is in the last National Budget Board, the more advanced the economy, the greater the weight of private and the less the weight of public investment. So this is just one of the burdens. Another burden is the pension system, when it is said that about 70 percent of our deficit will be withdrawn by unmanaged pension reform, we can consider the financial model of nuclear energy, which is also built on bonds, etc. etc. I think they're just burdens that are actually medium-term. And if we assign to that an attempt to measure the medium-term load - one of those burdens is that we don't slow down the debt spiral in time - so logically, the potential conflict with the debt brake is moving closer to us. If the confrontation with the debt brake is already in 2023, and not somewhere in the time horizons in two parliamentary periods, then of course it is a very current problem. So there's a lot of strategic considerations. I know we've been having a long time tonight, and we even want to quit today. So basically, I'm just going to remind you of the last thing that I think if we're calling for a strategic debate, if we want to have an opportunity to have this strategic debate over a substantive basis, which, by the way, is the medium-term concept of consolidation of public finances, we just can't get past the issue of the revenue side of public finances. I understand that, firstly, the current government has promised not to raise taxes, secondly, it has only promised to simplify the tax system and eliminate distortion, etc. etc., and I also understand that when the economy is in a deep recession, it's hard to call for tax increases, that's perfectly logical. But let's just say that these future challenges are going to ask us to rationalize the structure of the budget and see if there are any reserves after all. Yes, it is true that the gross tax quota in our country is higher, but the net tax quota is below the OECD average. Let us note that there is a discrepancy between labour tax and consumption and property tax by means of large corporations, by virtue of capital revenues. These are things that are related to each other, and I think that some more thoughtful innovation in the tax mix is more than appropriate, and once again we should not proceed with the salami method - in some way we are doing the removal of the supergross wage, here we are going to have fun if voters are not enough to symbolize some solidarity millionaire benefit, which will be a minimum yield, but at least it will hurt the rich a little bit. I think that this country's tax system really deserves modernisation and a slightly more thoughtful approach. And I think that we can detabust during this parliamentary term, although I don't think that there will be a revolution in taxes next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u77	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The next in line is Mr Tomáš Martínek, to whom I give my word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u78	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support my accompanying resolution, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to provide sufficient supplies of protective equipment and other material within the state's material reserves to cope with the possible second wave of SARS-CoV-2 Coronavirus, ideally using Czech producers." As far as possible, the Czech or European manufacturers of protective equipment should be encouraged in order to ensure, in the event of a growing global epidemic, at least the basic supply of Czech health professionals, social services, vulnerable groups of residents and other people on the front line. During the pandemic Czech manufacturers, volunteers and e.g. The pirates produced and distributed free of charge protective equipment to the company needed. On me prepared and 30 March 2020 published list of Czech manufacturers of protective equipment is over 200 Czech producers. This overview helped some authorities to find a company with which they could purchase protective equipment for their employees, health workers or citizens. The quality of Czech manufacturers is often significantly above the protective efficiency and quality of products imported from abroad thanks to the use of nanovláken. The Czech Republic is a superpower in nanotechnologies, which often demonstrate a high level of protection. The technical university in Liberec is the top in this area. Many Czech producers invested in their production lines to be able to cover this possible state order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u79	Thank you, too. The next in line is Mr František Navrkal, Mr Radek Holomčík will prepare the last so far signed up for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. It's a shame that the Treasury Secretary here left the O.R., even though she personally asked me to do this a few minutes ago... allegedly, the rapporteur tells me that she left. [[The secretary is coming to the table.]] Oh, okay, he's back, so great. Well, thank you. Well, it's great that you came back here for my show. So I'm just going to introduce it briefly. I want to open up here the subject of my amendment to the amendment to the budget, which aims to give 100 miles. from the government's budgetary reserve to a chapter intended for the operation of courts, so that they have the resources to ensure personnel capacity to deal with unlawful executions. It's a very large problem. According to an estimate by the Justice Department, it could be up to 133 thousand. cases. I think that, in the current situation, such a measure fits into the emerging economic crisis, because, as a result, it is essentially an investment in less burden on the social system and that people are not so motivated to stay in the grey economy and pay taxes. So I think it would go back to the state budget very quickly. As far as some calculations are concerned, our estimate is that, on average, three workers could be added to each district court, while currently normally, some low units are doing so, one or two people who actually pursue this agenda on the courts that are actually burdened with this agenda, so it might speed up the process twice, three times. I've been discussing this with government representatives. I might even have some calculations right here from Deputy Chief of Justice. Indeed, according to these calculations, he says here that realistic first, new work forces could be hired sometime in September, so it would only be about some four months of this year, when the funds could actually be used. But that's not really a major problem. Undrawn funds could be claimed by the Justice Department next year. So, no problem, it could be exhausted. Otherwise, from the government's budget reserve, it's roughly 37 billion. CZK, so my transfer here represents less than three per mile of government budget reserves. So I don't quite understand why the Secretary of State, at least for the time being, maybe he'll tell me that she's changed her mind, defending herself. Secretary Schillerová's argument is that there are some 200 vacant tables in the Justice Department, which is true. I didn't receive any information that contradicted it. However, we need to realize how this money is being used. It's not some money that's not used. The money is used to pay extra remuneration in addition to the desk salaries of the department's employees, and the spreadsheet salaries in the Justice Department are rarely really undignifiedly low. I, by chance, recently requested information from all ministries, including the Ministry of Justice, what are the starting salaries in the official positions. And as one example for all, I would mention the position of a reporter in courts where the starting salary is CZK 15,480 a month. That means she earns half of what a particular employee would earn as a supermarket saleswoman. So they're really undignified wages, and by... I saw that as the Minister's main argument why not make this move. Likewise, the Minister here - of course, the government could carry out this entire transfer through budgetary measures, but I did not see any such promise coming from the Minister here or any other member of the government. So I would like to ask the Minister here, through the President, to comment on why she thinks it would be wrong to accept such an amendment if she still insists. Or why it would not be a good idea for the government to take equivalent budgetary measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u81	Thank you, too. Mr Holomčík is still in the debate and then Mr Skopeček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u82	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. I would like to ask you to support our accompanying resolution, which should bring some clarity and some information about the very strange practice of past years, when the contributions from the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic were made to the state budget. The reason why we have read this resolution in this press is simple. Actually, the 500 billion we're talking about here are 3 billion. allocated as grant support to a state-owned enterprise to master the cruststorm and it is assumed that even in budgets for the following years the funds will appear here, so it is on topic. I'd like to repeat what I said at first reading. I will certainly not contradict the need to support a state enterprise in these difficult times. That's completely out of the question. But I think it would be worth it, I think it's very important that we be clear where the money is going and why it's not there right now. Because since 2014, every year there has been some growth, some 26 billion have emerged from the state enterprise. crowns that are now desperately lacking. According to the information we have, the company is going to an accountant. He must be subsidized to handle the difficult situation, and I consider it a very strange practice indeed. I will not go into detail, I said that at first reading, when I went through the years here, I always said what GDP growth was like in a given year and how much has been done. But I think that since 2016, when, according to the Supreme Audit Office's findings, the calamity has already grazed, the contributions have really been very, very strange. Especially in 2017, when a large part of the resources were transferred from the reserve fund for growing, to the recovery of the forest. That's the money that would be needed right now, which at a time of crisis, at a time of record deficit, we have to deliver to that state enterprise, they're not there. [[17.40 hours]] I think it's a really fundamental topic, we're talking about one-sixth of this country's size, we're talking about assets worth something - some estimates say hundreds of billions, some go into trillions. Of course, forests are crucial if we talk about some landscape health, climate change management, drought management. So I think that both we here in the Chamber of Deputies and the citizens of this country deserve to see, first of all, how the calamity spreads, but we have talked about this several times. That is the first point in our resolution. And after what actually happened to the almost 26 billion that came out of the business, and now they're who knows where. So I will be very happy if we agree that we want to inform the public, we want to inform ourselves, we want that information so that we can do our job according to our best knowledge and conscience, and I will be happy if you support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u83	Thank you. Next in the debate will be Mr Skopeček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u84	Thank you for the floor. I am trying or trying to reduce my original long and extensive performance to the very minimum, after all, I have spoken to the budget at previous readings, but I cannot respond. I think that today's debate revolves around one fundamental, cardinal issue, namely whether it is possible to extend to prosperity or not. The government and the left-wing coalition are likely to wager that prosperity and the crisis can be prolonged. They call it investing, but that's kind of a sneaky move. This government has never been able to invest, and it is naive to think that by waving a magic wand, this government will start investing somehow more dramatically than in recent years. I am convinced that there is no way to invest in prosperity. After all, we could see this in a number of states, and I do not just mean Greece, which has quickly gone into debt crisis from the economic crisis, has de facto gone bankrupt, although it must not be called that. But it is not just Greece's problem, it is a problem for many other countries, actually the entire southern wing of the eurozone. There we can see or see the experiment that the current government wants to apply to us live. There the debt, the debt, certainly did not lead to a growth of prosperity, but vice versa. These countries are dwindling, are economically very weak, there is high unemployment and have unsustainable debts. And what the government is planning on us is truly an enormous debt. The government plans to increase the share of public debt to GDP from 30 to 40 per cent in just one year, by a total of 10 percentage points. And I'm asking if any of us really think that a bigger state, more government spending can contribute to the prosperity. We have seen in recent years and since this government that spending has been quite rapid, the rate of expenditure growth has also been relatively high in recent years under this government, and yet we have been slowing down in recent months before the Corona problem broke out, and we have already seen that the Czech economy has started to lose, and it has shown itself to me. even in the weak results of the state budget in the first months of this year. Even without the coronavirus crisis, the state budget, as the government has drawn it up and approved it very badly, would have problems, and the Minister would have to do something about the state budget without the coronavirus crisis. I don't think you can extend to prosperity. I think there are other ways to prosper. I think that prosperity in the Czech Republic would lead to the removal of unnecessary regulation in a regulated Czech economy if we reduced regulation. I think that a lower tax burden would help the Czech private sector, i.e. the one pushing the economy and its performance forward. I believe that the prosperity of the Czech Republic would help if the state, which has actually covered itself with fat over the years of the movement, had acquired tens of thousands of new civil servants if this relentless, rigid, slow state had taken on a reduction diet. The crisis, though none of us is happy about it, was an opportunity for us to say goodbye to what was slowing our economy, what was pushing us down in the competitiveness charts, and that is certainly not that we had small government spending in the past and that we could start the economy with the higher government spending. Unfortunately, however, neither a significant reduction in the state, nor a significant reduction in or removal of regulations, nor a lower tax burden brings about this amendment to the state budget. This amendment to the state budget brings higher debts and steals the future for our children, future generations, because these future generations of today's debts that we want to solve our current, current problem, so they will be repaid by the generations that will come after us. Whether it is in the form of having to deal with high debts, like the southern countries of the eurozone, whether they have to deal with higher taxes, because no one will pay the government debt, and even if not today, it will mean logically larger taxes in the future, or whether it will be more inflation, when we start the fact that the government bonds issued by the Ministry of Finance are being purchased by the Czech National Bank. Either more debts that will cause problems or more tax burdens that will continue to dampen private sector activity, or higher inflation will rob our children's futures, and the government will become a thief of the future of our children and future generations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u85	Thank you. I'll ask for peace in the courtroom. And Mrs Kovářová will speak in the general debate. Please, you have the floor. Mr. President Jurečka will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, Prime Minister, allow for the starosta and the independent few comments on this proposal. First, I will evaluate the preparation of the documents and this proposal, how they were delivered to us in the House. That's where it can be described as the unprofessional performance of the Treasury. So let's remember that this isn't about 1 billion. the deficit, but it is the highest deficit in the history of the Czech Republic, and we have received this proposal, in essence the explanatory report had about three sides, I do not consider it sufficient, and of course the information that the Minister promised us did not give us, and I do not consider that correct if we are hearing that we should be on the same ship. I have identified this as a detective work for the opposition, that we are looking for how the government's budget reserve and similar data have been used up. The next item I would like to evaluate is the deficit of 0.5 beats. Crowns. This amount is, of course, excessive, it is premature and unfounded, because it was enough to divide this amount and come to the House first with an amount of 400 billion. The crowns and wait for the results that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u87	Yes, Madame, I understand you, and I will ask everyone in the Chamber to keep their voice down so that we can negotiate this point. If there's any noise in the O.R., we won't go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u88	I don't know if the noise's still there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u89	No, it's still noise. I don't understand that we can't agree to respect each other. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u90	Thank you, Mr President. So it was enough to submit a deficit of 400 billion. CZK and then wait for data that will be known in July and August and then act accordingly and come up with another proposal if necessary, for example in September. However, the Secretary of State assessed this that she simply does not want to go to the House so many times. I think this is not an argument, because we are not really talking about some trivial amount, but about the highest deficit in the history of the Czech Republic, the deficit of half a trillion crowns. At the same time, Madam Secretary, so she doesn't have to go to the House twice, or once more... [[Minister Schiller: Four times.]] But that's okay, Madam Secretary, you say four times, but that's okay. The situation is exceptional and it also deserves an exceptional hearing. You have made it easy on yourself by putting huge cotton in the government's budget reserve of 137 billion in this proposal. The koruna and for us it means that you wanted to decide this amount only in the government. Absolute decision-making power for the government without the scrutiny of the Chamber of Deputies about such a huge amount. Fortunately, by the second day, the Prime Minister created some priorities for the government and a list of items where the government's budgetary reserve could aim. As far as the government's budget reserve and its distribution are concerned, it's kind of classified. Some items are not actually specified. We can say that the 12 billion. The Antivirus is clear, we agree. We also agree with the item that is there and concerns compensation for municipalities for income losses in relation to the compensatory bonus. This was decided by the Senate, so it really had to be there. Then there's stuff like barking calamity and fear drought. That's where I think the debate has already been expressed in that it's a serious subject. If we are to take this as a promotion of employment, we can also take this as a good direction. On the other hand, as I said before, it was known that the fight against bark and drought really needed to be dealt with in a forceful way and that this item should have been already in the draft state budget, or both, in the draft state budget for 2020. Of course, we also agree with this, and so we say from the beginning that it is necessary to quickly get money into regions, into investments, in smaller ones, to support small and medium-sized companies, through the money that goes on smaller constructions, for subsidies that have been settled, municipalities and cities have a building permit and these buildings can be implemented immediately. And that is where Mr Babiš's amendment reveals that funding is also available for schools and kindergartens. And, of course, what we welcome is the construction of apartments. That, I think, is quite all right for us. Then we have an SFDI item of 20 billion. Crowns. We've also talked about this many times, and that's because we don't know where the specific projects are after all. The Minister has only shown lists so far, so let us hope that these are lists prepared and that they will not only be investments in motorways, railways and roads, but will also be useful investments for the whole region. I would also like to mention the way in which the Ministry of Finance and the Minister approach critical comments from the National Budget Board. This ministry's attitude is sometimes contemptible, sometimes contemptible - and I ask why. When the National Budget Board talks about government thinking about the sustainability of public finances, it is not a dirty word. It is very important that investors, or creditors, foreign investors, who buy our bonds to know that our public finances will be sustainable in the long term. That we have or are preparing pension reform that we do not have underfunded health care or education. This is how I would expect the government to come up with an idea and not to criticize the National Budgetary Council for the comments it makes to the Ministry and to us Members. As regards the position on the opposition's amendments. So here I was going to say that sometimes unprofessional to rude remarks in those opinions, so the Minister has already set it right, because the amendment, which concerned the regions, was written that the Ministry of Finance does not agree, because everything cannot be distributed to everyone, but I have already noted that the position has been revised. Now let me comment on our amendments. As I have already mentioned, municipalities receive compensation for outages from a compensation bonus of 12.8 billion. Crowns. We're pleased, but unfortunately, the government has bailed on the edge. The regions will not receive such a financial amount as compensation, so we propose 500 CZK per capita per region of a total amount of 5.4 billion. Crowns. I'm just reminding you that the argument that the government is going to compensate for this is 4 billion. on the roads of the second and third classes, we do not take this argument, and this is because it is the money promised to the regions and therefore not serve as compensation for income losses as a result of certain measures. Other amendments are heading to the regions, to the local economy and to support investment, so that people have work in the regions to support small and medium-sized companies, and we are heading again for grant titles settled, where many municipalities and cities remain below the threshold of several billion crowns, the projects are ready. We're moving this into local communications 500 million, 1 billion. on the SFDI on safe pavements and bike paths. I have noticed that the government is already dealing with this in some way. Of course, we must not forget the restoration of cultural monuments. There are a number of projects that are also footnotes. There's a lot of work. This means that small craftsmen would find work on the repair of cultural monuments. Last but not least, we are making an amendment calling on the Ministry of Finance to open a grant title which, as the Prime Minister says, has been implementing years ago, which has been in operation since 2014 and which has helped to repair a number of schools and increase capacity. However, we handed over to the Prime Minister some time ago lists of lack of basic and kindergarten capacity, and it is clear there that the lack of capacity simply did not disappear with the coronavirus crisis. And since the Prime Minister has promised to think about it, if it would be possible to support our amendment, which says that he would have already issued a grant title for primary schools this year and that it would continue in 2021, because it is a pity that the Ministry of Finance wants to waste that year in this respect. If this proposal had been passed, it would have been possible to start the construction of primary schools this year and then complete it. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said, many of the reasons I have mentioned are why we will not support this draft deficit of CZK half a trillion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u91	Well, thank you, too. I'll read two apologies before I give the floor to President Marian Jurečka. I would like to apologise for the participation of Minister Tomáš Petříček from the meeting on 8 July from 18 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons and Mr Martin Baxa from today's meeting from 18 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u92	Good evening, Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Madam Secretary, members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. Let me begin by expressing my thanks to the KDU-ČSL for the state budget for today's very important third-reading vote on housing support, so that the senseless real estate transfer tax and the brave ones, who also helped by one vote to maintain the support of mortgage interest, could be deducted from the tax law, because what some Members were able to say and confirmed by the vote was not easy in their situation. And thanks for the tens of thousands of people involved, who write and have positive feedback. That's for starters. In order not to just criticize here, here as an opposition MP - thank you for what has been done today for people and for greater accessibility and more housing support. Now to the very draft of the record deficit of the state budget. I start by looking often at the surrounding states, Germany, Austria, and looking at how well they can do it in those states. How quickly they can help their businesses and entrepreneurs in these times. And for example, in the case of Germany, we're talking about speed, but we're talking about massiveness. And even economists acknowledge that Germany can, paradoxically, come out of this crisis even stronger. Yes, it is at the cost of Germany's further increase in its debt. Before the crisis, Germany had its debt at around 60 percent of GDP. Now the German government is borrowing these massive aids, and this will increase Germany's debt to around 75 percent of GDP. But when I look at it in Germany, and I had a chance to visit a month ago and have a meeting, for example. With the Saxon Prime Minister, I have clearly understood that the strategy of these investments and those of the German Government's support is aimed at investments that have a great multiplier effect for the future, projects that they would have to do anyway, and fast support, which will also support labour market restructuring, so that people from those fields that will be in a very difficult situation over the next few months, years, can regroup as quickly as possible into the fields of prospects. To disciplines where science and research show that it makes sense for these people to be able to requalify and move there. And that's what I miss when I look at some of the measures here in the Czech Republic, when the declared massive support of companies, businessmen affected by covid, so when I look at the statistics on how much it was promised, we're about 1 per cent of gross domestic product, or slightly over, compared to the declared 17 per cent of total support. And to be fair, the government promised that the direct aid would be around 4 percent of GDP. 1% of GDP is 60 billion. Crowns. So there's a big difference in what's been declared, promised to those companies, and what's really being paid today, what kind of support they're getting today. I will make a comparison with Germany, where for example. Those loans, which we are talking about today, that through ČMZRB and those guarantees will be provided for approximately four-year maturity and one-year deferral, so for example in the aforementioned Saxony these loans are for ten-year maturity and deferral up to three-year maturity. That's quite a distinct difference in how much the support is, how much the state offers a helping hand to entrepreneurs. And I don't want to be the only one here who says no cheaply, this country doesn't need another deficit. We know that by the end of the year there is an estimate, a realistic estimate, even from economists who are in many ways critical of the government, that the decline in income will be around 250 billion. Crowns. If we add to this the necessary measures to save the labour market and encourage people not to lose their jobs massively, it is evident that the deficit is 300 billion. The koruna is not feasible and no government will be able to cope with it by the end of the year, no matter who is in the position of government. But if we look at these other 200 billion. CZK, so there is a certain criticism here that it is not obvious that the transfers to those budget chapters will be invested meaningfully this year. Yes, I'm glad that the original design of the big reserve where the number was 137 billion. CZK as a government budget reserve, which means that every government, every government's conduct, can be that, in any way, this money will be decided at the government's meeting by ministers to which ministries it will go, without any scrutiny of the Chamber of Deputies, so I am glad that this general huge amount is in the proposal amended by the Prime Minister here, broken down into individual chapters. But I'm not sure that the layout is realistic. When we look at some resorts, they are amounts in tens of billions of crowns. And I'm not sure, and even though I've been talking to people in those areas who do, by the end of the year, it's possible to make meaningful investments. For example, within the constructions that are going to be done, if there's even that capacity, if there's workers here, if, in the autumn and winter, these buildings have their quality, and it won't be at the expense of speed. Those are the first questions that come out here. Then there are areas that deserve financial support and which we, for KDU-ČSL, in our amendments... We propose to move some of the money under the current draft government budgetary reserve, which is still proposed at a very high level of 37 billion. Crowns. For people who may even be watching our actions, I will remind them that the government's budget reserve has been around 4.5 billion in recent years. The koruna and the government were able to cope with it over the course of the year. So even the 37 billion. The koruna is still quite a large amount. And we propose that we be able to strengthen some important areas in the Czech Republic and some important spectrum of our society. We propose to strengthen, for example, the very difficult situation of pensioners, especially mothers who raised children. In the long run, it is a big problem when these people, these moms, have worked for the fact that today there is a production generation of us who stand here today, we are acting, we are deciding, but they are being punished by the pension calculation system. Their pensions are about 2.5 thousand. CZK on average lower. That's why the $500 proposal to mommy for every raised kid a month is absolutely appropriate. It is also a solution for these people not to lose their roof over their heads, they were able to cope with rising inflation, because it is the pensioner in the Czech Republic who is most affected today. We have one of the highest inflations in the Czech Republic. That is why this proposal makes sense. There is also a proposal from our workshop, which is dedicated and aimed at supporting parents, those who raise children. Those who, with the coming of September and autumn, will have the expense of having children go to elementary school, high school, college. Then we also have a proposal that goes to a very important area, and that is housing support. I believe that it makes more sense to increase the chapter of the State Housing Development Fund and programmes that can help finance housing, because there is a large multiplier effect for local employment, for businessmen, for small and medium-sized companies and especially for those who pay taxes here in the Czech Republic. Massive support of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure is fine. The question is, will he be able to invest it by the end of the year? But this money will largely go to companies that make these profits to other countries within dividends. And if we are talking about the multiplier effect from the point of view of employment, the promotion of housing, reconstruction, insulation of flats has the greatest added value in terms of one crown, which they invest by the state in job creation. And then we have a very important proposal concerning the financing of social services. I understand in the seven years I've been in the House, so it's during the year, every year, repeating evergreen. The increases in social services expenditure are quite large. This is due to the increasing number of people who need these services, because perhaps the background of their families does not allow them to handle the care and they need someone who can help them professionally. And here we have long struggled with the fact that even this year, despite the increased expenditure in this area, the costs that social services in the Czech Republic will have to implement are not covered. I would very much like to keep this area in mind. [[18.10 hours]] I also asked the Minister for four important things in the motion for a resolution that I have read on this press. That the government not only gives Members but the general public a really detailed overview of how the state budget is implemented in the first half of this year. I was given a certain overview, which the Prime Minister gave me in printed form, it was great to see some things developing, not nice numbers, but I would like all Members, not only Members of the Committee on Budgets, but also the general public to get this information. The second thing was to get a very detailed view of the second half and how the 200 billion were. CZK will be specifically invested, in more detail than the amendment, which covers 130 billion on 12 points. CZK for each budget chapter. It is also for the government to say what kind of support for employment and jobs we can expect for these funds. Then I asked for a third thing whether the government could update the budgetary perspective, the medium-term budgetary perspective for 2021 to 2023. I understand that it is difficult, that it is not entirely easy to estimate and model this, but we see it in countries like Austria, such as Germany, that these governments are trying to deliver this to their parliaments. Because there is something else standing here as an MP and deciding on the deficit, the record deficit of half a trillion crowns, and knowing that the outlook for next year will be 100 or 50 or 300 billion. Crowns. That's a big difference. So that's what I miss about the communication we're running today, the delivery of these documents. And the last thing I asked, and it is also in the motion for an accompanying resolution, that the government should also put forward effective austerity measures at individual ministries and public offices. I do not want and I do not call for any blunt antisocial cuts, but I think from my experience that it is possible to come up with meaningful savings at every resort, whether it is the areas of external services, legal advice, marketing, etc., or, for example, in the area of slimming the organizational structure, in reducing the number of executives - it may not be about massive redundancies, about losing the capacity of the government's activities, but about being able to simply save. I think that every family, every parent, every normal person, when there's a crisis, logically, they're trying to look to some extent for savings on their own, just to be able to be modest is a good thing. So that's four things I called for. Unfortunately, when I followed the outcome of the budget committee meeting, where neither of our amendments was supported, I did not even notice that there was the will to deliver these documents that we are calling for, we decided to increase the state budget deficit by another 200 billion in agreement with our membership club. CZK do not support the situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u93	Thank you, too. If there's no one else reporting... If no one's volunteering for a debate... Who's applying? If anyone checks in, let them report. President Faltýnek is reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u94	Thank you for the floor. I am very sorry, but after the debate with some colleagues, I would like to put forward a procedural proposal to be sure that we should discuss the state budget, the territorially and the proceduralally, and vote after 19 o'clock before discussing the third reading of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u95	Thank you. It is a procedural proposal that I will put to the vote. We will be voting on this point, the amendment to the state budget, to be voted on and taken after 19 o'clock until this point has been discussed. President Stanjura has a procedural counterclaim or clarification.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u96	I do not want to complicate this, but President Faltýnek made a mistake in his haste, so that we do not have to question the vote, he should announce on behalf of which two MPs propose it. I know that, but for the record, it needs to be done. I said that before the vote so we wouldn't have to question it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u97	Thank you. Yes, Prime Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u98	Yes, thank you, President Stanjura is right. I made this proposal on behalf of two parliamentary clubs - social democracy and YES. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u99	So, at this point, we have all the formalities we need to be able to vote on - and I will, of course, sign you all out - and we will vote on this point after 19 o'clock. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 66, 180 Members and Members, for 148, against 1. The motion was accepted. Chairman Stanjura reporting. There is still a debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u100	Good evening. The opinion of our club was summarized by President Petr Fiala, I will not repeat it. Today, we have presented our competitive and better plan than the government that we have called a rescue circle for the economy, and so that they don't forget it and look for inspiration or support our proposals, so I have two lifecycles for the economy with me. I'll give one to the Prime Minister, and I'll give one to Secretary Schillerová. I look forward to working together and debating the nine bills that we put into the House of Deputies' system this week.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u101	Well, thank you, and if no one really applies anymore, I am done with the debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in any final words. Madam Secretary? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u102	I won't have the final word. [[You have the final word.]] The Prime Minister says it's going to be a 1,000-billion deficit of 700. No, no, I'm not gonna joke, I'm not gonna react, we told each other everything during those three readings. I just promised the Pirate Party and I will keep it - I will not support the 100-mile amendment. increase for the chapter of the Ministry of Justice to increase the personnel capacity of district courts to speed up the process of stopping illegal executions. I will not support it for the simple reason - we want to enforce it, we want to increase officials there. I spoke to Secretary Benešová a moment ago about her telling me you were 100 miles away. in his chapter he simply finds. So that's the only reason I won't support it. It's not that we don't want to make it happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u103	Thank you. We will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I would ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present individual amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce, first before the announcement and the vote on the procedure, that today we will follow the so-called procedure. an additive principle, i.e. that individual changes in numerical items are added or deducted, resulting in the resulting state. So we will now proceed to the vote on the procedure. We will vote on 25 amendments and 10 accompanying resolutions. If there is no comment, when voting for the procedure, I would only read the letters and numbers under which the amendment is registered, but then, in the main vote, I would always briefly present the amendment to you. [[18.20 hours]] So if there is no comment - that means we will vote first Amendment A, then B, then C1, C2, then D1, D2, then E1, E2, then F, then Amendment G1, G2 and G3. As the thirteenth vote, H1; H2 will be the fourteenth vote; 15. votes H3; 16 votes I1; 17 votes I2; 18 votes I3; 19 votes I4; 20th vote I5, 21st vote amendment under letter J; 22nd vote under letter K; 23rd vote under letter L; 24th vote under letter N1 and 25 under letter N2. We will then vote on the proposal as a whole. Following the approval of this law, we will also vote on 10 accompanying resolutions, one of which from Mr Fiala Petr's fellow Members, one from Mr Dolejší. [[Repairs from the diaper: Doleše.]] Dolejš, sorry, 5 from Mr Ferjenčík, then from Mrs Richterová, from Mr Jurečka and from Mr Bartošek Jan. I would like to vote on this procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u105	Thank you, rapporteur. Is there any comment on this procedure? I don't see anyone. Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u106	Thank you for the floor. I have no comment on the procedure, I have a request for the rapporteur. When you submit individual amendments, if you would always add the name of the appellant to them, not just a letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u107	Thank you...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u108	Of course, I signaled that I would definitely do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u109	So it's procedure. Mr. Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u110	Thank you for the floor. I, just for the record, for my five accompanying resolutions, prepared the resolution on protective aids by my colleague Martínek and the resolution on the forests of the Czech Republic by colleague Holomčík, I was only at second reading present at that time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u111	I'll take a vote on the procedure. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this procedure. Who's against it? Voting order number 67, registered 190 Members and Members, for 188, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u112	We are voting on the amendment letter A of Mr Andrej Babiš, which is the distribution of 105 billion. CZK from government budget reserve to chapters for specific purposes. Committee on Budgets - consent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u113	Opinion? [[- Agreed.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 68, registered 190 Members and Members, for 140, against were 3. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u114	Under letter B, we have an amendment by Mr František Navrkal, which is a 100-mile reduction in the government's budgetary reserve. CZK and an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u115	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u116	Committee against.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u117	I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u118	The committee is opposed, dissent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u119	I find this vote confusing, it was my fault, the end of the vote, the zeroing of the vote. The rapporteur's opinion? [[Disagree.]] The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 70, followed by 191 Members of Parliament, for 55, against 85. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u120	Under letter C1, Mr Václav Votava's amendment is a reduction in the government's budgetary reserve by 1.5 billion. CZK and increase of the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u121	Opinion? [[Rapporteur: Disagree. - Disadvised.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 71, registered by 189 Members, for 53, against 83. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u122	Under letter C2, there is an amendment to Mr Václav Votava, which is a reduction in the government's budgetary reserve by 460 million. CZK and increase of the chapter of the State Administration of Material Reserves by CZK 400 million. and 60 miles. then enter into the Programme Financing Information System.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u123	Opinion? [[Rapporteur: Disagree. - Disadvised.]] I've started the vote, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 72, registered 188 Members and Members, for 64, against 83. The motion was accepted. [[He wasn't accepted.]] Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u124	Under D1, Mrs Lucie Šafářová, amendment - reduction of expenditure... [[Voices: Saffron.]] Šafránková, sorry, reduction of the expenditure on contributions to the European Union from chapter VPS and an increase of 23.5 billion. CZK - increase to chapter MPSV of the mentioned CZK 23.5 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u125	Opinion? [[Rapporteur: Disagree. - Disadvised.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 73, followed by 191 Members, for 22, against 149. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u126	Under D2, again, Mrs Lucie Šafránková, it is a reduction in the expenditure of the MIT chapter by 27 billion. and an increase of 27 billion. Chapters of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Opinion of the Committee - opposition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u127	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 74, followed by 191 Members, for 21, against 106. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please. And I'll ask for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u128	Under the letter E1, colleague Jiří Dolejš, it is a reduction in the government's budgetary reserve by 300 million. CZK and increase of the chapter of the Ministry of Education. Agreed opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u129	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 75, 192 Members signed in for 166, there was no one against it. The motion was accepted. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u130	Dale is Amendment E2, Mr Jiří Dolejš, once again, reducing the government's budget reserve by 2 billion. CZK and increase of chapter MŠMT by 200 million, chapter MPSV by 50 million. and chapters of the Ministry of Health by a billion 750 miles. Agreed opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u131	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 76. 192 Members registered, for 167, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u132	Under letter F, my colleague Monika Jarošová's amendment is a reduction in the MIT chapter by 13.5 billion. and an increase in the Chapter of the State Debt Reduction by that amount.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u133	Committee opinion? [[Disagree.]] Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 77. Registered 192 Members, for 21, against 104. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u134	Under the letter G1, Lubomír is Španěl, reducing contributions to the EU budget by 20 billion. Crowns. Inconvenient opinion of the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u135	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 78. Registered 192 Members, for 19, versus 145. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u136	It's G2, Lubomír Španěl, cutting the expenditure of the VUV chapter by 5 million. CZK intended to support non-state profitable entities in the field of gender.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u137	Opinion? [[Disagree.]] Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 79. Registered 192 Members, for 26, against 112. The motion was denied. [[Noise in the hall.]] Another suggestion. And I'd like some peace in the room! I don't hear what the plaintiff says.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u138	Under the letter G3 again colleague Lubomír Španěl, reduction of chapter MŠMT by 2 billion. CZK intended for development programmes for inclusion. Inconvenient opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u139	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 80. Registered 192 Members, for 22, against 114. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u140	Under the letter H1, we have the amendment of Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, and it is a reduction in the government's budgetary reserve by 11 billion. CZK and a reduction in the budget deficit. Inconvenient opinion of the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u141	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. [[The President has been silent.]] Who's against it? Voting order number 81. Registered 192 Members, for 73, against 89. The motion was rejected, and I'm sorry, I've been thinking a little bit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u142	Amendment under letter H2 of Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Reduction of Government Budget Reserve by 16 billion. CZK 16 billion and a deficit reduction of 16 billion. Kč.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u143	Committee opinion? [[Disagree.]] Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 82. Registered 192 Members, for 78, against 98. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u144	Now, the amendment under H3, again, to Mikuláš Ferjenčík, to reduce the government's budgetary reserve by 25 billion. CZK 25 billion and a reduction in the budget deficit by 25 billion. Crowns. Dissenting position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u145	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 83. 192 Members and Members signed in for 78 against 97. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u146	Amendment under I1 to my colleague Věra Kovářová, a reduction in the government's budgetary reserve by 5.35 billion. CZK and increase of chapter VPS by 5.35 billion. Crowns. Dissenting position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u147	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 84. Registered 192 Members, for 63, against 95. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u148	Amendment under I2 to my colleague Věra Kovářová, a reduction in the government's budgetary reserve by 300 million. CZK and increase of the Ministry of Culture chapter by 300 million. Crowns. Inconvenient opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u149	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 85. Registered 192 Members, for 63, against 94. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u150	The amendment under I3 to my colleague Věra Kovářová, is a reduction of the government's budgetary reserve by 500 million. CZK and increase of the chapter of the Ministry of Regional Development by these 500 million. Crowns. Inconvenient opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u151	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 86. Registered 192 Members, for 63, against 91. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u152	Furthermore, Amendment I4 to my colleague Věra Kovářová, it is a reduction in the government budget reserve by one billion crowns and an increase in the Ministry of Transport chapter by that billion crowns. Dissenting position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u153	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 87. Registered 192 Members, for 59, against 94. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u154	Furthermore, I5 to my colleague Věra Kovářová, it is a reduction in the government's budgetary reserve by 600 million. CZK and increase of chapter VPS by 600 million. CZK for the grant substitut 292813. [[correct: subtitle]] Inconvenient opinion of the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u155	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 88, 191 Members registered, for 60, against 98. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u156	Amendment under the letter J - Marian Jurečka. It's an 8 billion reduction in the government's budget reserve. and increase the chapter of MPSV by 8 billion. Inconvenient opinion of the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u157	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 89 registered 192 Members, for 55, against 96. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u158	Next letter To my colleague Vít Kaňkovský - a reduction of the government's budget reserve by 1.5 billion. CZK and increase of the chapter of the MPSV by this 1.5 billion. Crowns. Inconvenient opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u159	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 90 registered 192 Members, for 61, against 95. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u160	Then it is Amendment l to paní Karla Maříková. It is a reduction in the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture by - now to read it correctly - CZK 423 590 516 from the indicator of foreign development cooperation and increase the chapter of MPSV.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u161	Opinion? [[The rapporteur has an objection.]] Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 91 registered 192 Members, for 20, against 150. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u162	Subsequently, it is Amendment N1 by Mr Bartošek: Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u163	Opinion? [[Rapporteur: Dissenting opinion.]] Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 92, 191 Members registered, for 39, against 100. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u164	Finally, the amendment of Mr 2 to Mr Jan Bartošek. It's a five billion reduction in the government's budget reserve. CZK and increase of the chapter of the Ministry of Regional Development by these 5 billion. Crowns. Inconvenient opinion of the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u165	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 93, 192 Members registered, for 39, against 93. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u166	We have thus dealt with all the amendments, and please, Mr President, let the law as a whole be voted on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u167	I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 355/2019 Coll., on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, as amended, according to the House's Press 889, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 94 registered 192 Members, for 104, against 87. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I also ask the rapporteur to present the draft accompanying resolutions of the Chamber of Deputies. [[There's a lot of noise in the room!]] I'll ask for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u168	Colleagues, I'm just going to ask if the petitioners insist that we vote on points, for example, in the case of a colleague named Fiala. No need. Thank you. So we will vote all accompanying resolutions en bloc as one under the plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u169	No, sorry. Mr. Chairman Jurečka reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u170	Thank you. If I may ask, I have given four motions for a resolution, and I ask that each be voted separately so that Members can really evaluate which of the amendments deserves support, because someone can have a reservation on one of the four proposed ones, and I really do not want it to be voted en bloc with one vote. Please give a nice chance, everyone to judge according to their conscience and consciousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u171	I take note, but if colleague Stanjura has no problem, we will vote for colleague Fiala as a whole, which means he has five points. As a whole. The first item is the submission of an audit of expenditure, the second is the submission of a plan to reduce bureaucratic burdens, the third is the abolition of a supergross wage, the fourth is the submission of a draft pension reform, the fifth is the submission of a proposal for a reform of taxes and levies. - Inconvenient opinion of the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u172	Madam Secretary? [[No position.]] So I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 95 registered by 193 Members, for 88, against 14. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u173	I'm sorry. The opinion of the Committee on Budgets has not been set there, I will no longer say it. It is also the accompanying resolution of Mr Jiří Dolejš. First, develop the concept of consolidation of public finances from 2021 to 2027 to 30. 9. 2020. Secondly, providing funding for technical equipment for schools to master online teaching.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u174	I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 96 registered by 193 Members, for 184. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u175	Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík's accompanying resolution must be voted together one way or another because it would be pointless. [[Member Ferjenčík presents his position off the microphone.]] That's for sure, every one of the five, but now we're voting your first resolution, and that has two points, and there would be no point. So, first of all, speed up the process of unifying the collection of personal income taxes on social and health insurance, and second, the government is to inform the Chamber of Deputies on a quarterly basis about the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u176	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. And I'd like some peace in the room. You can't hear your own words. Who's against it? Voting order number 97, registered by 193 Members, for 82, against 16. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u177	That is the second accompanying resolution by Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík - to start the development of a user-friendly system of the so-called clicking budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u178	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 98, registered by 193 Members, for 81, against 17. The motion was denied. Vice-President Okamura to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u179	I only voted in favour of the previous vote, and I noticed that I had been delayed there. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u180	Thank you. Another motion for an accompanying resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u181	Another proposal by Mr Ferjenčík - to prepare measures in the area of transparency of the government's budgetary reserve so that every use of the government's budgetary reserve is published at least three days in advance and sent to all members of the budgetary committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u182	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 99, 192 Members registered, for 85, against 13. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u183	Mr Ferjenčík's fourth accompanying resolution - The Ministry of Agriculture is to carry out a forensic analysis of the emergence of outbreaks and the subsequent spread of bark sludge, secondly, the Ministry of Finance is to carry out an audit to clarify what the funds paid out from the fund of the founder of the Czech Forest State Company to the state budget from 2014 to 2018 have been spent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u184	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 100, registered by 192 Members, for 80, against 16. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u185	Fifthly, my colleague Ferjenčík - to provide sufficient supplies of protective equipment and other material within the state's material reserves to cope with a possible second wave of epidemic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u186	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 101, 192 Members registered, for 89, against 7. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u187	Now, the accompanying resolution by Mrs Richterová - to prepare the necessary infrastructure for possible more extensive testing of the population for the presence of coronavirus disease for 3,000 tests a day, second, to prepare a national test plan. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] 30,000 a day. Sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u188	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. And once again, I ask you to remain calm in the courtroom. Who's against it? Voting order number 102, followed by 191 Members, for 83, versus 3. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u189	The next proposal is Mr Marian Jurečka's proposal. So here we're going to vote on points. Point 1 is to submit detailed implementation of the State budget for the first half of 2020 by the end of July 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u190	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 103, followed by 191 Members, for 86, against 10. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u191	Secondly, send a detailed overview of the implementation of the State budget in the second half of 2020 to all Members at the end of the month.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u192	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 104, followed by 191 Members, for 84, against 12. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u193	In addition, point 3 - submit a medium-term outlook for 2021 to 2023 by the end of September at the latest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u194	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 105, followed by 191 Members, for 83 versus 12. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u195	Fourthly, propose effective savings in the budget of each chapter in 2020 by the end of July 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u196	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 106, followed by 191 Members, for 86, against 2. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u197	It is also Mr Jan Bartošek's resolution. First - ensure by 31. 8. 2020 opening a new call for the Ministry of Finance to support the construction, renewal and operation of municipal infrastructures for municipalities up to 3 thousand. population. [[rental housing]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u198	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 107, followed by 191 Members, for 62, versus 4. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u199	I don't know, co-worker, I think it's useless to vote. Or are we declaring it? Okay, we'll vote. Second, secure a 1 billion allocation. CZK from chapter VPS for these purposes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u200	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 108, followed by 191 Members, for 50, against 6. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u201	So, in my opinion, Mr President, we have fulfilled everything that had to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u202	I thank you, and I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. And I'm done discussing this point. President Radek Vondráček reports with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u203	The honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly 19.00. On the basis of the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs, who present most of this House, I propose that all unnegotiated points of the 54th meeting be eliminated, and then the President closes the 54th meeting. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-015-266.u204	Thank you. It's a procedural proposal. I'm going to vote on him immediately. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 109, registered 186 Members of Parliament, for 147, against 14. The motion was accepted. I'm ending the 54th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm saying that all the points to discuss have been eliminated. We'll continue tomorrow at 9:00 in the morning with an extraordinary 56th meeting. Have a good evening.
