ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u1	1. Proposal for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the period of emergency With the replacement card number 25, Mrs Valachová votes. On this point, we have received a House document 4676, and I ask Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to present the proposal. Prime Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u2	Hello, everyone. Mr President, honourable Members, I come before you for the Government of the Czech Republic with a request for an extension of the emergency situation. Of course, I know that this is not an easy situation for citizens. It's a difficult situation every day for all of us. This is an absolutely exceptional situation, which calls for a quick solution. Believe me, it gives me no pleasure to rule and live in an emergency. Like you, I wish I didn't have to ask you to extend it anymore. Unfortunately, the situation is serious, and I can't promise you that I'm standing here today with my request for the last time. The Government has declared an emergency situation for the territory of the Czech Republic due to health threats in connection with the demonstration of the occurrence of coronavirus by Resolution 194 of 12 March 2020 for a period of 30 days. This was done in accordance with Article 5 and 6 of Constitutional Act No.110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic. I immediately informed you of the announcement of the emergency situation on 12 March 2020 pursuant to Art. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 4 constitutional law on security of the Czech Republic. At this point, we believe that all conditions for declaring emergency conditions under Art. 5 of the Constitutional Act on Security of the Czech Republic are still fulfilled. The Czech Republic continues to remain in a state of legal another danger, which to a large extent threatens people's lives and health, property value or internal order and country security. I would just like to remind you that the government has met 15 times throughout the period of the current emergency situation and has adopted more than 164 resolutions, between which I would mention the ban on the entry of foreigners into the Czech Republic and the ban to travel from the country to our citizens, the introduction of border control, the prohibition of public participation in sporting, cultural and other mass events, the conclusion of shops and catering facilities or accommodation services, with the exception of groceries, drugstores and pharmacies. Some of these bans have been gradually mitigated by the need to open their services to the public. However, it was crucial to introduce compulsory wearing of drapes in public. We all understand that, apart from stopping the epidemic, our crucial task is to keep the economy running and minimise the effects of the crisis. I do not want to haunt the economic downturn here, because I believe that after the crisis has subsided, many businesses will be restored, because there will again be demand for their work. Yet we are working intensively to minimise the negative effects of the crisis on employees, businessmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, as well as small and medium-sized enterprises. But most of all, we need to survive a few months that can be difficult. In the past, however, we have been able to cope with a number of other disasters, and I am convinced that we can do it this time. So that is a few points, because we could certainly have a long discussion about our ideas about reviving our economy. Finally, in connection with this, we will resume the work of an expert economic group in government. However, in this context, I want to point out one more absolutely fundamental thing. The revival of the economy will not go without the influx of more money. That should be clear to all of us. We simply cannot cope with this unprecedented crisis without a massive influx of money to save jobs and the position of companies in the market. All you have to do is look around us at how much individual countries are already pouring into their economies at the start of the crisis, despite all the austerity plans they declared before the crisis. A few comments on the epidemiological situation. According to a recent prediction of the evolution of the disease process, it is estimated that at the end of April we will have about 14 to 15,000 people infected. This, however, provided that all the measures taken are respected. [[10.20 hours]] We were criticized for perhaps being late in securing protective equipment for our paramedics. I don't think so. We have calculated how much material the Ministry of the Interior has supplied, for example, and it is 217 million pieces, 217 million pieces. And from that, 62 million were delivered. And overall, we spent 11.7 billion crowns on medical and protective equipment. The Ministry of Health secured 88.5 million pieces of these aids for 6 billion. So, of course, we have appreciated it, and thank you very much for our dedication, self-help and consideration of all our citizens managed to equip our entire population with cloth masks. And the government's orders are followed. And for that, I would like to thank you again. Once again, our nation has proved that it is creative, that it can improvise, and that it always manages in a difficult situation. And, of course, foreign media noticed that. I'd like to thank writer Ludwig for that great video we've been talking about all over the world. And it wasn't that we bragged like the government. No government in the world has been able to secure these drapes for the entire population immediately. None. And we are doing very well in terms of supply compared to other countries. And we are among the countries that are most solidarity within the European Union. Only to Slovenia did we provide 1.5 million drapes and 220,000 respirators. We have provided thousands of suits to Italy and Spain. We provided medical assistance for France, but eventually France decided not to use it because it improved and so far they managed to cope. What I think is necessary to emphasise is that when the emergency situation was introduced, it was assumed that at the end of March we would reach the threshold of 3,000 infected people. This was considered to be evidence of the effectiveness of the measures put in place, and this assumption was also actually confirmed. So far, the number of infected people is still growing. While at a lower pace than at the beginning, it also creates a prerequisite for more than 15,000 people infected at the end of April, in some scenarios even up to 25,000. For us, it is important that this increase in the number of infected grows slowly and is more spread over time. So far, this is still going well and the disease is sticking to a level that is manageable. The test shows that the number of positive cases is maintained at a stable level of 6 percent of the total number of tested. At the same time, we are working intensively to strengthen the epidemic-fighting system so that we can replace the comprehensive measures with an effective targeted system of smart quarantine, thus ensuring that people are protected without having to live in such limited conditions as we do now. We must therefore continue to respect these restrictions. According to available data, we manage to maintain a relatively low percentage of infections in the 65+ age group, which is also attributed - and precisely - to the effectiveness of our restrictions. The aim of our government is to protect mainly our seniors, but of course the entire population. Our seniors have worked their whole lives building our country, and the virus is the one that threatens them the most. When following the rules set by the government, please think about protecting the most dangerous group - your moms, your dads, your grandmothers, your grandfathers. So please - now I turn to the public - wear drapes, wash your hands, observe the restrictions of movement in public, do not unnecessarily visit your loved ones. Government measures are working, so the emergency situation should be prolonged. This proves that in the most vulnerable group there are 21 to 22 percent of the infected, while in Spain they have more than 32 percent and in Italy more than 30 percent of the citizens aged 70+. This also explains the high mortality rates in these countries. The epidemiology of coronavirus has one essential characteristic. When it gets out of control and there's a sharp growth, it's practically impossible to get it under control again. At that point, we don't have control, but the rules determine the virus. Therefore, let us not put our inhabitants at increased risk by early retreating from the restrictions to date. I still want to clearly and definitively refute speculation about the so-called watering of the population and the call for rapid release of the measures. A process with which countries such as Great Britain, Switzerland, Sweden played at the beginning of the epidemic, relying on them to isolate the older generation and leave the rest of the population to fate - no country has yet implemented it. And now they all face multiple challenges than we do in the Czech Republic. The risk of losing control of the epidemic is too high. Our goal was, is and will be driven, very slow course of the epidemic, under certain favorable conditions perhaps even to stop it. In any case, however, we will prevent uncontrolled, explosive, growth that would overwhelm our health care, massively endanger people's lives and put doctors ahead of who to help and who to keep waiting. That is why we are inspired in countries that manage this path and effectively manage the course of the epidemic while maintaining a relatively normal economic life. This task is not easy, and it may look easier and faster, but the price we would pay for this experiment is too high. We're not going the way of the ocean. Our solution is not the isolation of seniors, but the rapid and effective isolation of infectious people to prevent the spread of the epidemic. We're going the so-called Korean way. By the way to Korea, the virus occurred on 20 January 2020, with us 1. 3. In Korea they have 10 331 infected and 190 people unfortunately died. It's not true that the government has any contradiction in this. I think our coalition government of the ANO and ČSSD movement and Mr Hamáček and I share the same view. We're on the way to a clever quarantine, so let's get on with the road. What is important is that the Minister of Health yesterday established a group within the Ministry of Health, where there will be a number of epidemiologists. Its aim will be to very carefully assess any measure that will disperse the existing scheme from the point of view of its impact and continuity with existing measures. It's clear that the release will occur over time, it won't be viable, it will be controlled. Our government will protect citizens, we want to protect the most vulnerable groups, seniors, sick people regardless of their age. That doesn't change anything. For several years I would like to thank you for the self - sacrificing work of medical personnel, health professionals and others who are on the front line. We may all be aware of the strain of forces not only physical, but above all psychic, all these people are exposed. Let us, therefore, do everything we can to alleviate the pressure on healing capacity, even by consistent compliance with all preventive restrictions. I repeat, today we will express our deepest thanks to all our paramedics for their unimaginable hard work and self-sacrifice, with which they can cope with the current epidemic. I therefore ask Parliament to agree to extend the emergency situation by one month. I am convinced that this is in the interests of every citizen of our country. And please allow me to make a few more comments. I'd like to tell you what my personal values are that I follow every day. First, democracy distinguishes from dictatorship the fact that every single life matters. Everyone. And it doesn't matter if you're two years old or 75 years old. Just every senior, every woman, every man, every child is equally important to us, because their lives are equally valuable to us. Secondly, the pandemic in our country will not mean a return to a powerful and almighty state that controls people's normal lives and watches them. We will not restrict and continue to regulate people's daily behavior. The emergency will end, and we'll go back to living the way he was here before. That's my personal conviction, my impression, the deep feeling I want to tell you. I do not want freedom to be restricted one second longer than is strictly necessary. [[10.30 hours]] Thirdly, coronavirus will not even mean the return of former borders and restrictions on travel. The Schengen area and its four fundamental freedoms, i.e. the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital, are absolutely crucial to us things that we do not want and must not lose. Of course, our country will remain open even after we together defeat the pandemic of coronavirus. And fourthly, we have to be solidarity. And we're solidarity. The principle of European aid and solidarity must not end because of one vicious virus. The opposition colleagues are asking the government to communicate a clear plan for further government measures. Of course, we would like to give you precise measures, but we do not want to raise any false hopes here and to constantly explain why we are changing some steps over time and why we have not done exactly what we had planned. Of course, we have the plans, there are some strategies, but during the epidemic and the easing of area measures, we must proceed with discretion and with reason and react very flexibly to current developments so that we do not lose control. That's why it's virtually impossible to determine exactly what's going to happen in a month. Of course, we can say yes, after Easter, the government will sit down, see how we are on Tuesday in terms of the number of people infected, and we can present some scenarios. Primarily, of course, we want employment to be maintained. That's why we came up with cursarbeit, therefore the support of the tradesmen, the self-employed. And we'll see how these measures work. Of course, we won't see it until the end of April, because we can't predict in advance how many companies will use the programs and how much they won't. We respond flexibly to the development of pandemics, our government meets practically online, but many steps and plans change over time. And that was why during the last meeting I actually offered you the participation of your experts in the crisis staff to be online with all the important information at the moment when our plans were born and addressed. What we can promise is that our government actually works every day from morning to evening and thinks about how to protect the health of our people, our citizens, the public, how to realize a return to normal life. And we are preparing steps that will lead to a return to life before the pandemic. So I think that... And I'm a little sorry that President Bartoš here spoke that the cooperation didn't work. I think we're trying, communicating, your deputies are in the crisis crew, we've got video conferencing with the captains. There's also the mayor, the mayor of Prague. So I think we're also aware of your suggestions and fantasies. And on my part, of course, we are open to continuing this communication. Therefore, in conclusion, with respect and humility, I urge you to comply with the proposal of the Government of the Czech Republic to extend the emergency situation until 11 May 2020. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. Before I open the debate, I recall that according to § 109m para. It is not possible to apply factual remarks in the debate when the Rules of Procedure act on a short-term proposal to express consent to an extension of the emergency situation. The Member may speak not more than twice in the debate, and the House may decide to limit speaking time for up to five minutes, while the limitation of speaking time also applies to the Members responsible for bringing the opinion of the Members' Club on the matter. At this point, I'm registering six applications with priority rights. I ask everyone whether you will allow me to open a debate, that I would let you speak in the debate, or whether you meant to do so before the debate begins. In that case, I have an update... On the other hand, Mr Kubíček wanted to propose the shortening of speaking time. He said before he started. So please, you have the floor to shorten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I suggest we cut the time for the show to five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. I'm asking if there's a counterproposal. I don't see anybody, so I've got a gong to lure the MPs out of the lobby, if necessary. But there are enough of us. We will vote that speaking time will be limited to five minutes. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 3, registered 101, for 60, versus 6. This proposal was adopted. So I am now opening up a debate in which I have six applications with priority rights. The President of Rakušan was the first to sign up here in writing before the start. Then I'll ask President Okamura to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u6	Mr President, honourable members and members of the Government of the Czech Republic, Mr Prime Minister, honourable colleagues, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up on one issue with Prime Minister Babiš. I would also like to stress that we are in a crisis that this world has not known. We are in a situation that we do not know, and every solution that we come up with and have to come up with is a new solution. It's a time that's hard for everyone, but it's also a time that produces new heroes. They are not only mentioned health professionals who are on the front line and often fight this disease in not entirely favourable conditions. They are all citizens of the Czech Republic who have started to help their loved ones. They are all those who sew protective material, they are all those who are willing to deliver food in their spare time to seniors who are willing to help, to give a piece of their own commitment just to make the whole and society better. But they are also our seniors who are the most threatened group. They are exposed to the fact that they are not in contact with their loved ones. They're getting into social isolation. They get into a situation that is very unpleasant for old people, because their joy in life is just meeting with members of their own family. This is all a situation that is unprecedented, a situation that we need to get used to, but that we should not get used to. We're declaring an emergency. And I would still appeal to this, and I would also ask the government of the Czech Republic to see this emergency situation as something quite exceptional, as an institute clearly laid down by law, an institute of extraordinary, an institute essentially limiting people to their fundamental rights and freedoms. The emergency situation should not be something that we should operate on for an unlimited period of time. And I think that we, as citizens of the Czech Republic, deserve one thing from the government: to clearly inform us and speak in one language on this matter. We've seen a whole series of proposals over the last few days. There was talk of one month, 30 days. After that, the proposal was modified to 30. 4. And I think that the unity of communication to the public is very important because people need to see the light at the end of the tunnel. They need to see that the government is acting according to clear criteria and has an idea of how the situation in the Czech Republic will develop. [[10.40 hours]] We hear the government speak many languages. He often performed for the professional public, Mr. MUDr. Prymula, bowing down to him because he's doing a great job at the limit of physical and psychic exhaustion. On the other hand, he will send a message to the public that the measures should be released, he uses the word as an undersea, and we will hear from executive representatives, both Prime Minister and Vice Prime Minister, dementing these words, and actually proposing a procedure other than that proposed by the expert whose decision the government has long based. We ask what is true, what is now the official attitude of the government. Are these the words of the Prime Minister we just heard, or are they the statements of an expert whose advice we have been following here for weeks? I am very pleased that the government is coming with the commission - the Prime Minister said, met yesterday, well, perhaps she could have met a little earlier - where the opposing views of other experts, other epidemiologists, other doctors and people who understand the issue are. This is certainly necessary, because the decision-making is very difficult and must have a clear order. We ask whether this emergency is really an institution that must be extended indefinitely. Yes, we as mayors and independents say - until 30. 4. we are able to support this compromise proposal that we have come to. But at the same time we say - we are willing to meet here every ten days, every fourteen days, and always listen to the government's opinion as things shifted, the numbers shifted, the government and the experts look at the need to keep this situation running for weeks, hopefully not for months. We need that information, and we need to see that it's a clear set of criteria. What we need to focus primarily on right now is protecting the weakest, protecting our seniors. The government is talking about everything being secured. I'm not sure about that. We still have social institutions where there is no aid for seniors and staff, and there is still no massive protest of staff and clients of social facilities, especially in the elderly. This is the first thing we need to focus on, because, as the Prime Minister has already mentioned, if the percentage of illness rises above 22 percent among the sick in the oldest generation, we are getting into trouble and the curve could also develop in the Czech Republic in a bad way. But it's not just clients in senior homes. I am asking the government to focus on the support of cities, municipalities and regions to be able to provide seniors with maximum comfort, for example. in services - delivery of purchases, provision of seniors with delivery of lunches etc. That is all the cities do, but that is what the government should focus on in support of cities, municipalities and regions, because of course they are waiting for it. At present, we would like to see if there is a timetable for the unwinding of the measures that are here. We always hear from the media at random that something will ever happen, but at least the procedure for entrepreneurs, for those small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who have closed their trades and now they don't know what will happen tomorrow, what will happen next week, what will be May 1st. In order for them to have a vision and to plan their future, they simply deserve clear, transparent and open information. And that's probably what I blame the government for most. The awareness of people is chaotic, it's random, and it doesn't give us a chance to predict what's going to happen in the next few weeks. Finally, let me say that the emergency situation as a special regime should not be prolonged for more than 14 days, in this case 18 days. We should still consider where this decisive time is ending so that we can apply laws that are common to the functioning of the state, such as the Public Health Act, according to which most of the measures implemented today simply take place. The emergency situation is a state of emergency, and I ask the government to consider and give us clear information and predictions about when the emergency situation in the Czech Republic should end as an extraordinary institute. And once again, let me thank all the people in the Czech Republic for not spreading the epidemic as it did in other countries. They deserve a compliment and respect for their ability to follow very unpleasant regulations. And let me say that we will overcome the crisis and that we, as a society, if we take a good chance, can come out stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. And next with priority rights, Vice-President Okamura will be prepared by Vice-President Petr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, we do not have much choice on the question of the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the time of emergency. Information on the state of the country, on needs in individual sectors essential to the functioning of the country and especially health care has as a single, up-to-date and detailed information, government. We have no choice but to trust her now and give her a check in quotation marks, with all the responsibility she has and we can only hope that she is learning from the entire chain of mistakes over the past months and her decisions will be more qualified. An example is yesterday's proposal by the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch and the President of Mr Prymula's crisis staff for the widespread exploitation of the entire company by coronavirus, which has rightly frightened all citizens. Members of the SPD will support today's compromise proposal for an emergency by 30 April and, at the same time, with one breath, we add that it is necessary to update the everyday situation, and the SPD members are ready to come to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and vote on the extension or other adjustment of the emergency regime if the current situation so requires. And all we have to do now is appeal to the Prime Minister and to the crisis crew to weigh the measures on the pharmacies' scales, because the principle of all bans and restrictions should be that protecting against the damage caused by the coronavirus should not cause more damage than the virus itself. However, when issuing this check, I must stress that only the country's 100-billion-dollar debts and frozen or collected citizens' purses cannot be the source of funding to pay for the crisis. Multi-national corporations and, in particular, their profits must also pay in crisis. Many of these corporations will earn money from this crisis, and they would certainly like to pass on the cost of people figuratively speaking in the substrip where, according to some TOP 09 officials, they live, as they say, scum. We will defend the interests of this, as you say, scum, and we will again make proposals that will go after taxing the money that flows abroad from this country. These profits are made by Czech hands and Czech brains, but the money is made by multinational corporations. As is known, the SPD has been taking constructively from the start to the government. We do not politicize and provide patiently positive solutions for health, economic and social assistance to citizens affected by the emergency situation. We think it is necessary to pull together to overcome the crisis together. However, government measures are slow and inadequate, and unfortunately, because of this, people have already started to quit their jobs and many people are in economic and social distress. They are employees, entrepreneurs, businessmen, single parents, disabled and old-age pensioners and others. At the same time, the SPD has given many proposals to the government on a gold platter, but they are not accepted. A number of economists and experts are already confirming what I am saying today, pointing to the problem of some government-sponsored restrictions and the high level of damage in hundreds of billions. It is already clear that the health system through large financial reserves will be negative by autumn, and surely no one wants us to reduce care for really severe and bad diseases such as, for the prevention of coronavirus. cancer. Every third resident of the Czech Republic will suffer from cancer during their lifetime. A year later, it is about 100,000 inhabitants, 28,000 of whom die from cancer. [[10.50 hours]] In an up-to-date call to all decision makers, the Rector of Charles University, the doctor and professor of biochemistry, Tomáš Zima, has rightly pointed this out. And I would like to quote him: "Paradoxically now works a number of medical devices for a fraction of capacity, there is neglect of care in other patients with acute but very serious diseases. COVID did not stop other diseases, only for their solution and treatment there is no capacity. The current situation has a negative impact on the overall health of the population - delaying diagnostic and medical procedures, operations and preventive visits to the doctor. The economic downturn is likely to bring down resources for health care, but the current delay in performances may subsequently result in the premature death of a number of people." End of quote. The professor also pointed out what we in the SPD have been calling attention to throughout the crisis. I quote him: "Unfortunately, despite growing desperate warnings and catastrophic forecasts of the development of our country and society, we still lack a qualified plan of the state, its strategy or at least answers to fundamental questions. " And here I would like to ask the Prime Minister, who sits behind me with Secretary of Finance Schillerová, to take this to heart, and when the really professional, renowned public confirms that there are really no prepared scenarios, the forecasts for the development of our country and society, and where the government would like to lead us now to get out of this crisis, then you should already answer the challenge. Because, as I said, more and more people are losing their jobs, getting into an economic and social crisis, and we can't wait. By the way, the Rector of Charles University has also expressed great concern about the devastation effects that continue restrictions will hit every citizen in our country and society for a long time. Once again, I would like to quote him: "It is imperative that the measures taken by the State, their continued duration, proportionality, efficiency and, above all, the area of application be re-evaluated immediately and fundamentally. With these steps, it is necessary to quickly prepare a clear and understandable strategy for the rescue of the Czech Republic for the next months and years, which will be the result of the joint work of the best experts and top experts in the fields of economics, economy and social policy." End of quote. I think, apart from the coronavirus and crisis staff, the government should focus more on the issue of economic issues to overcome the crisis. There are possibilities. The current proposals are basically patches, more or less given by the one who screams more, that will contribute somehow. But we can't talk about a system vision for the next few years. And I say with full seriousness to the government, let us think about the consequences of the current crisis for several years. The solutions we are adopting should therefore be long-term and systemic as far as possible. The delay of some payments a few months is important and necessary, but from this point of view, the cherry on the cake for both employers and employees. Our SPD movement is ready to propose conceptual steps to support Czech companies. We have to let our companies go to public contracts. And here I am openly declaring that we are applying for economic national protection. Otherwise, we will invest public money for a profit that will flow beyond the borders of this country. The state, but also other institutions, have enough professional capacity to prepare the necessary changes, because it is too late today. Of course, we know that the government has had various advice and expert committees for years. In addition to the National Economic Council of the Government, an advisory team of economists was set up within the Central Crisis Staff to deal with the economy. He will be led by the Director of the Global Economic Policy Centre Jan Švejnar. Firstly, we know that no one really listens to experts from the said economic council of the government. Not even the government. And, of course, Mr Švejnar may be a good figure to revive his chances in some future election, but he never introduced real economic visions for this country. The country's strategy must be prepared by the government. That's what he's here for. And that's what we got her for. A truly effective team must lead the Prime Minister. That's his place. We have tripartite, Chamber of Commerce, professional associations and associations. But now the government is adding ad hoc additional advisors. I think we're starting to have too many. It's being rehabilitated. And who actually says the government's official positions? The public is no longer confessing to that. Minister Vojtěch? Minister Havlíček? Professor Prymula? Minister Hamáček? Secretary Maláčová? Now Professor Švejnar's press releases will be added. The Prime Minister is often involved in this, in consultation with media advisors, in order to give an idea or disagree with it. Often in contrast to what others have said, see yesterday's discussion about the watering of Czech society proposed by the Minister of Health Vojtěch Adam and the chairman of the crisis staff Professor Prymula. As a result, there is confusion that worries people unnecessarily. The government, headed by the Prime Minister, is responsible. So I challenge you, please speak with one voice and make it clear that the public has clear and clear information. Finally, there is no mention of updates from Brussels. They're out of their minds or they're making fun of people. In its current opinion, the European Commission stated that it had launched a public consultation on climate objectives. By 20 June, citizens are said to be able to comment on whether to maintain the current target of reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 40 per cent by 2030, or to be more ambitious and to reduce emissions by up to 50 or 55 per cent, I quote. Brains in Brussels have figured out how to solve a medical and economic mega-crisis. Let's just start talking about carbon. And who doesn't like it, according to the European Commission's document last week, he succumbed to the Russian misinformation campaign. Well, there is nothing more to say about what the European Union is doing at the moment. I am pleased that the media are asking the Czech Foreign Minister whether the Rus have contributed more to the European Union's misinformation campaign than the President of the European Commission Ursula von Leyenová, who, at a time when borders are closing, interprets how harmful it is and also criticizes the Czech Republic for closing borders and protecting our citizens without suggesting anything positive for us. This crisis is a good reason to ask what the famous Union has benefited us with in our quotes in the crisis. As far as I know, they tried to ban border closure. That was two weeks ago. Last week, we were condemned for rejecting mandatory quotas that we do not want to accept illegal migrants. And now they're suggesting we debate carbon dioxide. That's really unbelievable. And not just that. Unfortunately, Corona helps to mask infamousness in other areas as well. During the March meeting of the European Council, Austrian Foreign Minister Alexander Schallenberg, together with his Hungarian colleague Péter Szijjártó, suggested that the European Union send Member States' military ships to help Greece to repel the attempt of migrants to further land on the Greek islands. And the motion was rejected in the vote. It was supported only by Hungary, Austria, Poland, Greece, Bulgaria and Romania. And the Czech Republic did not support this proposal. The government of Andrej Babiš of the ANO movement, ČSSD, supported by the KSČM, did not support the proposal of the Austrian and Hungarian Foreign Minister to send assistance to Greece, to protect borders with Turkey against the raid of illegal migrants. On this basis, the Austrian and Hungarian ambassadors to the European Union have tried to achieve, at least, that vessels flying the flag of the European Union are prohibited from bringing migrants fished at sea to ports of the Member States, unless their governments wish to do so. However, this initiative was also rejected in the final meeting of the COREPER Permanent Representatives Committee. And I ask in public, Prime Minister, the Prime Minister sits behind me, why does your government refuse to help Greece defend the Schengen border against migrants and Turkish aggression? [[Turning to the government bench]] Why do representatives of the Czech Republic vote against such assistance? Why is your government lying and acting like it doesn't want migrants, and in fact, the fight against migration at European level is clearly boycotting? Ladies and gentlemen, the epidemic will surely be over soon. And I'm an optimist. And let's be optimistic. And let's be solidarity, let's help each other. A good word among citizens will also help. But unfortunately, the damage at all levels will remain and the consequences will be borne primarily by simple citizens. I will return to the question of the Czech Republic's strategy to overcome the crisis. It is clear that the current health crisis will grow into an economic crisis. With significant probability, it will grow into a crisis of security, food, energy, and geopolitical. And I filed an interview with the Minister of Agriculture Toman the week before last, asking what kind of strategy the government has in place to ensure food security and self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic. We haven't heard that from the government either. [[11.00 hours]] Prime Minister, I must say that this is a very important subject, because we are not self-sufficient in eggs, milk, beef, pork, chicken, fruit and vegetables to join the European Union. We have to import potatoes, carrots, onions, parsley, celery. But if it is, that's why the prices are so high. And now the crisis is threatening to continue in Western Europe. And what happens if these commodities aren't delivered to us? And as you know, this is not an invention here by Tomio Okamura, but also by importers of fruit and vegetables already publicly warns, the past week that there is a risk of a shortage of fruit and vegetables in the Czech Republic. We do not have our own because ten percent of the area is grown rape, on other areas there are solar islands and so on, solar units etc. So I've been waiting two weeks for the answer from the Minister of Agriculture to Toman, but I would welcome the answer from you, what is the government's strategy at all, if any, because if it doesn't start to think about it now, at this point, and if these crops don't plant in the Czech Republic, there's a real food problem if it's in Western Europe, there are any markets that export to us, if there are any problems. If we are really to defend the interests of the Czech Republic, we must decide on the fundamental issue today, and that is our country's membership in the current European Union. To remain is to destroy the statehood of the Czech Republic and to destroy our nation in multicultural tyranny. Leaving means surviving. It is clear that we will not be alone, and other countries are about to leave. Anyone who doesn't see it is politically blind. So far in this government, unfortunately, I see only great fear of admitting it, and also open submission to the gradual demise of the country and the nation. This is the basic strategic question today, the fundamental question of the new framework for the anchoring of the Czech Republic in Europe, where the subsequent crises will take place. This is what I am talking about in connection with this current crisis. It is no secret that the SPD is seeking to leave the European Union. If we say that the Czech Republic comes first, we must strive to do so. Finally, let me thank all citizens again, whether professional or street helpers, but also those who patiently observe and respect existing measures. Thank you all. I wish them a lot of health and I would like to ask all citizens if you are buying, support Czech entrepreneurs. Support your businessmen selling through a window or delivery. I also want to wish everyone a nice Easter. Have a good day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Vice-President Fiala. President Pekarová Adamová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u10	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, the last time we met here, I summed up my speeches in a few sentences, namely fifteen. I wanted to make it clear that I understand the need to act quickly and that neither I nor the Civil Democratic Party wanted to delay even one more minute. Of course, there is still a need to act quickly today, but there is also a need to act wisely. After a month, it's finally time for that precipice to begin to balance with a clear plan as to what to do. People in the Czech Republic are responsible citizens, they endure hard times truly admirably, but it is necessary and it is time to give them a clear plan as we move on. The impromptuness and improvisation that may have been understandable in those first days and weeks must be over. We've had practically a whole month where our lives have focused on one of the most important things - how to slow down the proliferation of pandemics, how to slow it down at any cost. And he was the right target. That's why when the government came with restrictions, we supported the government. That's why when the government shut down our entire country, we supported the government. That is why we called on people to discipline, responsibility, tolerance and mutual assistance. That's why people joined together. And that is why the government had support for its actions from those who do not normally believe it, and that is why we somehow managed to do it together in the first phase. And when we saw that the government was unable to prepare an economic bailout plan, we handed in a helping hand and three quarters, at least three quarters of the proposals that we approved last time and which are here on the table before us today, first put the opposition on the table in public space. And we have even swallowed some unpleasant things, for example, that the government has put these original proposals forward unnecessarily slowly, incomprehensiblely chopped, and we have always supported the government with the vast majority of things. And we even heard that we were supposed to be quiet. But the period of this tolerance ends. And it has to end. It's the end of the period when the government received a blank check from us. We've managed so far, and let's face it, we've handled it through the self-sacrificing people in the front line, thanks to the responsibility and dedication of citizens, through the self-help of people who secured the drapes and other protective devices. But the government is no longer enough with PR about the masks that people have made themselves. And even the Prime Minister can't look like he's inventing a mask himself. To restart the Czech Republic to deal with the consequences of this crisis, this will not be enough. And it is not possible to go on so that one day there is talk of a continuation of strict restrictions, of closing borders for years, like two, and in a few days we hear that there is a need for something to be released and for our country to be soaked. It is not possible for members of the crisis staff and governments to argue about this publicly and that such serious strategies and considerations on such serious matters should be learned from the media. It is not possible for media people to learn what we will ever reopen, always according to when and how the Prime Minister wants to make a headline in the media. It is not possible for the Prime Minister to announce "we are opening" to the people, and the chief of the crisis staff was in control - "neither for nothing." It is not possible for the chief expert of the crisis staff and government to announce "we are going to sea" and the Prime Minister said to him, "No way." It is not possible to propose such assistance to businessmen for whom the government must apologize within 24 hours. It is not possible for the government to try to push through laws in an emergency regime that are actually unrelated to the coronavirus crisis. And there can be no plans and there can also be no disregard for the debate with the opposition. At this point, I must remind the government that if it were to listen to the opposition and if it didn't look condescending, we had a proper debate here in this House at the end of January about the onset of the pandemic, and we could be better prepared for the start of the crisis, and we could be better equipped and not be so improvised. And that's why we're asking for a plan from the government today. And we're not asking for just one plan. The first plan we have the right to demand from the government is a plan to renew our freedom to restart our country. I very much support that we gradually return our Republic to normal life, to turn on what has been disabled, but so far I am just listening to some random statements, e.g. how pupils in kindergarten or at the first level of school will sit a meter apart, and not two, as it was recently, the necessary distance. And how do we do that? This is not a plan. It's improvisation. Improvisations, which seem to have been ripped out of practical life and the experience that we have with schools and children. I am talking about an exact plan, which must include how we protect the endangered groups, how and whom and under which circumstances we will gradually return to normal life and what criteria, because the criterion that the Prime Minister may go on television and wants to take action is not a criterion, it is not a plan, it is not something that will suffice us. I very much support planning to restart our country, but I want to hear the criteria, for example the testing plan. This is, according to experts, a fundamental condition. And we hear experts say that the test is inadequate and that the plan is still missing. So this condition is not met because the data we're getting acquainted with daily are distorted to some extent, it's correct there, it's not the number of tested, it's the number of tests, and that's something, it's something completely different. People who provide various kinds of services, business operations, have the right to know what the government is planning. They have a right to know how long they will not be able to carry out their activities. They have a right to know what they're counting on. And Parliament's government is supposed to come here with such a plan and at least inform us. It is not a requirement that is not feasible. Governments in other countries have come up with such plans, such plans are publicly known and, according to such plans, companies, the public, can proceed. [[11.10 hours]] And the second plan that the government should be planning, and ladies and gentlemen, here I am a realist, and I know that such a plan could not be put forward by the government today, nor do I want it to be, but I call on the government to present a plan within two or three months that I would call a new small programming statement by the government - updated priorities. Because it is clear that their current policy, the policy that the government has been doing until the outbreak of the crisis, is now absolutely useless and it is not possible for the government to exist in some nobody and nothing irresponsible modem for another year and a half. That's completely out of the question. So I expect the government to come up with some new little programming statement in the near future, of course, in the order of months. But what I would expect today and what we haven't heard in the Prime Minister's performance so far is a plan for weeks and months to come. My colleagues will comment in detail on the specific government proposals that we will be discussing today at this and the next meeting, especially at the next meeting. And I would ask the government very much to take our hand into account, not just the Civil Democratic Party, but most other opposition parties, and also to take into account that more proposals here have the support of the entire opposition. But I also call on the government to come to the House as soon as possible with a project to restore freedom and start our country. People deserve to see perspective. People need to see the overall picture, and we, as opposition, want to participate in this definitive form, and we want to participate in it, too, so that we can stand up for it so that we can restore normal life in our country with the understanding and support of citizens. The extension of the emergency situation without explaining what it is needed for, without explaining what the government needs it for, what steps it is going to take, such an extension - even more than a month - is extremely problematic. And if we are even to agree, under these conditions, to extend the emergency situation without really knowing what the government needs it for, then we can only do this for a very short or necessarily long time, which is two weeks. But what I'm saying here is, in this mode, in this form without a plan, it's the last time. The government must put an end to the chaotic period of publicly communicated, instantly denied or corrected ideas, and present clear steps to what will happen next. We haven't heard a clear plan yet, we haven't heard it today. And that's no way to proceed. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been through a difficult but even easier part of the journey. We've had a lot of luck, people on the front line, people in other services working and still working with great commitment. Most citizens are responsible, disciplined. And that's for the first phase, for the first part of the trip, to shut down our country, that's enough for this part. But on the other side of the road, safe, intelligent and organized startup won't be enough. The government has to come before us and the citizens with a plan, a script, an itinerary, whatever you want to call it, but something like that must be on the table. And we're ready. We are as ready as we are for a constructive debate, and if there is a clear and good plan, we are also ready to support this challenging operation in the coming weeks and with great probability of months. But such a plan is missing, we haven't heard it today, and the government owes it. And he owes it not only to us, but he owes it primarily to the public. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. And next up, with priority rights, Mrs. President Pekarová Adamová. Minister Hamáček will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u12	Mr President, honourable Members, gentlemen, dear government, dear public, I would like to start by thanking all citizens of the Czech Republic, who are very patient in following all the regulations and measures that have significantly affected their rights. Most, the vast majority have really come together in this difficult situation and behave very responsiblely and our great admiration for it and with humility thank you very much for it. The patience, of course, can't be bottomless. And in order to continue to work together in this way and to be responsible, they also have the right to know what will happen next, how the situation will develop. And, of course, even if the future is still covered by doubt in many ways, and it is in its essence only in possible variants, it is fair and it is necessary to tell the public at this point. We can call it whatever it is, but I would call it as they approach it in the surrounding countries, Germany and Austria, exit strategies, exit exits, or return to the normal life that we were accustomed to. Of course, the journey will not be easy and it will certainly be long. But the moment the government comes before us with a 30-day emergency extension request, I would absolutely expect that this request will also include such detailed justification, this strategy. Unfortunately, although I have listened very carefully to the Prime Minister, to a number of questions that the public is asking, which we are certainly all asking ourselves, we have not received answers, and on the contrary, in many cases, I would say that we have been more and more insecure in the last few days, because the expressions of the various ministers, members of the Central Crisis Staff, such as Mr Prymula, are indeed different. It's completely diametrical. The first request I want to ask you to make here is, please, publish this strategy, which you will now follow, which I hope, and I think it's natural for crisis management, perhaps we've been going on for a week. We want to extend the emergency situation here now. So how has it worked so far? Because if I consider that only yesterday, which is 37 days from the first infected in the Czech Republic, the Minister of Health has established an expert group of epidemiologists, as the Prime Minister has said in the speech and, as we have learned in the media, then I ask: why so late? How did the decision-making of individual measures and all other things work until then? That certainly doesn't add to my peace, and I don't think anyone in public space, any of the citizens. I think the key to coming out of this crisis and really coming out of it is not only informed, but also strengthened, fair and true, but also completely informed. Informing about what's going on and why it's going on. You, Prime Minister, said today that after Easter, the government will sit down and you can present the scripts. I ask: why after Easter? How come you don't have them here today? How come the government doesn't come up with the scripts after all the meetings that it has almost every day? By the way, exactly during the last meeting of the House, we asked for this, and we repeatedly ask for it at our meetings that took place. This way, more than a plan, the whole situation seems to be in chaos. [[11.20 hours]] Thus, the contradiction between the individual statements will not add to the peace and we could also be inspired in this, because in Germany, the government has clearly given a strategy of silence until it begins to put a single matter into life. In other words, they do not just share opinions, suggestions, they do not share an idea with the public, but they only communicate the decision that is valid and that they really want to put into life. Any such decision should be clearly justified as to why it is necessary, why it is necessary and how it is linked to the crisis plan. These are fundamental questions that must be answered immediately when any regulation is issued. This cannot be underestimated, and this is exactly what leads to people's trust that their patience should continue and that they can really rely on what it will be. I think now we're thinking, a whole bunch of us, a huge number of questions. I'd like to hear some of them answer here. I think that the public in particular has the right to do so and that we need to know what the government wants to use it for to prolong the emergency situation. If it should be the way we hear from the media from the Minister of the Interior, Mr Hamáček, for the purchase of protective equipment, so that he can continue outside the Public Procurement Act, I offer a solution. You don't have to prolong the emergency at this point, we don't have to have it here for another 30 days, we just need to adjust this law. In an accelerated procedure we are now able to submit - or are you able as a government, because it can only be the government at this time, so you are able to submit a number of laws. So let's present one that will solve this particular measure, which will offer a way out here at the moment. We'd love to meet, and we'd be happy to support a novel like this. We'd love to. If that's the main reason, we have a solution. If there are other reasons, but we want to know their clear characteristics, we want to hear them. We have heard much about clever quarantine - one of the examples of how the government expects people to move in the next few weeks. So far, however, we have very little information on how precisely it will evaluate the operation that started in the testing regime in South Moravia. So we want to know what it looks like at the moment, what the phase is already going on. We want to know clear guarantees that this quarantine will really only be temporary, that the data that is collected will be dealt with perfectly sensitively under the law and that there will really be no public doubt at the moment that it could be abused in any way. That's one of the questions that I'm sure a lot of people are thinking about. We want to know how the health planning is progressing. That, of course, is one of the main areas where we all look. As this will continue with patients who are not now positive with regard to conavir but who have other health problems. There aren't fewer people here who need medical attention for heart attacks, cancer, and other very serious diseases. So far, this care has moved into such an emergency state as well, which means that it is really only the most difficult to deal with. But we now need to know what will happen next with patients who need this help, when restrictive measures that concern, for example, parents, how will it look with preventive care. We must also remember that if we put it off for a long time, we are creating a big problem in the future, because these diseases will certainly not go away. Come give us a clear answer to this. Tell me how you want to protect the risk groups. It's not just from the age of seniors, but it's people who have chronic diseases that have reduced immunity. We know this is a big problem, and how do you intend to approach them? The moment we hear from a part of the government that it should start with immunization, so-called. By sea, so from the second we hear that no. But if we are finally going to approach this, what exactly is going to happen to the protection of risk groups? How's this gonna work? Then, of course, people are very worried, and these fears need to be distracted. So what about the protection of all other groups of residents in terms of protective equipment? At one point, there was information that the drapes would be sent out. Is that still true? Have any of them been distributed, or have they receded? What's going on with the next release of restrictions on each of us, every normal life in terms of schools, about the opening of borders? These are fundamental questions that people ask themselves. And, of course, testing and number of persons tested. Also, promises differ significantly from reality, because if you look at the older statements that were in the media, at the end of last month there was a promise of 10,000, and eventually even 20,000 tests a day. So far, we're not getting close to this number, we're not even halfway there. So when will this particular promise of testing be achieved, when can we be confident that the reality will be nearing those promises? Homes for seniors. One of the areas that remained very underrated. It was only after many weeks that these facilities were equipped with protective devices, and many of those regulations, which were subsequently imposed on senior homes, only when it turned out that even there was a disease and people began to die, so the measures that were to be implemented in them began to be imposed, but were often outside the reality of feasibility. So will those who published them fix it? Will the Ministry of Health correct this in such a way that it can actually be observed and helps to prevent any further spread of disease in these homes and the most vulnerable from being exposed to it? Many municipalities are now trying to and very subjugating the state in this area. There are examples of municipalities that have provided their own laboratories for testing staff in senior homes. They try to get all the material they need, try to help so that people don't have to be so worried. Fear is what paralyzes us at this point, and it is completely understandable, but we must do everything we can to prevent such developments from continuing in these facilities. And in that regard, there are once again different expressions of the government's representatives. That's not what Minister Maláčová says. That's what the Minister of Health says. One wants to test completely across the board, the other says it's impossible. One says the seniors are supposed to be in hospitals, even if they're easy to run. The other one says it's impossible. Could you please discuss these matters with each other first before you speak publicly to the media? Because once you don't, once you don't agree and act like this, you're really testing people's patience, and you're gambling very much as they continue to be able to follow those measures, and then there's a needless increase in fear and fear among people. There would be a number of other conflicting expressions. So I've just given some of the examples here. So I want to ask you again about the strategy. I would ask you to present it to us so that you can at least tell us how you will proceed and how specifically you intend to evaluate that the steps you are taking are successful. Based on what parameters? Also reveal who is specifically involved in the decision-making of the individual steps in the field of expertise, that is, who are the experts you consult in the framework of epidemiology plans, when you have already set them up yesterday. I think that in this regard either you should make the right point, that by then you are already working with them on a daily basis, or you are... and it was just a misrepresentation that has been made here, or really introduce them and tell them how you will proceed. [[11.30 hours]] I want to thank all those who find themselves in this difficult situation not only in the front line, but also all parents who now take care of their children at home and play the role of a school who try to take care of their grandparents from a distance, for example, their older parents. It's a difficult situation for everyone. I thank them for the patience they still have. But in order to continue, I ask the government to introduce the exit strategy to all citizens, so that, today, when the emergency is prolonged, it will inform the House. We are willing to support the extension of the emergency situation for a very long time, for which we certainly do not consider the month, but are able to support it without any problems if it is answered, the extension by fourteen days or until 30. 4. But I don't think it's necessary to give longer time at this point. We're willing to meet again anytime and decide again. By the way, we have a proper meeting called, so it is possible to place such a point on it without a problem. And there's no need to extend for up to 30 days at this time. However, it is necessary to answer a number of questions that hang in the air unanswered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. Now, with priority rights, it is the Minister's turn, then Vice-President Filip. The gentlemen have agreed to switch in order, because the Vice-President will be in charge of the meeting. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u14	Thank you. Mr President, members of the Government, Madames and gentlemen, let me say a few words on the Government's proposal to prolong the emergency situation in the Czech Republic. We are moving in a system of constitutional law that transfers the responsibility of the government to the entire Chamber of Deputies, because our decision will no longer be just a government that is responsible for decisions that concern all citizens of the Czech Republic, and it will be the responsibility of all of us. And it's so good because, of course, the duration of the emergency means that people are asking more and more questions. The truth is, it's our duty to answer them. On the other hand, we should answer those questions ourselves, and some of the questions that have been raised here before are a bit of a shock to me because the National Pandemic Plan, which was approved in 2011 and which is valid, answers a number of questions. But we can ask if the government is preparing another, its change, its clarification, etc. We're moving in a state that points to the individual risks that are at risk here in the pandemic. And those risks can be divided into the risks of resources, tracing and also the disease that will occur in the Czech Republic. Here it must be said that the National Pandemic Plan has been implemented, and I am glad that the government has taken these measures on time and properly, even though I have not fully understood a number of things, I have sought - and not only me, but our entire political party has sought to make some measures much more stringent. I will give a specific example, which, of course, provokes great controversy, and this is the question of Pendlers and the transfer of Czech borders from abroad and abroad, because in our South Bohemia region or in the Pilsen Region and other 119 infected 74 are infected by those who crossed national borders either from Austria or from the German Federal Republic, with Prague being the second largest source for South Bohemia. It's no small thing. And when we track each other, we figure out what kind of trouble that could cause us. And I understand that some of the mayors of small municipalities want to stand up for their citizens who have jobs abroad, but I think that we evaluate the situation especially here and create a situation for Czech citizens that we are able to manage and, unlike neighbouring countries, we also manage better. She may, of course, be retreating, but ending it, I assume it will be after the outbreak, those sources, means that we will be able to end the emergency for more than 30 years. 4. Now, let me make a positive suggestion. That I suggest that the emergency that the government is presenting should be extended by the Chamber of Deputies until 30. Four, for two reasons. The first reason is that most of the economic and other measures relating to pandemics are directed towards 30 April. And the second reason is that when we are responsible for this as Members of the various political parties, it is up to us to assess before 30. 4. whether the emergency should last and how long, if it will then be thirty days or fourteen days, and that really depends on the evaluation that the government will submit to us according to the pandemic plan. It is now clear, even without the government's justification, that for this 30. 4. here are the reasons for extending the emergency state, and I will extend it to 30. 4. I fully support and propose this deadline. Let me make one more comment. Of course, we can drown in petty things and blame the government for that or that. On the other hand, it is up to us, as representatives of the political parties who have been elected to the Chamber of Deputies, to create an environment in the Czech Republic that will guide us to cope with the situation in a uniform way at any time. I understand the Director of Regional Hygiene in Prague that she would be in favour of the water supply when it is the second largest disease center for the whole Czech Republic, but on the other hand, I think it is important that all citizens feel comfortable so that we can also provide health care, which is currently at the edge of interest given how much the capacity is being used for by the pandemic. I believe that by managing the disease, by deciding to extend the emergency situation, we will be responsible for the direction in which it will develop and also bear responsibility for how soon the emergency situation will end. I am convinced that we are able to bear that responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u15	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. And I marked my proposal for an extension up to 30. 4. in the context of the debate. Minister Hamáček has the floor. Mr. Kaňkovský will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u16	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, allow me also a few words on the current situation and on why the government is coming to the Chamber of Deputies and asking for a 30-day extension of the emergency situation. I want to make it clear that from my point of view, we are all in a situation we do not know. What we are facing is the biggest security challenge for the Czech Republic since World War II, and we are all trying to cope with the situation and we are trying to cope with it. If you're asking us what the target is, the goal is, of course, to handle the situation and defeat the virus. And how are we going to do that? We want to do this in such a way as to put our citizens as little as possible at any unnecessary risk. That is, if we are taking measures that may look draconian or harsh, we are only doing this to break down the impact of the epidemic in time, and we are doing this to eliminate or limit the impact to the maximum on our health system, which, of course, has some capacity. It's professionally called suppression first, then mitigation, but I don't think it's necessary to go into details. [[11.40 hours]] What do we need for this? We need the government to be able to operate in the regime that the Czech Republic and its laws presume. And you know that when the government started reacting to the situation, we were often blamed for moving somewhere outside, moving outside the laws that are written for it, such as the law on security or the law on crisis. That a number of measures are implemented by regulations of the Ministry of Health under the Act on the Protection of People's Health, and even lawyers have pointed out that although the emergency has not been formally declared, the Czech Republic is already in it de facto. On March 12, the government responded by declaring an emergency. And I am aware that these laws restrict the government, and that is why we are standing here today in the Chamber of Deputies asking you to comply with the government's request and extend the emergency situation. Of course, we are prepared to answer a number of questions, but frankly, none of us has a detailed plan A, B, C, D, how we can handle the epidemic, because the situation is constantly evolving. When I listened to the debate in the United States, Dr. Fauci's theorem stuck in my mind, which is America's top expert. He says, if I paraphrase his statement, the only person who has a plan is the virus. And we need to prepare ourselves for how to face this plan and how to handle it. So we're ready to explain everything to you. We're ready to explain to you why we're moving forward, but please don't ask us to make a plan with progressive targets, benchmarks. The Chairman of the Pirates asks when the turning point is. I can answer that. Yes, if it turns out that the curve isn't going to grow exponentially, but it's going to break somewhere and get into some kind of plane, that's the moment we can say yes, the worst is over, and we can have fun as far as we go. But as long as these cases grow, and thank God they don't grow as much as in some states west of us - and of course we have the mathematical models. I just want to inform you that if we were to grow at the pace of Italy, we have 85,000 infected today. Spain's Temple would be 78 and at the rate of Germany 52. We are slightly below 5,000, so it turns out that the barrier measures have worked, but at the same time it turns out that we certainly do not have room to celebrate. We're at the beginning. Maybe when I think of Winston Churchill's speech, it's the end of the line, but we're definitely not at the end. And there are a number of challenges and a number of measures that we will have to take. Of course, I'm very closely following the situation west of us. Now the situation is developing very dramatically in the UK, and I think that the example of the British Prime Minister - and I wish him a speedy recovery and I wish him to cope - shows how insidious the virus is and that he simply does not choose. So please, let's not fall into any euphoria that we've done all of this, and now we're just gonna have a bright tomorrow. No. The situation will still be difficult and this optics must also be viewed as a possible release of these measures. And I am convinced, given what I have said here, that the government simply needs to know, and not just the government, but all those who stand on that front line need to know what conditions we're going to be in. The crisis law is written for a time of crisis, and we're just in crisis. And I respect the fact that the Chamber of Deputies has the right to disobey the government and extend it only for 14 days. Okay, so we'll meet here again in 14 days, we'll review this discussion, and we can talk about whether or not the government will get the next 14 days. But I believe that if we have mechanisms for a time of crisis, we should use them and use them properly. That means, I'd like us not to bring any uncertainty into this whole system so that we don't sway the boat unnecessarily, so that we don't just say, "we'll change our minds, we'll see." I respect the right of the Chamber of Deputies to say that it will not give the government a full 30 days, that it will only be 14. I'm ready to perform here in the next two weeks, recapitulate what the government has done, and ask for another extension. However, I say again, the situation is not simple, we are not at the end and some very difficult decisions are still waiting. I also try as President of the Central Crisis Staff to communicate with all the political forces and entities, I try to explain the steps we are doing, and I am ready for that in the future. I would very much like the House of Deputies to comply with the government, it would be easier for us. Somewhere in an interview, I said to cancel the emergency situation - which the House isn't going to do, I don't want to push anything, but hypothetically, when we talk about ending the emergency situation, it's the same thing as taking a syringe from firefighters in the middle of a firefighter and leaving a fire extinguisher. That would be a huge complication. At the same time, I say that extending the emergency does not mean automatic extension of all the measures taken by the government. The emergency situation is only a legal framework in which we move and can move, and it gives the government certain possibilities of crisis management, of course. And I think it's so good, and I say again, whenever I'm ready to come in and make accounts of what we're doing. I would like the Chamber of Deputies to comply with the government. As I perceive the atmosphere, I don't think that's gonna happen. We will leave with an extension of the crisis for only 14 days, but I thank the Chamber of Deputies for that, too, because the worst thing would be if we really lost the syringe now and stood without the appropriate means we need. Finally, let me thank again those who are doing their utmost today to cope with the strain of the virus, whether they are paramedics, whether they are firemen, policemen, soldiers, postmen and all others, I'm sure I've forgotten someone, it's not an intention. Thank you all, and we can do this together. And I ask the Chamber of Deputies to comply with the Government's proposal if it fails to comply with it, so that it will at least comply with the amendment until the end of April. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u17	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, for his performance. And now I have two more, one with priority rights for the club's opinions, Mr. Vít KaňkovskKaňkovský and then President Miroslav Kalousek, also with priority rights. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u18	Dear Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, allow me to introduce you to the opinion of the KDU-ČSL Parliamentary Club on the request of the Government of the Czech Republic to extend the duration of the emergency situation in the Czech Republic. Based on current epidemiological developments, KDU-ČSL is ready today to support an extension of the emergency situation by 14 calendar days, based on a discussion here in the Chamber of Deputies until 30 April of this year. We have made this decision on the basis of a complex and thorough discussion within our parliamentary club, but also with our expert analysts. We believe that there is no reason to prolong the emergency until 11 May, although I understand the reasons mentioned here by the President of the Central Crisis Staff, Minister Hamáček. We are ready to return to the issue of extending the emergency situation at any time, but we believe that the risks associated with the duration of the emergency situation must also be perceived. We have supported the use of the Emergency Institute since 12 May and we support the vast majority of the preventive measures put in place by the government in this direction. [[correct: March]] In this we have no greater criticism. But I see no reason at the moment, and neither do my colleagues, so that, if we have a chance to meet again here in 14 days, on the basis of new data, we have not returned to the emergency issue, and if necessary, the KDU-ČSL is ready to renegotiate and possibly support further extension. But there is no reason for us to do this now, at this point, because every day of the extension of the emergency situation is a major intervention in a democratically functioning society. It has a significant impact on economic, social, but also on health. I would like to mention here one example of how the emergency situation interferes with the life of Czech society, and it is not a criticism, it is just a need to realize what the situation looks like. It is not directly related to the emergency situation, but to the measures taken by the government under the emergency regime. I am as a doctor, and my colleagues are on this every day at the moment confronted with a situation where we have to decide which medical procedures are deferred at this time and which are not. [[the same]] The government has issued an order that we are to postpone the planned performance in health care establishments at the moment, and again it is not a criticism, the epidemiological development was such that it was necessary to take such a step. And we who do medicine know that there are a number of performances that can be postponed by a week, by two, by three, maybe by four, and most patients do not have any health damage. But if the condition is prolonged longer, then we are already in a rather uncomfortable situation, both medically and ethically and legally. [[11.50 hours]] And here it is necessary to perceive the concerns of a number of Czech citizens, a number of Czech patients who suffer, for example, from oncological diseases, but it also applies to cardiacs, people with multiple sclerosis, people after spinal injuries, and we would find a whole series of diagnoses. All paramedics at the moment are doing their utmost to prevent any of these patients from getting hurt. These medical conditions are assessed very individually and the efforts of the paramedics to avoid any delay are maximum here. However, many of these treatments and diagnostic procedures are delayed after all. And this cannot be allowed forever. So that, too, is one reason why we should consider the Emergency Extension Institute in this context and see these health risks as well. There are patients who may not be at risk of coronavirus - or may be at risk, but there is a much greater risk to them if they do not perform a specific treatment or diagnostic procedure within a certain time frame. So much for me as a paramedic to those certain contexts that need to be seen in terms of the further extension of the emergency situation. There is also a need to see a hard economic impact. That's what we've been talking about many times. I am not an economist, but we all know that the landing after the economic crisis will be very hard. And that's what needs to be perceived. This is certainly not the first place at the moment, but we cannot avoid the risks arising from this again. And once again, as a paramedic, I can't forgive the health context. At this point, there are models that say that the decline in public health insurance will only be between CZK 30 billion and CZK 40 billion this year. This is a major intervention that health insurance companies are able to cover from their reserves for 2020. But then there's a big but. Health care facilities are precisely those measures in the consequences of the coronavirus crisis that have reduced their production, its performance, somewhere up to three quarters, in a number of health establishments by up to three quarters. At the same time, the fixed costs remain with them. In addition, there is an increased cost of treatment for patients with conavir. During the next months of this year, some of these medical devices will certainly catch up to some performances, but certainly not to 100 percent. And then there's this crisis situation that's going to happen sometime in June next year, when those medical devices are going to be billing from health insurance companies, and that's when the critical phase is going to happen, when it's going to be needed in some way to help those medical devices. In this respect, I propose to the Government that this be addressed at this point and that it prepare a proposal to valorise payments for public policy holders for 2021. We have calculated this with the analysts, and at this point we see it as necessary, and so I suggest to the government that the government withdraw the proposal to valorise the payments for state insured people by CZK 500 for next year. This is precisely the amount that would save us the loss that will be in the financing of Czech health care with nearly six million state insured people. And, of course, the loss could be even bigger in the finals. So once again, the KDU-ČSL club wants to work with the government and cooperate with the government in dealing with the coronavirus crisis and we are ready to continue to do so. However, we think that it is much better to prolong the emergency situation gradually if the situation so requires, than to approve some Bianko check today, which I certainly do not think the government would take advantage of in any way, but every day the emergency situation that will not occur is a win for the Czech Republic. And now a few more questions and suggestions that I have for the government to address the coronavirus crisis. The first circuit is about the so-called intelligent quarantine. As a paramedic, I can say that I agree with her principle in principle. However, the government needs to prepare this project very well. I know it's testing now. We should see some of the first results of the pilot testing on the Central Crisis Staff tomorrow. But there are some technical problems that need to be solved. The principle of intelligent quarantine assumes relatively large volume testing both of the selected persons, but it is also necessary to periodically conduct cross-section testing on a population sample. And again, in the last few days, we have encountered a situation where a number of sampling points did not have sampling kits and a number of laboratories did not have test kits. Here, the government really needs to cooperate with Czech producers on this, because, for example, those collection kits are able to be produced by Czech producers. And we, as well as the Central Crisis Staff, put contacts in the work committee on specific Czech companies. So here, I would like to call on the government to work intensively on this, because without enough testing, a smart quarantine cannot work. The second stimulus and question and the topic for the functioning of a smart quarantine is the protection of sensitive data. It is very surprising to me that the Office for Personal Data Protection has not been invited to the task force, which deals with the technical issues of the functioning of the smart quarantine. If we are getting into sensitive patient data, albeit with their consent, regarding banking secrecy regarding mobile operators, then these are very sensitive data. We are all aware of the extraordinary nature of the current situation, but the protection of personal data cannot be ignored under these circumstances. Therefore, I call on the Government to invite a member of the Office for Personal Data Protection to the Commission. Then I would also like to mention the release of restrictive measures. It's been said here, too. This is a very sensitive matter, which needs to be very seriously prepared by the government's expertise. If, in advance of these steps, we hear every other day and sometimes three times a day the contradictory expression of the members of the government, it does not work well for the public. And I say this, knowing that the public in the vast majority supports the government's actions, and I think that is quite a good report card for the government. But if there comes an unsettling statement from the members of the Supreme Leadership of the Central Crisis Staff, it seems confusing to the public and it doesn't make her aware. So here I want to challenge the government, if you're going to, and we're calling on you to do that, a plan to release restrictive measures, so keep two important things in mind. Firstly, that they need to be prepared after a thorough expert discussion - this cannot be a political decision - and then communicate very well with the public so that the public is prepared for how restrictive measures will be released. And then there's the third one that needs to be emphasized. It is necessary to ensure the protection of those risk groups of the population as much as possible, it has already been said here. They're seniors, they're comorbid patients, they're a whole range of people who aren't older age categories, but they have a whole range of associated risk diseases. This, too, needs the government to clearly state the criteria under which these restrictive measures will be released. We cannot keep this company for many months in these harsh restrictive measures, but we cannot release them as well. It is necessary to prepare for this, to give some vision, which, of course, can, if the epidemiological development has turned negatively, it can be modified. But the government cannot get rid of responsibility in this regard and cannot get rid of giving a vision to citizens as it will take place in the coming weeks and months. Finally, let me stress once again that KDU-ČSL is ready to cooperate with the government. We are the opposition party, in a number of things we disagree with the government, but this time, this situation, is so serious and so extraordinary that we offer all our forces to minimize the consequences of the Coronavirus crisis, both in the health, social, and economic areas. And we only call on the government to accept our hand, to communicate with us, and not to take those questions that we are going to take as criticism, but to treat them as questions that are not just of interest to us as politicians, we are a couple, but that are really interested in the general public. Finally, I too would like to thank the citizens of the Czech Republic for how responsible and with great understanding they are taking the restrictive measures and everything that limits them at the moment in their normal lives. I have to say, we haven't been there. It is a situation that is really the first time in our lives, and I very much hope for the last time. So they owe them a lot of thanks. And, of course, I also thank my fellow paramedics, but also other critical infrastructure workers, that they work well beyond their normal responsibilities. Thanks a lot for that. And let us all keep our fingers crossed so that we can cope with this unprecedented situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u19	Thank you, Mr Kaňkovský. Now, President Miroslav Kalousek, with priority rights, we would have exhausted the priority right to go on the program normally. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have gentlemen's agreement that we will not use factual remarks, so I have used my priority right, but in essence, it will be a factual remark because I wanted to respond, to ask Minister Hamáček to complete his speech. Whether or not the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Health could tell us exactly what they need an emergency for. What they can't do if there's no emergency. Some kind of material filling of several points that they need to continue the emergency situation. Because the Home Secretary said the government doesn't have a plan, that the only one with a plan is the virus, it didn't calm me very much, but I'm trying to understand. However, the material content, necessary, which could not exist without an emergency, I think we should hear it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u21	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. And we are now continuing the debate with Mr Dominik Feri's speech. You have your word and your five minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the government present, Madam Secretary, Minister, the Prime Minister is very fond of using the word double-crossing towards others. And I'm gonna tell you a story today about a double-cross that happened in an emergency situation that the government wants to extend for a month. On 14 March the Government adopted the first crisis measures concerning restrictions on retail sales, not only, and was adopted under the Crisis Act. I presend that I will be here primarily as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, but I will vote for such words that everyone really understands, because everyone really should understand it. On 23 March, the government took note of another package of measures that extended the previous measures taken, but it was no longer issued under the crisis law. It was issued by the Ministry of Health as an emergency measure under the Public Health Act. Maybe you're wondering what's wrong with it. Why did the government decide to change the system? In fact, the crisis law in Section 36 states that the State bears compensation, that if by some measure under the crisis law you have suffered damage and there is some causal link between the damage and the measure, so you can turn to the State, you can claim your claim and say: State, my establishment, my restaurant has been closed, make up for some damage. That's not what the Public Health Act says. What does that mean, and what's the trick? That the government - we don't, we as opposition - the government here says: dear businessmen, dear businessmen, you will not be entitled to any damages. Maybe you'll get some shut-up under very strange conditions, maybe you'll get some twenty-five thousand, maybe something will come out for you somehow, but to ask us for damages, so you can go peel it. This is something that is totally unacceptable to us and which will have fundamental consequences. It seems to me that the government may want every citizen in this Republic to look before the courts at least once as a party to the proceedings. So he'd just have to sue for his rights. But it's not normal to sue. And what do I think are the scenarios that could happen? Basically, there are three. The first is that citizens, entrepreneurs who have closed their premises, will claim compensation under this provision in the crisis law for the first period. Another option is that, by analogy, they will claim the claim for damages under the Public Health Act, there is no provision, but an analogy will apply there, and they will actually try to exercise their rights on the basis of some general legal principles, on the basis of some equality, on the basis of some higher concept of actually or perception of justice. And I think they might be successful. But the worst thing that can happen and what I fear will happen is that the state will be obliged to compensate for the damage under Law No. 82/1998 Coll. This means that he will be obliged to make good the damage on the basis of maladministration. Because the measures issued by the Minister of Health here do not meet the requirements they are to meet. The Public Health Act states that these measures are of a general nature. And the so-called measure of a general nature, according to the administrative order, has some essentials. They must be duly justified, for example. And that was certainly not convincingly justified. Furthermore, these measures interfere with fundamental, constitutional, Charter-absorbed and recognised fundamental human rights and freedoms. And that's where we're talking about some so-called proportionality test when the measures are interfering. This means suitability, necessity and proportionality, strictness of the censor in a narrower sense. And I'm also worried that because of the state's pee, the government's pee, not only will entrepreneurs lose their claim to damages, but they'll still have to be sued. And in order to come out positively and constructively, I call on the government to present a clear compensation mechanism. To say: dear businessmen, we have closed down your premises, we will compensate you for the damage. Because if that doesn't happen, those entrepreneurs will apply tens of thousands of claims.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u23	Mr. Ambassador, the House has approved a five-minute performance limit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u24	I respect that, thank you for the word, and I believe that I will be granted an ear to what I have said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. We continue with Mrs Jarošová's speech, Mrs Helena Válková will prepare herself. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are faced with a decision whether to consecrate the government's intention and raise our hand for further extension of the emergency situation in our country, which, as we agree, is an unpleasant intervention in every citizen's personal freedoms and which also allows the government to take measures that it cannot take under normal conditions. Surely we all agree that the announcement of an emergency in the current situation is justified because saving lives and the health of the population is a priority. The second priority, however, must be the protection of our businessmen and small companies, on which the current measures have devastating effect. Traders are unable to pursue their activities, miss profits, and can enter an unexpected and temporary insolvency. This includes the income of a large number of our residents, when employees are being discharged or as a result of closed schools, parents are forced to stay at home with their children, which leads to a significant decline in income from a lot of households. In doing so, it can be expected that these short-term economic impacts will continue to deepen. We are obliged to help all these people quickly and effectively. I think that loans or deferrals of payments are certainly good, but they don't solve the problem, they just delay it. First of all, I think the government should rethink its priorities in the area of public procurement. Whether it is really necessary to buy expensive American helicopters or to strengthen expensive foreign missions. Then it seems inexcusable to me at this difficult time of spending hundreds of millions to support political nonprofits. The government should also, as we have been proposing in the SPD all along, better assess the eligibility of social benefits paid and move from payment of flat to the more addressable one that is linked to fulfilling certain conditions so that they are given to those needy and not parasites. That's throwing money out the window. I don't think we're in a situation where we can afford something like this. [[12.10 hours]] The SPD has always behaved constructively in the current difficult situation and we intend to continue to do so. We will therefore support the extension of the emergency situation until the end of April, which is until 30 April, because health and protection of citizens are a priority for us. But at the same time, we also ask the government to responsibly rethink unnecessary spending and to use it to help our people, businesses, businessmen. It's them we can all rightly be proud of, how well they handle this stupid situation, with so many limitations. And I wish all of us to get our lives back on track as soon as possible, to which we are accustomed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u27	Thank you for keeping up the show time. Now, Mrs Helena Válková, Mrs Richterová will be ready. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I too am proud of one area that has not yet been mentioned here, and I am glad that I have the opportunity to speak not only as an MEP but also as an agent of the Czech Government for Human Rights, because this area falls within my remit. It's a whole non-profit sector. And I deliberately say the whole thing, because everyone, perhaps for some exceptions, is now trying to consider whether they can direct their activities in a different direction, in a direction that would help solve the current situation. The nonprofit sector is helping, working where the state needs to - and we've all heard where the state needs to be. Unfortunately, it has not yet sounded quite clear, so I will try to replace what has not yet been clearly said here, how much non-profit sector we need now. These are areas that at first glance, when I consider, of course, helping the sick, hospice care, disabled citizens, seniors, where organizations are very self-sacrificing and professionally speaking, both associated under Charity and organizations associated under various associations, Life 90, look at his Facebook, his website. There are hundreds of activities that offer non-state non-profit organizations to seniors who feel lonely, sometimes depressing, just in this situation to an uncertain state of uncertainty and we therefore call emergency. They see it as a condition that is really very difficult for them. In this they are helped by nonprofit organizations. But there are other areas, at first sight not quite so visible. It is an area of care for children, which still grow up in excluded localities, in endangered families, where, regardless of whether there is an emergency or not, it is necessary to help. They're children with disabilities under seven years of age. I have a lot of letters here, where they turn to me - Union centers for family and community bringing together e.g. 450 non-state non-profit organizations operating in this area, community centers under me, Association of Early Care, 42 subjects just providing children under seven years of age and their families care respectively. technical assistance and support. I'm just giving them as examples, because there's a lot of letters that tell us about what they're doing and how they're helping. And I would like to thank them not only very much at this point, but also apologize to them for the fact that we are still hearing only complimentary words - and certainly rightly - about entrepreneurs, businesses, tradesmen, we do not hear about those who were never profit-making, but in particular to complement the state where it is simply not enough or does not want to do so because they think that this is an area that they can leave to the nonprofit sector or where they know that the nonprofit sector is even much better, for example in the field of spiritual care and support. So, with this reminder, I would like to point out to all of us that we owe thanks and support to non-state non-profit organizations, which should also be clear. I have contacted both Minister Havlíček and Minister Maláčová several times, and I have received answers as to whether these organisations, which employ essential collaborators for certain types of activities, such as hospice care, are covered by Antivir or Covid programmes. I got some answers after certain emergencies, so at least that's what we know. The communication is not always quite clear, as if the non-profit sector has been forgotten. I believe that this is not an intention, but a typical underlying phenomenon of this dynamic time when we are all dealing -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u29	Madam, I must warn you that it has been approved by the Chamber of Deputies and a resolution -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u30	Okay, so I'm just finishing up... Thank you... Yes... [[They both talk at the same time.]] I'd just like to conclude if I can finish the last sentence, thank you. [[The President adds that tolerance is itself.]] For the elderly, who I also represent, as you all well know, I would like to make a request here to be careful and, despite what was said yesterday - certainly it was not meant that we should all be watered at once, but very carefully, so at least I understood it from the mouth of Deputy Minister Prymula, so that if we do not extend it until 11 May, at least to extend it until 30 April and to proceed very, very, very slowly and carefully with professional guidance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u31	[[He's already coming in.]] Madam, I've overreacted to one sentence now. I apologise now to Mrs Richterová, because Mr Jan Farský has signed up with priority rights, and Mr Ivan Bartoš also exercises his priority right over his party colleague. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to explain to you why, with a 30-day emergency extension, I have a really big problem, such a big problem that I don't think it's even possible to support it. I'll make a few arguments that I'd be happy to hear from you. In a situation where, as the government really describes, everything changes every moment, every moment, no one has a plan, which I don't like, but I hear these government statements and I have no choice but to acknowledge them, so already some 14 days ago, even half of the first 30 days of emergency haven't passed, we have heard from the government that it wants to stretch out for another 30 days, that it doesn't know what's going to happen, but the emergency situation has obviously been liked, so it should last another 30 days. But the emergency situation is a huge intervention in every citizen's rights, in every citizen's freedoms, and it is a huge intervention in the entire functioning of society. And the longer it lasts, the more damage it causes, of course. And at that point, you have to balance, you have to balance. It's not an easy decision to make, but to claim that it will help everyone in the finals, the entire society, even the most threatened of the prolonged emergency situation, is simply not true. In the first 30 days of emergency, the government managed to violate some of the Constitution's guaranteed rights, such as elections, elections in Teplice, supplementing the Senate. Although the laws clearly state that it is possible to move them only by law, the government simply moved them by decision. Likewise - and this has already been decided by the courts that it is not okay - I think that there is a lot behind the brink of how limited the meeting of representatives, self-governments, it has also exceeded its powers, and it is also a bit inconspicuously retreating, there I suppose it will not even get to the court. [[12.20 hours]] Indeed, the first 30 days - and I know that it is difficult, complex, and the hat down in front of all those who manage it well - are unfortunately chaotic and complete confusion on the part of the government. When members of the government themselves use words like we're in a state of war, in a situation we've never been in, it's exactly those moments when there should be clear leadership, clear visions, clear decision-making, and justified, and stand by it. But what are we witnessing? Although it is banal to allow seniors to buy in reserved times, the government has been able to change three times in a few days. How, in such a simple decision, the government three times guesses when it would be useful for seniors to buy. How are we to trust her in far more complex and responsible decisions? And that's where it's going again, unfortunately. So we heard that businessmen or businessmen were supposed to get 15 grand first, but only some, then 25,000, then the rules were redesigned, and within a week we have several versions. How are people supposed to know about this? Moreover, it is often presented that when the government discusses this, this is already the case, even if the Chamber of Deputies decides in those cases. Really limit, I beg you, government, limit the confusion, limit the chaos, because it does not benefit anybody at all, and it only burdens people who are already under a lot of stress. Unfortunately, the government is strong in the bans, but in the easing, and in the plans for the future, it is far less efficient. I think everyone is ready to give up part of their rights in an emergency state, to comply with the need to secure the most vulnerable due to an emergency state. But again. Nearly 30 days have passed, and there are still problems with the supply of the most vulnerable protective equipment. There's still trouble in retirement homes. There's still trouble with the paramedics. Not everyone has the protective equipment of the quality they're supposed to have. But when I convinced myself that it wasn't such a problem to push the emergency, that's why I justified it, and I think that's how most citizens justified it - I do it to help those who are most affected by this terrible pandemic. But then it is desperate to see that even though we have given up those rights, even those who are the most vulnerable are not getting the maximum support. Still, I have to say, pretty confused about how the government strictly banned, blocked, closed, and then, in pieces, as if we should always be especially grateful and grateful for every release, released. The one when she saw that she had made promises about everyone getting drapes and how the Czech Post would deliver them that she wouldn't meet them, she freed up shopping in haberdasheries. Good move. So the haberdashery is open. Then the parents heard from the children that they would miss the children's shoes in the spring, so the children's shoes were released. There'll be another one, so another piece will be released. But it lacks logic. And yet we interfere with the rights of individual people. At the same time, we intervene and are extremely damaging to the middle class, the one that is the pillar of every free, democratic society. And we're interfering with this enormous uncertainty. If there were clear decisions, a clear plan, many can cope with that. But the chaoticness, it's awful that it only prolongs the uncertainty and deepens the damage. Another moment, which is, and got to me from the mayors, arrived yesterday from the Ministry of Health, that by their decision cancels the restrictions on the functioning of the Czech POINTs. So let's imagine, for example, a jewelry store or a jewelry store where there really aren't a bunch of people who turn around in a day, so people can't go there to buy a wedding ring or an engagement ring or jewelry. But they can go to the Czech POINT without problems now? This was limited to two or three hours a week. How mayors who simply stand on the front line and bear the responsibility, as they were able to provide a place for the state of disinfection for their citizens, as they were able to provide drapes, as the Liberec Region managed to organize the production of hundreds of thousands of subs for its citizens and people on the front line, so the mayors also managed. They just put a sign on the door: call and then the Czech POINT will be open to you. But why does the government decide in this way? The state that the Ministry of Health introduced by its previous decision should have ended on 11 April. So it was said first, by April 11th, it would be like this. And on April 6th, will the mayor's orders come in order to ensure otherwise from the second day? That really doesn't help. It takes energy where the energy is missing. The energy that's missing to help people. In the material we received, the Houses... It's not the press, but the base number 4676, which is supposed to justify extending the emergency by 30 days, is not enough to justify 30 days. There's no data on what we're losing by introducing an emergency. What we are losing, as my colleague Kaňkovský mentioned here, when the functioning of hospitals is slowed down, when there are no preventive examinations, care, and this is also obviously signifying on the health of people and certainly on their lives. This is not defined in any way and evaluated in any way. How many people are going to lose their lives because they won't find their diseases in time, which would otherwise have been found at normal times? We'll never know. We just know that we just stopped the whole company and you guys take care of things. So because there is no future outlook, any plan, and at the same time anything that would justify it taking another 30 days, I certainly can't vote for such an extension, and we can't even vote as a club of mayors and independents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u33	Thank you, Mr Farský. Now President Bartoš still with priority rights, then duly signed up by Mrs Richterová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u34	The Minister of Health has remained from the government. Perhaps there could be more people here, because I would like to take advantage of my priority rights, I did not speak in this part of the debate, and respond to Professor Válkův. I think that should also be said (b) when it was said (a). I am glad that the Prime Minister, who said that she doesn't know what the nonprofit sector is doing, that he probably doesn't do anything, apologizes for it, and I am actually glad, on some level, that the professor here somehow sets things right, or if I say it to the public, she irons it. But we are aware that the non-profit sector has activated itself, that beyond what their standard work needs, it has begun to help in a number of areas, from helping seniors, handicapped with the distribution of purchases, helping the needy, sewing, distribution of drapes, even those people sitting in the newly established call centers that are on those infolines and advising people. They responded quite immediately, nonprofit organizations in that segment, and they work selflessly. They've linked people and they're trying to activate civil society. And the role will become more and more important. That's it. That's why I thank them, why I think it's unfair to have any reservations about the role of the nonprofit sector in other moments, not just in the period of coronavirus. But it didn't sound b, what they're getting at the moment. And I think that this is also the role of Professor Válková, through Mr President, because it is necessary to change the parameters of the subsidies that are now completely changing. The non-profit sector has not yet received the money promised to it under the budget for this year, the money for its operation. Many nonprofit organizations have associated production, which actually pays for their people's work. If they have closed this associated production, they have no money at the moment, no cash flow, as the Prime Minister likes to say. They also have to pay commercial rents. So when we talk about all these groups here, and Professor Válková has highlighted the role of the non-profit sector here, I would like to hear that, too, b) - may not today, when we are talking about the emergency situation - but in order to actually take account of the fact that those non-profit organizations need the money they had promised for this year and they have not yet received it. [[12.30 hours]] And then the fact that they also have practical commercial needs that are limited by the crisis, and it's the rents, it's the possibility of having people in the associated production because they're employed there, for example, they're making money to run the contact centre at that point, and they don't have any money, they didn't have any cotton, and in their budget they were counting on the state support of the non-profit sector, which this year - and we have April - hasn't arrived yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. Now Mrs Richterová and then Mr Marek Benda. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u36	Thank you for the floor. I greet you, and at the same time I would like to speak a little bit more specifically, but in general, it can, I think, be of interest not only to Minister Vojtěch, to what we politicians are already beginning to notice, not only to us, but to the very ordinary people in the field who are scrubbing in their fields. Yes, the forceful measures were needed, but now it doesn't go on at this rate, just a little bit black and white. I'll give four examples, four things from different areas. One thing concerns children from the most endangered families from excluded localities, second births, third establishments and fourth testing. Very briefly to each. We want to show what's going on in this state of emergency is being taken black and white. The first thing. As many of you probably know, I've been doing a lot to break down the enchanted circles so that children from the families from the bad conditions of excluded localities get a different chance in life. And by storm the Ministry of Action No 239 closed the possibility of providing support services to these families. It's called social activation services. I'm saying this because there is an awfully similar field service for individuals, not for families, and it can continue to work. And that's completely stupid. Those kids in those families are locked away at home. I guess everyone who has kids at home now knows how hard it is to stay together in a small space. These aren't families that can handle it well, and now they can't even communicate with their workers, or the nonprofit organizations that do the job, they won't get paid for it. That doesn't make any sense. And if the nonprofit organization wasn't the Child and the family that wrote an open letter about it, she pointed out how much it doesn't make sense that now those families who need help with both home-schooling and communication with the authorities for giving and so on, we wouldn't even really know. So, first of all, I want to say at this point, number one, that I thank the nonprofit sector for working with these families and helping these children. Secondly, I ask, of course, for the Ministry of Labour to abolish this measure immediately. That doesn't help at all. But since there's no mistress... oh, there's a Madam Secretary, that's great. So may I then ask for an answer, Minister Maláčová, to social activation services? I'm really glad you could make it. Well, that was point one that doesn't make sense. Point two. Originally, the Ministry of Health left an exception for births that one person might have been accompanied there. In a week, it was cancelled by the Ministry, and then at least there were exceptions for the most invulnerable women. But it would make sense to leave it to the facility so that every medical facility can decide for itself according to its disposition. I know there are colleagues who are going to disagree a lot, but this is often a matter of other settings in that particular facility, in that particular hospital. Why can't they decide for themselves? It's been a mess again - all or nothing. Third point, establishment. We're witnessing people asking why a florist can be open, why these can, those can't. Again, it can be done backwards. The way to do this is to give a tax name to those who can't be open, and everyone else will. Another example of what would somehow be in less danger of leaving out an important group. And now I'm going to give you the fourth example of testing. Testing as the key to managing a smart quarantine so we can do everything that comes, because there's a lot to come. Testing as an example of an important sector, an academic sector. Scientists, heroes with test tubes, lab workers, but also those who develop new enzymes so that it can just run the testing, even if America stops exporting the important substances -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u37	Madame, the time has ended for you too, given the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, so I must interrupt you. [[Mrs Richter: I'll check in later. Thank you.]] But only the second time, because even those speeches are only two by one according to the Rules of Procedure Act. Mr Marek Benda, then Mr Petr Bendl and Mrs Válková's second speech. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u38	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, much has been said. I'd like to say one thesis. The government is very often using warrior proportions, but I would just like us to realize that we are at war with the virus. He doesn't follow us, it doesn't matter what we think or we don't think about, he's just a natural phenomenon. And at all costs, trying not to admit to society what's going to happen on the second, third, fifth day may make sense in war operations, but it doesn't make any sense in the pandemic. And that, in my opinion, is what today's problem is and where I would like to point out the legal aspects that have been involved from the outset. From the beginning, the government has spoken with this: we can do anything, we can declare an emergency, we do not define what rights and freedoms will be restricted, we may later tell you how limited they will be and what they will not be. It is, let's say, slightly questionable, but I understand the situation in which the government was, and I understand that it was not easy and simple. The Supreme Administrative Court has already made clear mistakes, and I am glad that after 14 days of persuasion, the Ministry of the Interior has finally succeeded in getting the elections to be postponed. With the ban on deputies, if anyone sues, I think it will also be said. Similarly, the government had no jurisdiction to ban travelling, crossing the border outwards, against its population. This is clear and clear, where the government has no possibility of restricting the journey to other states. Of course, they can do this if they do not want our citizens there, but the government cannot prohibit anyone from leaving their republic. About damages and whether the decision is made under crisis law or health laws, Mr. Feri has already spoken in part here. I also see great problems in this because I have doubts whether the Ministry of Health can apply these wholesome measures, which effectively protects healthy, not isolate the sick, but we will probably get to that. I'd just rather for the future, for the next two weeks and the following considerations. We have to, and the whole company, know in advance what's going to happen, what's going to happen, and there's no way I can have the idea that I'm gonna be standing on that press conference and I'm gonna keep saying, "Forbidden, forbidden, forbidden or permitted." We're all supposed to know three, five days in advance, this is going to be, to that extent, and the ministry is justifiably giving it, and you can say why you're giving eight to ten for seniors, and not seven to nine to seven to eleven, it's for such reasons. Here's just a group that's set out to be the smartest in the world who just forbid and don't consult the rest of the company at all. And in this, I see a huge problem. [[12.40 hours]] There is, of course, a lack of justification for those ministerial decisions. There is at least a fundamental discussion about them in advance, and it is simply necessary and necessary for the laws. Let us remember that we are committing all the people, and this battle is really going on with the virus, not with the population. We're not supposed to surprise the population, but we're supposed to be working against the virus growing uncontrolledly here. I see a huge problem in this. It also has to do with the laws that come here in a legislative emergency. As we can see, at least in law, sometimes the government comes three or four days in advance, some of them come today, and they want us to approve them tomorrow. But then they change them seven more times, because they're going to find out exactly that she hasn't thought this through yet, and she hasn't thought this through yet. We really need a plan of what measures are, and in advance, so that the whole society can talk about them and say: yes, this is not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u39	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Petr Bendl now prepares himself with priority rights, Vice-President Pikal. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I only have a few minutes left to me from the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, so just a few comments. Many have been said. I will therefore try to return only to three or four paragraphs of the Government's justification for requesting an extension of the emergency situation, which has been announced on 12 March 2020. Right in point 1, the Government states in its reasoning that the Czech Republic is still in a state of legal other danger, which to a large extent threatens lives, health or property value or internal order and security. I think that those of you who are thinking in that direction that there is no need to prolong in any way unnecessary, and I stress in excess, in an emergency state that you are all clearly clear that they can in the future, and they are already essentially coming and threatened by property values, perhaps even internal order and the security of the population, because they are simply getting into unsolvable situations and the economic situation of a number of people is getting into huge problems. And the longer we stay in those bans, the worse the fall will be, because we have to think about what happens the day after, because I believe that we all want to and we will all go to some normal life, and it must be clear to all of us that the needs for which the state spent a lot of money will still need them. They'll be needed by retired people, they'll need sick people, they'll need small children. We're just gonna need financial resources the day after, and we need to think about what's gonna happen. We cannot let the Czech Republic be hacked, or real property values, money on people's accounts and so on, and so on. I think that today, slowly and gradually, economists are opening up these questions. And we cannot be indifferent to what will happen in a year, how budgets will look, whether we will protect the necessary ones, not only from the state budget, but also from the budgets of cities and municipalities. That is why I am glad that it sounds consensual here, that we will not prolong this by a month at this time, but we will try to vote, some of you have announced it, the deadline at the end of April, and it is necessary for us to have this plan - a plan of relaxation, but also a plan aimed at increasing, I dare say many times the protection of the risk groups involved. I mean, old, sick people, but, of course, those who take care of them in the front line. That's where we need to focus first. Note two. I think that the rules of aid must and should be uniform and the same for all. It is not possible to exclude the region of Prague with reference to the fact that the gross domestic product Pražan so high that it is not possible to help them from some projects or from some allocated funds. I think that's a scandal. It is not possible for us to separate the region of Prague, it also concerns us Wednesdays, many companies have their own company founded in Prague, but they do business in Central Bohemia, and they will not reach some of the programs that the government has announced. I consider this to be scandalous, and I think that the government should do its utmost to ensure that the conditions are uniform and the same for all. And the third point I have is to solve the emergency situation. The government also mentions in its request to extend the emergency situation that it is important for it because, in an emergency situation, individual contracting authorities do not have to award public contracts in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, that this is actually advantageous, because we do not have to ask anyone and we can quickly buy everything we have at our disposal. Okay. It's probably a good measure, but trust, but it does, it has, and I believe it will, and I think that all those orderers from the state side, but, of course, regions or municipalities, if they make an order with reference to the fact that it is an emergency, then they should subsequently publish a complete - I point out and stress the complete - contracts on the basis of which they ordered the materials in question. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] To avoid debate. That is why I propose an accompanying resolution. One sentence: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to publish complete contracts concluded with an appeal to an emergency situation when they were not covered by the Public Procurement Act." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u41	Thank you. Now Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal with priority rights. Mrs Helena Válková will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, dear fellow Members, before I go into my speech, I would like to respond to one thing that has been said here by you. Vice-President Okamura asked about the Gremium that there would be no factual remarks, and therefore hopes that there would be no attacks and such things, but at the beginning of his speech he directly leaned into one of the members of the MP's club. And it doesn't strike me as an appropriate way to have a political debate here at the moment. But now I would like to return an illustrative piece to the previous case of government materials, which proposed strengthening the powers of the government in declaring a state of war or a state of danger in the inactionability of the House. Finally, the referring Minister, Metnar, rightly said that this is a material to launch a broad debate across political representation. So we have responded in discourse because, moreover, our work is to follow the steps of the government and the materials presented, and this could be done in substance because everyone has acknowledged that now is not the time for such a discussion. There's been a theory that it might be a thoughtful release of the balloon, water testing, if the opposition notices and if not, there will be a real attempt to take power. The alternative theory is that we will trust the Prime Minister that he does not remember what is being discussed at the Government Security Council when he chairs it, and the Minister of Defence is politically adamant. I don't know which theory is a worse choice in the current situation, but the reality, as it has already been described, clearly speaks for the second possibility that the government is proceeding in a chaotic, clumsy and disunited way. I'm very sorry, personally. I would like to have a government that will act in a uniform, understandable, convincing way, ideally not just in a time of crisis. [[12.50 hours]] In the opening speech of the Prime Minister, we heard clearly the plan that we are heading towards a complete cessation of the virus, the isolation of all the patients. This really will take a long time, it will be difficult, and it can take really long months, and maybe it means that we are practically waiting for a cure or vaccine. That may be what I would like to answer this question or the assurance as to exactly how this plan is intended to be achieved. He says there's no way to build a plan, because the only person with a plan is the virus, and we don't know his plan. In particular, I would not like to attribute intent or agenda to the pathogen. I think that's a false view of the world. At the same time, I believe that the scientific community already has enough knowledge of how to spread, process, risk groups and other parameters so that the plan of the virus, which is bound to expand to the maximum, can be described. The emergency situation in which we now find ourselves is generally a restriction on personal freedoms and human rights. Here I would like to quote from the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Article two states that state power can only be exercised in cases and within the limits laid down by law, in such a way as to determine the law. Article 4 then states that when applying the provisions on the limits of fundamental rights and freedoms, their substance and meaning must be investigated. Such restrictions shall not be used for purposes other than those for which they have been established. In the current situation, the fundamental right to health and life protection and the right to freedom of movement imposed by the government or, in fact, by the Ministry of Health in its measures is against each other. But there is a restriction on other rights - the right to own or use property, and it can also reach restrictions on the law as regards protection against forced labour. This is the right to enter into business and, moreover, there is a dispute with the right to protect the health of the other otherwise ill, the care for which is currently suspended. Life certainly comes first, but the limitations of other rights must follow the purpose, must be justified and proportionate. And here we come to see why it is important for the government to act uniformly and convincingly. Each uncertainty and every disunity necessarily leads to a lesser degree of confidence in the measure, and thus to their questioning and worse respect, to the possibilities of judicial review, challenge and contradiction. There was mention of restrictions on elections, there was mention of restrictions on travelling, there was mention of restrictions on representatives. A lot of different measures at the moment are superficial and can be imagined in ways that simply no longer follow the purpose of limiting the spread in the population, when perhaps we are all accustomed to wearing drapes, we have enough protective equipment and soap available, and it is therefore possible to move towards some kind of release. Since it must be said that the longer the emergency situation and other measures take, the greater the state's role will necessarily be, the more it will interfere with normal relations, the more people and businesses will need rescue or protection from creditors, the more people will depend on the state, the bigger it will eventually become. This is a danger that we are in danger of, and that will need to be considered at all times. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u43	I thank Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal. Now there is another application by Mrs Helena Válková. I'm measuring time again. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I, on the other hand, will be shorter. Well, at least I made it my job to compensate for the positive discrimination I got about half a minute ago for talking for more than five minutes. I just wanted to respond to President Bartoš's speech and, in part, to Mrs Richterová's speech through you. To President Bartoš. Yes, you're right. Now we need to say B, that is, how to support the activities and activities of the non-profit sector. We have already started something at the level of various government councils, such as with the Vice-President of the Non-State Non-profit Organizations Council with letters and calls, but we will continue. We control the drawdown on this agenda. We are trying to speed up the payment of subsidies and, of course, there are many things that will have to be changed on the march so that the non-profit sector can draw on subsidies that were originally intended for programmes otherwise oriented, because the non-profit sector, just as you said, Mr President, is very flexible and adapts to that demand. As far as Mrs Richterová is concerned, I completely agree, and I just wanted to take advantage of this space, with the fact that the suspension of all the social activation services taught to help endangered families is unimaginable. I'll be more tactful than you, which I think you understand. All I'm gonna say is, it's preposterous. And let's say everyone makes mistakes, especially in an emergency situation. Maybe Secretary Maláčová, who is present, will explain it to us, and I will be happy to accept her explanation. I don't understand yet either. But at that first stage, I understand that there were dimensional measures being taken. And now we're in phase two, where we have to differentiate. I hope I spared that minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u45	Thank you for keeping up the show time. Now with the priority right of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Jana Maláčová, and I would like to point out that at 13 o'clock, under agreement, I will interrupt the hearing and continue at 14.15 o'clock. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to turn against these claims. I understand where you're going, but it needs to be realized that for social activation services, 30 clients, on average, turn to one social worker every day. Thirty clients! That means the intercourse between these people is very high. And we are still standing by the fact that we have suspended their activities, and it is important to say that social activation services, unlike those caregivers, are not life-threatening and are mainly leisure additional activities. And if teaching in schools is stopped, we think that even these activities must be suspended. However, following the discussion of the epidemiological situation in the Czech Republic, we are willing to discuss their gradual easing. But it can't be said, it can't be said that it was thoughtless! Please, at this point, health and safety are really more important, and then let's talk about all the other aspects. So, please, let's just take it easy with these statements that it was preconceived. We are willing to discuss this, but health must come first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u47	I thank the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs for her performance, very brief. Mrs. Richterová has five minutes, and since it's 14.15, I'm gonna give her five more minutes. I'll leave you after 13 o'clock. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for your response, Madam Secretary. I'll remind you again, I was pointing out the illogicality of some steps. And illogicality is that we really have families where, thanks to these services, social activation services, families stay together. These kids aren't taken away. It's absolutely crucial crisis support. It's not leisure activity, it's actually one of the most effective methods of preventing children from being taken from those families into institutions. At the same time as the activity of these particular services was banned, and on the other hand, the activity of field programs was left to the service, although the field programs are very similar from their nature, only targeted at individuals. [[13.00 hours]] So, of course, I don't have the same numbers as the secretary, he's a big unknown to me that number of 30 clients a day. That's where the workers go to two or three families that day, and that's where they work with the kids, with the parents. And I point out that unsolved problems are getting worse very quickly. There's a big cry for help from the field. And then I get to another area where I can see that I do not understand the decision of this government. I don't understand how to know that we're on a successful, good path, so I'm going to give you a specific example for testing. I'm glad the Minister of Health is here. My point is that I am trying to find out from my side the most polite and time-saving communication with Professor Prymula, and now, finally, with the Home Secretary and Chairman of the Hamáček Central Crisis Staff, how a committee is set up to coordinate testing. Without testing, we won't move like a country. I'm in contact with a lot of labs through our medical team. As far as the collections themselves are concerned, there's been a lack of sampling sticks. It is therefore necessary to coordinate the production of this material. Then there's actually a lot, a lot, a lot of commitment to academic workplaces. That's where they actually make, they make the new enzymes. But I just want to say, there are a lot of different groups of experts to coordinate. And we also need maths and statistics to confirm various epidemiological models in the testing group so that they can take a look at what the Institute of Health Information provides. And all of this isn't clear today. I therefore refer to the Minister in this way personally here in the House that there is an occasional group on the subject of testing, but it is not formally established. It's not formally stated that he's leading her - he says it's probably Professor Hajdúch. But he doesn't have the authority to say who the members are. What all the groups, the fields, the players of the testing will be included. There's no clear frequency of these meetings, and it's not clear if they're minutes, and if those entries are then briefly transmitted to the Central Crisis Staff, other working expert groups. I'm really not the kind of guy who wants to rub himself in little things. But testing is the main thing for a smart quarantine to work. We can't beat the virus without testing. And if the good functioning of the testing group is not even tuned, so that the whole process may not end up being accumulated in an overloaded laboratory, and it will not have a functional information system in which another laboratory would offer to help it, it will just collapse anyway. So I'm really trying to say as loud as I can here that experts need enough space. And as a government, I am simply asking you to give it to them, and whether you inform me or our member in the Central Crisis Staff of Mr. Matějka about how it is now going, how the formal groups are appointed, who their professional members are and how the minutes are distributed. That's all. And on these examples, I tried to show why we're not quite sure that everything is always going as well as it could be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u49	That was the performance before Mrs Richterová's lunch break. I'm interrupting negotiations until 14.15 as agreed. And the first performer after the break is Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík. That concludes the morning meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We will continue to discuss the point which is the motion for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the time of emergency. We are continuing the debate that was interrupted before the midday break. Before the interruption, Mr Ferjenčík, who will now appear, was enrolled in the debate. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have one request, which I am directing primarily to President Hamáček, who has repeatedly mentioned here that he would like the emergency to last until at least 11 May, because he expects it to continue to extend. I would like to appeal to the government and, above all, to it that the measures that we approve go on beyond 30 April, because otherwise the same situation as it was at the beginning, when the laws were very quickly passed, will be repeated again. It will already be very difficult to prolong the validity of these measures if the emergency situation is prolonged. I ask that the government coalition remember this when the proposals prepare not to end on 30 April, but ended really by ending the emergency situation, or there was some easy way to easily prolong their effectiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u52	Thank you. Mr Martin Kupka, who is not present at the moment, moves his application, and Mr Petr Třešňák, who is also not present, is next on the list. He's present. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u53	Mr President, I also wanted to address the honourable Minister, but I do not see the Minister here now, so I hope that some of the questions I will ask would then be answered. You will certainly all confirm to me that the crucial thing in the case of the crisis that we are experiencing now is to inform not only the citizens of the Czech Republic but also all the responsible persons involved, including the legislature. On 18 March, I sent a series of questions to the Minister, and I deliberately chose the form of e-mail instead of interpelation, and I understand that it was a fairly comprehensive set of more than thirty questions, but over the last three weeks, I think that many of them have not been clarified, but I consider the information to be absolutely crucial, whether it was the availability and purchase of protective equipment, bed care capacity, lung fans and ECMO equipment, as well as those issues that we do not really have an answer to, for example, whether the investments made in the past were necessary to protect the population from possible epidemics, as mentioned by the National Strategy for Health and Disease Prevention, and if not, why that was so. At the last meeting, I also mentioned the possible negotiations of the European Union institutions in relation to the temporary restriction of the patent of medicines, and although the proposed resolution did not go through with me, there are still a few questions on the general level concerning coordination of action within the European Union, I suppose there is no point in reading them in more detail here, and I will leave this to the point that health as such is in the competence of individual national states, but we are in a very different situation, and the cooperation in many areas is much more recent. And they're not just questions. As has been reported several times from our side, we want to be extremely constructive in this situation, so some of the proposed solutions are not only side-by-side shooting, but we are actually able to participate in the actual implementation of such proposals. For example, the implementation of the so-called. smart quarantines not only into the state of re-tracking contacts infected, as represented by the government, but also a proactive instrument that would allow the economy to restart faster, and first of all, its first use in Pendlers is offered, which we proposed to the President of the Central Crisis Staff, Minister Hamáček. And even though there have already been minor modifications, the cancellation of the turnus mode, as well as the electronisation instead of paper documents, we consider it actually to facilitate the work of security files on transitions. I apologize for this donkey bridge from the original topic, but I used it as an illustration of things that can actually be gradually improved by common forces, and on the following point I will return to this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u54	Thank you. Mr Skopeček, who is not present at the moment, is next to move his application, and Mr Martin Kupka will appear at the moment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u55	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to briefly summarise why I am convinced that the decision to extend the emergency situation should take place as soon as possible. I believe that every crisis situation requires a response to how the situation develops. From the essence of the matter, therefore, it is appropriate in the event of critical situations to really evaluate the current situation, in our case the epidemiological situation, and on this basis and on the basis of the planned measures to release the time of the next days of emergency validity. Moreover, I am convinced that the entire public perceives an emergency - and we do more so - as something really extraordinary, as an instrument that uses state and state power to limit some people's freedoms in order to deal with a critical state. I am therefore convinced that we are to deal with this every day very carefully and really shorten the extension period to the minimum possible time, with the fact that we are able - after all, the next meeting is planned for the last week of April - we are able to decide if there are facts on the table that such an emergency situation needs to be extended. I would like to make it clear that our efforts to shorten the time of decision-making and shorten the prolongation of the emergency situation are in no way an obstacle that we would like to put the government in the way of dealing with a crisis situation. On the contrary, it is an effort to free the government from being able to precisely formulate and prepare measures tailored to the current development of the situation. At the same time, I would like to pass on the experience of a number of mayors, mayors, local politicians, who are also deployed in the front line and are in daily contact with a number of people. Of course, the length of the emergency situation also has a significant psychological impact, especially for older people who are at home dependent on the media and assess the situation, so it is often very difficult to fight and a long time of emergency cannot really cause any peace in them. We are therefore convinced that it is also appropriate to send a clear signal to them that the extension of the emergency situation will take place in the shortest possible time and, if necessary, there will be an extension. In the same way, perhaps everyone without exception is interested in returning to normal life as soon as the conditions allow. And, of course, this emphasis should also be placed on the government, on all measures, so that society can return to normal life as quickly as possible, and those secondary impacts of the emergency situation and all those measures, if possible, did not outweigh their negative effects on what those measures had to save in terms of the Coronavirus epidemic. I therefore very much ask that we consider this in all these aspects, as well as in the psychological aspect, because it is about spreading among people, if possible, the belief that the return to normal life will really be as soon as possible and that we are watching when the possibilities for the Czech Republic will be released. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u56	Thank you. Mr Pavel Žáček is next in the debate, Mr Skopeček will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u57	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a big test for citizens today, for the public authorities, for the public administration, but also for our rule of law. I suppose that even the announcement of an emergency will be reviewed someday, even though it will certainly be examined by a different body than we are here as politicians. However, in the Prime Minister's report, I lacked an important passage in this context, an overview of laws or other legal standards that have been suspended, which to some extent assumes the constitutional law to which this emergency situation has been declared. Therefore, in this context, I draw attention to one serious matter which also results from the fact that I am a member of the Security Committee and a member of the "big ear" that it has also been suspended from certain data with the state authorities - and the state authorities listed in the law - only after due justification and after approval by a court or prosecutor. These are specifically data from mobile operators or from the banking sector. In fact, they are now being approached by an authority of the state, which is not entitled by any law, only on the basis of an extraordinary regulation of the Ministry of Health. To continue my activities, which are more or less controlled in these bodies, I contacted the Ministry of Health, the Office for Personal Data Protection, mobile operators, even some of the private entities involved, and today I got some answers, so I'm not able to give you any last word. However, I will do so and I believe that later also the competent authorities of our House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u58	Thank you. Mr Jan Skopeček will also speak in the debate, Mr Klaus will be prepared. [[This is Mrs Pekar Adam.]] I'm sorry, that's an oversight, because she signed up with the priority right of President Markéta Pekarová Adamová. I even signed her up, so I'm giving her my word now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u59	Thank you for the floor. I'm looking at this empty bench here, and I'm not surprised. [[Government benches]] It looks like we're discussing some marginal point here, and we're talking about extending the emergency situation, and there's neither the Prime Minister, nor the Home Secretary, nor the Minister of Health. There's questions coming up, there's a whole bunch of arguments that we want to answer, too, but no one's supposed to, and it's like we're dealing with some sort of marginacy here. I really think that this situation, which is being addressed here, deserves the maximum participation of the ministers of the government. If they really mean it, and if they want us to support their request for such a crucial thing, they're just supposed to sit here all the time, answer questions and have a dialogue with us, not just let us make arguments here and not stand up to them. So I would like to propose that we interrupt the meeting until at least the ministers concerned and the Prime Minister, which I have named. The Minister of the Interior is coming, but the Minister of Health is still missing. We're dealing with pandemics here, we're dealing with a medical situation here, but the Minister of Health isn't here. There's no Prime Minister here asking for an extension of the emergency on behalf of the entire government. So let's vote to abort, please. As long as they're not here, we don't have to go on. Obviously, it doesn't matter that extremely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u60	Thank you. There was a procedural proposal. I will, of course, vote on him. However, according to the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs, we will wait a while for Members to come to the hall. There is a proposal, I will repeat it, to interrupt the negotiations until the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Health are present. [[Call off the microphone.]] That's not the final vote. I think we are ready for this vote. So I'm voting on... Excuse me? Please, Madame, let me give you the floor to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u61	We ask for a vote by name, because there are proposals that have been made on three persons. So to vote on each person separately. [[A loud response in the room.]] To the vote is the Minister, Vice Prime Minister Hamáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u62	I would ask the appellant, therefore, to clarify what is true in this House. As far as I know, there's been some gentlemen's agreement that Members do not have to spend time in the Chamber in order not to catch up with each other. All they have to do is watch the House's meetings on screens or from offices. I suppose, if this is true of Members, so is the ministers. I am asking whether this agreement applies, that we can monitor meetings in the hall outside the hall provided there is at least one minister or whether it is true that Mrs Adamová demands that the entire government be here as if it were in the cemetery. I had a feeling we had a gentleman's agreement up until now. If that's not true, I'm willing to accept it, but then we'll deal with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u63	So I, if there are no objections, because otherwise I should have the vote taken immediately, will give the President another word to clarify her proposal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u64	The proposal was for key government figures, which means you, Minister of the Interior and the President of the Central Crisis Staff, the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister. Of course there are gentlemen's agreements. But there are arguments, clear questions, and they just don't have answers. And that's the key. So if we are to decide on something as fundamental as extending the emergency situation, that is, that the fundamental rights of citizens are being restricted and that the request is to be able to limit them further, then perhaps we are conducting some dialogue and we want to hear answers to those questions that have been raised here by many speakers. And I just want the keys, not the entire government, to be present at this meeting. That's what I said, that was my suggestion. And I'm specifying it. We may not have gotten along quite well with Mrs Černochová, a colleague of mine. I think it is enough to vote with one vote as all these demands. Now there's basically only two of the required ones missing. And if they're here, then, of course, we can continue. But they should be able to actually have a dialogue with us, not just let us talk here. Looks like you liked the emergency, and you're actually working very well in it. But we want us to be able to really argue here so that there are answers. [[unintelligible]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u65	I have been very tolerant so far, but now we have to get back to what the Rules of Procedure are telling us. There was a procedural proposal. The procedural proposal is very clear and we need to vote on it. I heard the application for check-out, and in the meantime, I've already checked you out. Please log in with your voting cards again. I merely recall that we are discussing a proposal to give consent to the extension of the emergency period under a special regime, which means that factual remarks are not admissible. Therefore, even those who apply with a factual remark cannot be asked to speak. We will vote on the proposal to interrupt this meeting until the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Health are present. [[A loud response in the room.]] Initiating vote. [[From the O.R.: doesn't work.]] It's working now. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number four. 94 Members registered, for 38, against 47. The motion was not accepted. Let's keep going. I'm asking Mr. Vice Prime Minister if his application for priority rights is valid. With priority rights, yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u66	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just asking for notes that we like the emergency. My colleague, through Mr President, does not like it. I'd really like not to have to worry about my relatives so I don't have to worry about my family so it's over here. But it hasn't gone away yet. And if you think we're enjoying this, the way we sleep three or four hours a day, and we're trying to deal with the crisis that fell on us, and no one had to deal with it before us, I'm really not enjoying it. So I beg these remarks!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u67	Mr Jan Skopeček, Mr Václav Klaus, will be ready for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u68	Thank you very much. I'm gonna try to get it back on track. We're discussing an emergency today. I say in advance that I am also unable to support the extension proposed by the government because I have not heard from it a clear plan of how it will behave according to how this disease will evolve. After all, we're seeing better numbers today. I think it can be said that we are avoiding those countries that have been through this problem of great damage and loss of life. However, I see from the government rather chaotic removals, or the liberalisation of those restrictions that came at the beginning, which I and other opposition colleagues, along with me, supported. I'd like to talk about the restrictions next to the emergency situation. I would very much like to ask the government to make a clear plan for how the restrictions will be removed. I'm most concerned with small and medium-sized entrepreneurs right now. In a moment, we will be here today and tomorrow to discuss various economic measures to help entrepreneurs, including the self-employed. But those measures can never replace what we need to do quickly, so that our businessmen and entrepreneurs can return to their businesses and start their business again. Because only how quickly we can manage it and how quickly entrepreneurs will get back into their premises, into their work and will be able to do business, earn and pay their employees will decide how much damage the Czech Republic will have in relation to Coronavirus. And it seems almost incredible to me that even after those weeks, a number of businessmen, a number of businessmen, have a clear view of when their field, their subject of business, will be able to run again, will be able to work. I would therefore like to call on the government to present to our entrepreneurs a clear plan, where what profession will be able to start business again according to how disease will develop in the Czech Republic. Because we can see hundreds and thousands of entrepreneurs and tradesmen, who are quitting their trades and applying to labour offices, according to various data. And every day these entrepreneurs and businessmen grow. And in my opinion, if we give some of them any hope that within days, weeks, the situation will change, and it will be their profession to start working again, we can prevent the end of hundreds and thousands of tradesmen who will be absent from the Czech Republic without a dispute. Because I believe that the backbone of the Czech economy must be small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and that it is not only large companies and large corporations, often owned by foreign capital, that are not all tightened up. [[14.40 hours]] So I ask the government to consider, on the other hand, the costs and revenues of the various restrictions every day and to really realise that, in addition to the revenues, the costs are not only economic in nature. There is no doubt that I would like to remind our seniors, who, of course, suffer as a result of being abandoned and having a difficult opportunity to meet their loved ones. So I'm calling for a gradual removal of restrictions. I think it's time for that. And I think, as the proficient medical professors say, that the treatment must not harm the patient more than how serious his illness is itself. So please the government, instead of making this chaotic announcement that the hardware store is gonna open up here, that another subject of business will open up, give to our entrepreneurs who can't do business today and are in a really difficult situation to give them a clear plan. I think it's time to go back to normal life, that it's time to gradually release it. And even under the conditions that customers in certain groups will be able to walk in those premises, that there will be disinfection, that the operation will simply be limited. But it's just illogical when you go after a big supermarket and you see an open flower, you see an open wine shop, you see an open currency exchange - and there's a hairdresser closed next to it. I don't understand this logic at all, and I don't think it's just the hairdresser, but a whole bunch of other professions are just waiting for her to make at least part of the money again, and we've reduced the risk of getting into the employment office and getting unemployed out of them. So please take the government's mind into the hand and gradually, gradually even in an emergency, release those restrictions, and thus reduce the damage that the Czech economy will certainly have and which will be long-term. Each rescued businessman returns to this country twice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u69	Thank you. And before I give the floor to Mr Václav Klaus, one warning so that everyone knows what the procedure is, because according to this Section 109m we do not act here normally or we do not act at all. I note that in this case we have only one debate, there is no detailed debate. This means that all the proposals to be put to the vote must be heard in this debate, which is now open. Mr. Václav Klaus has the floor. Mr. Benda will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u70	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm gonna stick to the merit of things, and that's an extension of the emergency and the economics, and I'm gonna keep the others for the other meetings that will follow. We, as non-attached Members and also our Tricolore movement, have been behind the government since the beginning, because the measures of our government came relatively soon, virtually. faster than in many other countries. That's obvious. And I'm gonna say it again when the investigation committee starts here in two months, when it's all over, that I'm gonna insist on this position. However, we are now three weeks from the introduction of a hard quarantine that has reached the Czech Republic. What we have left is to track the data, without emotion, and act on it. When we look at the data, we see two things. First, the disease, the increase goes down percent, day after day, now there's another decline. But the second thing we see is that even though the disease's supposedly incubation period is fourteen days, the whole week was seven percent per day. So it means that the disease is spreading in some way in the same way, regardless of the measures that have taken place, it has knocked them down roughly in half. And it is quite clear that these measures cannot be kept indefinitely, even because there is no such thing as a fanatical emergency in the Czech Republic. We don't have soldiers and cops on the streets, people act responsible, but more or less the state doesn't require much of them. Those who behave less responsible, they're somehow not being penalized. So it's like an emergency state of emergency in quotes anyway. Let's act rationally, let's not rush to open schools, travel, entertainment, and other things, but to protect the economy. And what you can clearly see is that the situation changes every day. The numbers come in, they go down, or they go up. So I think that's the biggest argument for us not to agree to extend the ad hoc emergency until mid-May or until God knows when, because the situation is really changing day by day. The economic coronavirus is a huge danger, and there's no reason for the House not to meet or fight again here in two weeks, ten days and similar dates, but we didn't open it until mid-May or God knows when. Thus, we will support all the proposals that will be aimed at a shorter period of emergency, because we think that the emergency situation is in the same way as the name, and that the government can buy something without tenders, is more or less not in the Republic. And the disease is spreading slowly anyway, but we just have to look for the balance between saving the Czech economy and the progression of the disease. So this is our position and we will support not the monthly emergency period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u71	Thank you. Mr Marek Benda is next, Mr Marek Výborný will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u72	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we have no formal motion for a resolution here, if my senses do not deceive me, because House document 4676 is a request from a government that does not even really say it, only the Prime Minister has said that he is proposing 30 days, it is only there that the opinion of the Central Crisis Staff is there - I assume the Prime Minister is coming up with this thesis. I would like us to vote on the other proposals, so I will propose a 14-day extension for the Civic Democratic Party Club. This means, "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to extend the emergency for a period of 14 days." I think the way this works is that there will be a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies anyway, so we can get together and those questions that have not been answered today, and that clearly has not been answered, at least the scenario of further easing, I think that the whole country, not only this Chamber of Deputies, but the whole country, deserved as soon as possible. Therefore, I recommend that we extend the emergency situation by just two weeks and please formally consider it my proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u73	Thank you. Mr Marek the Výborný, Mr Feri will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u74	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I will be very brief and I will not comment here on what my colleagues have been talking about for the past few hours. But there's one aspect I'd like to poke out here and say a thank you too. Perhaps we all receive various emails and messages in recent days asking us, in quotation marks, to intercede with the Central Crisis Staff and with the government, to somehow release measures that affect this week, because this week is crucial to Christians throughout the year. We're having Easter, Easter week. And I understand that it is very painful for a number of Christians that they cannot enjoy these holidays in the community, as is customary, tradition, and as is deeply their own Christians. However, according to the information I have, the Czech Bishops' Conference was also in contact with Deputy Minister Prymula, these things were dealt with. And I understand the reasons why it's not possible to open churches at the moment, prayer rooms for Easter ceremonies. Perhaps we would find it difficult to deal with a situation where we would determine who else can and who cannot, and that would also be unfair. So I understand the reasons. But I would like to make it clear to all priests, clergymen, pastors, because at this time of crisis, they, too, are engaged in a completely unconventional way in those communities that manage which they take care of, because the spiritual help at this time of crisis is very important. And when we look at how many worships of various Christian churches and other religious societies need to be broadcast online in ways that these clergymen offer different intervention services, telephone conversations, such as Pilsen Bishop Tomáš Holub, so I think that they too, like health professionals and all those who are deployed in the front line, deserve great thanks. And what I would particularly like to poke out is a spiritual service in hospitals, prisons and other facilities, because it is also very important, and it certainly deserves to be said here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u75	Thank you. And with priority rights, the President of the House of Radek Vondráček has now signed up, followed by Mr Feri, as I have already announced. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u76	Thank you for the floor. I am merely a procedural proposal on which there is no need to vote. At this point, three different proposals were made - 30 days from the government, until 30. 8. in the speech by Vice-President Filip, by the end of April and now by 14 days. [[Room noise]] So three different designs. I suggest that, after the last speaker has spoken, we do the so-called. a supporting indicative vote, where only the votes are in favour, and then we would vote in order from the most successful to the less successful. Mr President, this is more of a proposal for you and for others to see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I accept the proposal, I intend to proceed this way, we will vote on the three proposals, and the one that will have the most votes, so then we will vote on it first. Mr Dominik Feri in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u78	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, in my first speech to the government - and I assumed a little bit that Minister doktorka Schillerová would notice - I asked how the damage would be done. Madam Secretary, be polite, say it. Tell me if the state will replace the damage. If you don't, if you and the businessmen you showed up at the middleman, if you're gonna sue them. If the State bears the costs and if you're willing, assuming you lose, to compensate for any mismanagement. Say it. Let's say it. [[The secretary is responding off the microphone.]] And I'd like to ask -- wait, let me finish, thank you. I would like to ask the Minister how it is possible that the measures of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are issued before the end of the emergency situation, when nothing is yet approved, why it is not at some date, why it is simply not given by a week, by 14 days. What if we don't approve anything here today? Is retail gonna open up again? Is this all going to get started? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u79	Thank you. Now with priority rights, but at the same time joining the debate, President Bartoš, followed by President Kalousek. [[Mr Kalousek is negotiating with Mr Bartoš.]] So Chairman Kalousek comes first. [[Mr. Bartoš is going to the microphone.]] Well, in the end, it will be as I originally challenged you. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u80	I don't want to mess up or usurp any last word. I would just like to remind you that I have announced before the beginning of this point that I will be reading the resolution. It was said here that the plan had a virus or what I heard. Anyway, the individual terms, apart from some outlines of the curve and its flattening, which was described here by Minister Hamáček, were not mentioned. That's why I'd read the resolution here. The resolution originally had four points, we added after agreement with KDU-ČSL's chairman Bartošek after agreement... [[From the right side of the diaper off the microphone.]] I can't hear right. We have therefore added two additional points to the motion for an accompanying resolution, which I think are important. The proposal is: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to inform the public by 20 April 2020 of a specific government plan for managing the pandemic of coronavirus and its consequences in the Czech Republic, which will take account of various scenarios, at least include the following understandable information that citizens, companies and organisations can maintain: (a) a transparent plan for the current and long-term supply and distribution of protective equipment to health, social and other facilities, including specific information on the involvement of Czech companies; (b) the development of the number of infected and other determining criteria according to which the government will consider the gradual release of restrictive epidemiological measures; (c) clear and predictable overall measures by which the government wants to mitigate the economic effects of this crisis, including the planned compensatory mechanisms; (d) planned measures to reduce the risk or deal with any new wave of pandemics in the Czech Republic, including assistance for persons affected by these measures; (e) the presentation of an updated legislative change plan during this period; and (g) specifying the arrangements at border crossing points with neighbouring States with a proposal for derogations enabling necessary economic, scientific and research cooperation and cooperation in the field of education. This is the whole resolution. If we then vote on it, we could vote on individual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u81	Yes, thank you, I have a record. It is already a motion for one accompanying resolution, this is the other. And now President Miroslav Kalousek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate, a number of questions were raised from the opposition benches to the government, whether they were related to some at least a framework plan and, in particular, to the measures that the government urgently needs to be in an emergency situation. I mean, what the emergency is about, what the government needs the emergency for, specifically, this situation. I'm just going to sum up the answers we heard. The Prime Minister said he didn't want to keep explaining why he was changing his steps in time, and the First Vice Prime Minister, the Home Secretary, said that the government had no plan, that the only one with a plan was a virus. Not one member of the government has answered the question of what you need this emergency for. It's just none of your business, don't ask, we'll make a decision. In this situation, the TOP 09 MEP is convinced that we do not have the right to vote on the extension of the emergency situation even by just one day, we are not used to signing blank checks. We cannot support either of the three proposals on the table. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u83	Thank you and with priority rights, President Marian Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I will really be very brief, the main thing for us said colleague Vítek Kaňkovský. But after all, I'm taking advantage of the fact that a member of the government is sitting here now, Mr. Health Minister. I get a lot of questions from entrepreneurs, but also from citizens for one important thing. I understand the Minister of the Interior of Hamáček that this government cannot exactly know exactly the steps in this situation to the point of gradual and), (b), (c), (d), I understand that, but please nicely, we see one inspiration in the world, and this is Taiwan, when the steps in Taiwan in terms of how it manages the epidemic, and how it interferes with the economy when it cuts the economy very little, and yet the country has absolutely minimal mortality, so if we are inspired here by these measures, because we have heard a lot of information at the end of last week about how the smart quarantine will run from Monday this week, how it will run. So I would like not only for myself, but mainly for those people, for entrepreneurs, to ask also representatives of NGOs, the Confederation of Industry and Transport, the Chamber of Commerce and others, if at this moment the Czech Government, the Ministry of Health, is really in a situation where they are closely following those steps in Taiwan and are planning to do so here, for example. and inspire. Thank you for myself, but also for the others who are asking about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u85	Thank you. President Jakub Michálek next in the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u86	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, I would like to remind myself of what the Prime Minister began in his speech, that no government in the world was able to secure drapes. I don't want this to sound critical, I think we've taken a lot of good steps in these last few days, we've neglected a little prevention, maybe a little bit too much when I look at the Minister of Health, but let's look at those who are really doing it well. And there has already been an example of Taiwan. I think that's an example that's relevant. When we look at the end of January when the major steps were taken, on 22 January, the ECDC issued its Rapid Risk Assessment, saying that it believes that the potential impact of the outbreak of the Coronavirus is high, that further global spread is likely and that the likelihood of finding cases imported into the EU is medium. 27. 4., i.e. the day before the Minister of Health performed here, there were 2,877 infected in China. [[1.]] I guess it doesn't look like it's spreading from animals to humans because they have a mess in animal markets. [[15.00 hours]] Now, about that question. No government in the world has been able to secure the drapes. So I looked at wan. After the first confirmed spread case at the end of January, the manufacturing centers opened a drape in Taiwan and deployed a part of the army on it. Now they make 13 million pieces of drapes a day. Yes, if we wanted to set up such production centres, we would need an emergency situation in the Czech Republic. But we didn't, and we didn't take advantage of the emergency. Instead, we brought drapes from China and welcomed them to the airport. It was a 5 million drapes, a one-time delivery, while Taiwan produces 13 million pieces a day. So wan had to do it itself, because the World Health Organization refused to accept it among its members, the observers, continues to block its membership with the appeal that China does not like it. The China, which therefore fakes statistics, where the coronavirus originated, where they couldn't contain it in the beginning, and now they're selling their products on the entire globe. So what did we do at the end of January, while in Taiwan, they started creating a drape factory and started making 13 million a day? Mr. Bohuslav Svoboda has my appreciation. He asked about this on 28 January in the House and Minister Vojtěch, at the time when there were 2,877 cases in China, and the European Agency warned a week earlier that global proliferation was likely, so he says, I checked with the suppliers of drapes that there would be enough of them to prepare another delivery of 25,000 pieces of drapes, and one Czech producer has a million in stock, so the drapes will be. So if I look away from the 25,000 drapes, which is an extremely low number compared to the fact that the Czech Republic has 10 million citizens, of which about 9 million citizens are older than two years, so they have an obligation to wear a drape, it is completely inadequate. I think we've gone the right way. I think it is not appropriate for us to compare ourselves with Italy, Spain and some other states that have chosen a false scenario and have begun to react late. However, this comparison, if we want to make some comparisons, rather compare ourselves with other Central European countries. Map according to Poland 4,200 infected, Slovakia 534, Hungary even less. So this Eastern Europe has just chosen the right strategy in my opinion. At the beginning, I supported this, including the steps of the government that were involved. But let's get back to what we're talking about here, that's the emergency. A number of colleagues here asked questions, including our colleague Petr Třešňák, who asked the Minister of Health a few questions, specifically I think it was 34 or 37 questions, about three weeks ago and did not receive an answer to them, nor did he have this written request, nor here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. [[shows]] But I suppose the Minister, even though he wasn't here at the moment, definitely noticed, so maybe he'll comment on it, because it's important for us to have up-to-date information when we decide on the emergency situation. Those questions ran out of 18. 3. Minister Vojtěch, three weeks there is no reaction. And there are some pretty serious things that we're asking about. Because it turns out that some of them, if that's what it looks like, some of the authorities at the Department of Health didn't really work the way they were supposed to. Only if I read a few questions. Since 2015, the government has had a national strategy to protect and promote health and disease prevention, in which, for example, investments to protect the population from possible epidemics have been recommended. Did the investments in this plan take place? If not, then why? Which investments from this plan have been completed? The Central epidemiological Commission - how many times did it meet in 2020? I've only managed to track down one entry from the Central Eagle Commission. What was her recommendation to the government, what was she supposed to do according to the pandemic plan? That committee is supposed to make recommendations to the government, and it is headed by the Minister of Health. Is the government following the stages of the pandemic plan? Will the type plan for this type of pandemic be published? Which is conducted by the government at EU level with individual Member States on the global suppression of the spread of COVID-19, etc.? There are a lot of questions about other topics such as protective equipment, medicines, medical equipment and equipment. Some of them have been answered in public appearances, but some have not yet been answered. I might add a few more questions that have been raised since then. It turns out that The Ministry of Health has set an extremely low estimate of the number of respirators for storage at the Department of State Material Reserves, namely 20,000 pieces. So I wanted to ask you why the Ministry of Health, under the leadership of Minister Vojtěch, sent this one such a low demand - 20 thousand pieces, so it could cover a maximum of one day of emergency operation of the state. Well, then, of course, I'd like to ask how the government buys. We've already gotten some information. I'd like to thank you for that, because I know the Home Office leaked some of that information. However, I think that the government should publish a complete list of what, when, where and in what quality it buys, so that it is transparent to indicate what goes from the Czech Republic, what are Chinese companies, what are the middlemen, what have commissions, etc. I think the important thing, of course, is to be sure that the aids are of adequate quality and that the price is in no way dramatically higher than the current market price at that time. Of course, it must be taken into account that both the lack of resources on the market and the current market price were higher. Of course. Now I would like to respond to the speech of Minister Hamáček. Thank you for his approach, because he has called us to ask questions, and I think that our important role is as a opposition. I welcomed the fact that Minister Hamáček introduced us to the idea that the government had some idea when to let go of the measures and what measures against coronavirus, and he quoted here that the government would ease the measures when the increase was not exponential. So when we look at the current graph, it turns out that here in the introductory part of the increase can actually be considered exponential in the approach, but after the effect of the established quarantine, the number of cases is essentially below the limit of what was measured sometimes 27. [[shows]] 3. That means right now, even if the data is, let's say, the effect in the detection is some 11 days back, so the data shows that we definitely don't have an exponential increase. We have an increase that is essentially constant. So that's to clarify when the government will take to mitigate these measures. And I want to devote the last part of my speech to the issue of emergency, following the factual nature. I have had an analysis to describe what measures the government can take and what measures it can take only if an emergency is given, because the overwhelming part of these measures can be done according to the analysis without emergency conditions. So that's why I was intrigued that the request was directed or justified in what the government had decided, in the written material, that it was necessary to enter into public contracts more quickly. [[15.10 hours]] The Government stated that, in order to ensure protection, it is the basic security interest of the Czech Republic in the current situation to carry out purchases of protective and medical needs without delay. Thus, individual contracting entities do not have to award related urgent public contracts in the procurement procedure during the duration of the emergency state, as the security interest of the State in protecting lives is preferred to the principles of public procurement. Of course, this cannot be agreed with, but it must be added that this situation is not linked to an emergency situation, because the Public Procurement Act in Section 29 points. (a) and § 198 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) this does not involve an emergency situation, but simply any exceptional circumstances which make it impossible to complete the planned task for which a public contract is needed. And in this way it is possible to continue in principle. Temporary re-establishing internal border control with Germany and Austria - can also be carried out under Section 11 of Act No. 191/2016 Coll., on the Protection of National Borders. Prohibition of entry for all foreigners from risk areas - can be followed by the Public Health Act. The same applies to the prohibition of mass events of over 30 persons, or the personal presence of pupils and students in schools. So that's how I went through all these measures, and the overwhelming part of them isn't tied to an emergency. If anyone's interested in more accurate information, I'd be happy to get back to it. So what is linked to the emergency situation is the work obligation that the government can impose and the seizure of property in a crisis state, but the work obligation was used only marginally, in relation to the students of some faculties of medical orientation, and the seizure of property, so I am not aware that it would be used at all. Maybe this is what wan used to do, that somehow he got some manufacturers to start making what's needed, so in that case, drapes. Then it would not be possible to issue emergency measures to the authorities, however, as far as I know, a lot of these things have been replaced with measures by the Ministry of Health, so there is no need for emergency measures in this regard to allow the authorities to issue any further measures. It's not very used. And then it has some criminal consequences, such as that it is a aggravating circumstance, and it has tax consequences that the government can, in an emergency, allow payers who carry out taxable transactions for armed forces, armed security forces, firefighting rescue forces and so on to supply... wait... emergency services and operators of economic mobilization - defined types of goods and provided specified services to these entities without tax while maintaining the right to deduct tax in full. But this, as far as I know, hasn't been used at all. So when I recapitulate all these measures, it follows that the emergency situation is not necessary in itself, but I understand that the government may simply want to present it in a way that makes it easier to collect and possibly have the opportunity to reach out to those, say, more invasive interventions, such as seizure of property or work obligation in case it is needed. So I wanted to ask if I understand correctly, or if the government has any other major measures in place that make you want the emergency situation. Now I would like to take a short look at the legislation, because some of the measures that have been taken contain serious defects. I drew my attention to five such defects and wanted to thank you for the fact that the government has negotiated a remedy in two cases, and that it has put forward a proposal to postpone the elections to Teplice and also to present the materials to the Chamber of Deputies so that we have at least 24 hours to get to know them. However, there are three other flaws, and this is insufficient to justify the measures of the Ministry of Health, which may complicate the judicial review of these extraordinary measures, the prohibition of the assembly and then the unclear regime of compensation for damage already mentioned by the previous speakers and which should be clarified by Minister Schillerová. To sum up, for myself, I would like to hear the answers to the following questions from the members of the government. If, first of all, the Czech Republic is inspired by countries that manage the epidemic perfectly, such as Taiwan, and if it possibly supports this state to be a member of the World Health Organization, because it would certainly contribute to improving its activities. Secondly, if Mr Petr Třešňák gets an answer to a three-week-old question and if I get an answer to my other two questions put in this debate. Thirdly, if information about purchases made by the government across departments under emergency conditions is made publicly available. Fourth, in order to clarify the conditions under which the government will terminate the measure and whether it is really linked to exponential growth, which we are not now observing. That's for ministr Hamáček. Fifthly, what are the specific things that require emergency conditions and are not enough to take further measures under special laws, e.g. The Public Health Act, because I've shown the research here that the measures are actually completely marginal. Sixth, last question, whether the government will remedy the legal defects that have been raised in connection with the justification of the measures of the Ministry of Health, the ban on the holding of representatives and the compensation regime. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u87	Thank you and we continue the debate. I have three speakers registered here. First Minister Adam Vojtěch, then the Presidents of Rakušan and Okamura in that order. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u88	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I will try to respond at least partially, especially to my previous speaker, Mr Michálek, some answers and, if necessary, the questions he raises, about 34 questions sent by Mr Třešňák, so, of course, we will prepare an answer for them, but I apologise, unfortunately, in the last month, the Ministry of Health has primarily dealt with this epidemic, the largest pandemic in the last 100 years, not only in the Czech Republic, but also in Europe and the world, and unfortunately, we have not dealt with so much with the handling of correspondence, but we will undoubtedly correct this, and we will answer those questions. I would perhaps go back to the beginning at all, as Mr Michálek spoke about it, to January and to the debate on masks and the like and always repeated performances that I had here 28. 1. In Europe, the first cases of confirmed Coronavirus disease were 24 in France. 1. These were the first cases that were, they were about the first three cases that were in France, that is, it is not that we would actually have information at that time in any way that there would be massive spread within the European continent, did not say within several continents, and that there would be any pandemic here. We were, of course, based on information from the ECDC as our principal partner, which, of course, pointed to a certain risk, the medium risk that the disease would be introduced into Europe, but certainly not on this scale. This is simply something that can never be expected, because if you look at the development of the pandemic, or the epidemic at the time, as it was referred to, even in Europe, and even about a month before the end of February, it was really very limited clusters within individual countries, very closed within units, possibly dozens of cases. There were no indications at the end of January that we would have tens, hundreds of thousands of cases of this disease. [[15.20 hours]] So it's really that famous after the battle, every general. I don't want to downplay this place. But to blame that at the end of January, January 28th, we should have known that there would be such a huge pandemic, it just isn't fair, it's not a fair argument. And even if we look at some historical experience, and in this regard the experience is mainly from SARS disease, which is actually a very similar example, of 80 percent very similar virus, there was not one case of SARS disease in the Czech Republic at the time. The outbreak remained within Asia, where the disease spread relatively. That is also why, of course, Asian countries are much better prepared today than we are, because they have the experience, they have gone through it. The Taiwan you're talking about, but other countries, they're the Asian countries that went through sarsa, they have experience. Of course, there was also an epidemic of swine flu and others. In short, those Asian countries have much more experience in this regard than we do, and they are better prepared for it than we are. That's right. Because if you have that experience, then you are already acting on it under some established procedures. We don't have that experience. No one's ever faced it here. It is clear that we have also made mistakes, but in this regard really refer to the fact that on January 28 we should have known that we would need tens of millions of masks and respirators here, it just isn't fair. And as the supplies were set up, it was actually set up on the basis of a pandemic plan that was approved, which is how they proceed. And the supplies that have been set up have been in the Administration of State Material Reserves since 2005 or 2006, by Minister Emmerová. For the first time, it was the one that set up the number of respirators within the Ministry of State Material Reserves, and each minister then kept only those supplies, including the Ministers of the ODS, the ČSSD and others. No one has decided on this: let's increase our stocks in the State Material Reserves Administration to 10 million respirators. No one decided on it, because the situation was such that it was probably not entirely clear that we would ever need such a thing. There were some basic supplies, which are obviously being used now, but no one has decided on a massive increase since Secretary Emmerová. So now, to blame Minister Vojtěch, why we didn't raise it to 10 million respirators, I don't think it's a fair argument again, because we were simply based on pandemic plans, as they were set up, when it was always expected that the supplies would be primarily within individual hospitals, when hospitals simply had a certain supply. But again, the supply was not sufficient, of course, the supply was for some epidemic that had been counting on maybe some units, dozens of cases, but certainly not the pandemic, which has been the largest in the last 100 years. So I don't want to make excuses here, but I just need to take some context, take some historical experience that was. And I think that, on the other hand, as the Czech Republic, we have dealt very well with the situation. We can look for a whole series of mistakes, and we certainly have made mistakes. It's obvious when you're dealing with something like this for the first time in this massive situation, so you're just making these mistakes, it's natural, but in the end, the total numbers are calculated, and it counts with handling the situation. And in this respect, the Ministry of Health has been extremely active, much more active than other countries, which is why today we have the so-called epidemiology curve so flattened, which is why we do not see our hospitals collapsing, that patients are disconnected from fans, because there is no room for others, and as we see it in Italy and other countries. And I think it is ultimately the main thing that we have prepared our hospitals, that was our main task, that they today have sufficient capacity to offer assistance to other states, that ultimately it did not happen, because it was not used, and we are able to provide care for these patients very well, without the hospitals feeling it in any way without collapse. And I think that's what we just worked off, and that's the final result that counts, whether you really have the system ready to handle the pandemic or not. And the Czech Republic has been and is able to do that, and we really should count that in this regard. It's the main criterion. That maybe the drapes were a week later. Yes, I also wish we had 10, 20 million masks and respirators at the beginning for everyone. Unfortunately, it wasn't, it wasn't set like that from the past. We've dealt with it within days. But I still think that today the Czech Republic, although there may still be some shortcomings in supply somewhere, is much better off than other countries, even richer countries than the Czech Republic, in terms of the availability of these safeguards. So I think that in this, too, we have worked a great deal together with the Ministry of the Interior. Today the Ministry of Health distributed over 11 million pieces of different respirators, masks and other protective equipment, similar number of Ministry of the Interior, orders are now set up, so we are able to deal with them for the following weeks, and I think that is also not completely wrong. So let's evaluate the situation in some context, objectively, yes, to draw attention to the mistakes that we need to learn from. If we simply went through this experience, I am convinced that next time we will be just like Taiwan and other countries, because we will already know how to proceed. If we had SARS here, we had a massive epidemic like the SARS epidemic in 2003, we would be in a different situation today. There is simply no historical experience here, and we need to learn from it, but I think it is important to objectively assess that we have done well. The Central Epidemiology Commission of course met, had already had about five meetings, there are invited people from all departments, they comment on the situation, so if there are no entries, I apologize, but the Central Epidemiology Commission met regularly every week and commented on the situation. I think that the measures that we have put in place are, of course, based on the opinion of the experts. It's not that the Minister of Health or one deputy invents this. It's some kind of expert consensus that we should have done something like this and it turned out to be the right thing to do. And now, and I'm getting to that next plan, because here's still a big theme: what's your plan, when are you going to open it and that? I actually set up an epidemiology group yesterday. It's not like she's sitting here for the first time, but I've given a clear task that I want us to prepare the plan. You may say late, but we've actually been dealing with an epidemic in the past few weeks. We didn't plan on what would happen next in the last few weeks. Now we're in a situation where we can afford it, that we've managed to manage the basic time of the last few weeks, that we don't have any exponential increase in patients, that the system is handling it. And now we are in a situation where we can prepare a clear plan for the gradual release of the measures. We'll prep him, we'll introduce him. I've given my colleagues the task of having the plan ready after Easter. He will be discussed within the professional public, and we have no problem discussing it. And indeed the plan will be presented and it is clear what it will look like. We will actually take gradual steps so that we do not jeopardize the relatively good situation, which is clear that it will, of course, be aimed at releasing some measures, but some measures will not be released until the last stage, such as mass events, cultural events, sporting events. Wherever more people meet in one place, it is clear that this is the greatest epidemiological risk, and there we will proceed very carefully. But when it comes to services, business, and so on, I think it's already happening, and it's going to happen in the next few weeks. And I'm sure we'll present the plan after Easter, so there's no problem with that. But we really couldn't focus on the plan after the pandemic at a time when we at the Ministry of Health and the Government were discussing how to deal with pandemics in the current situation, prepare hospitals, take measures and so on. You can't really do both. Now I think it's time. We did it pretty well. On the other hand, we can't be completely calm because the virus is here and the virus will be here. That's for sure. He doesn't get lost, he doesn't get destroyed, he's still gonna be here, and that's why we need to be very careful about releasing those measures so that there's no release of any measures, and then the number of patients will grow exponentially, and the whole work that we've done in the last few weeks will come to nothing. [[15.30 hours]] So we have to be very careful. Every break-up of this measure will be assessed on the basis of the data that I think we have at our disposal today, and transparently published. We are trying to publish the maximum data we have on the epidemiological situation within individual regions, etc., so here we are transparent. Among other things, and this will certainly be of interest to the pirát, the entire system of reporting, the publication of data we have also created actually ad hoc with the Institute of Health Information and Statistics. We built a repository in a few days. Everything is actually in house solution, no external services, reporting those data from county sanitation stations, laboratories, etc. So all the data you're seeing, the data that's being released today, and, of course, the other data, so we created in a few days. So I also think that it is a respectable work by colleagues who have worked on it, and I am convinced that the Ministry of Health has done a good job in this direction, that the results are actually calculated, and those results are. They're good. They might be a little bit better, but that's always what they would do, but anyway, I'm proud of what my colleagues did at the Ministry of Health. I think we've done some good work, and we're ready to continue this now. And I'm sure your questions, the 34 questions to Mr Třešňák or maybe the next one will be answered in the coming days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u89	Thank you, Minister. President Vít Rakušan is next to prepare President Okamura. Then there are more logged in. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u90	Thank you for your word. Mr President, members and members of the Government, colleagues, colleagues, a few brief remarks. If I were to evaluate the feeling of today's debate that we've been having all morning, it's more of a disappointment. Many questions have been raised and few answers have been answered. The debate was just one-sided for most of the day, most opposition politicians performed at the speaker's counter, the government somehow suffered that one of its members had to sit here and listen and experience this enormous boredom and maybe write some questions on the paper somewhere. An honest exception is the Minister of Health, who at least now tried to answer some of these questions. But actually, all the answers were heading back to the past. He defended the Ministry of Health's actions, said what the Ministry prepared, did, but here we are not in any major dispute. We, in fact, supported a number of government actions as opposition. But today's item is not an evaluation of how the government of the Czech Republic has worked, but it is a request to prolong the emergency situation. And in this matter, we just didn't get the answers. There have been quite specific questions as to why, for example, the legal provisions of the Public Health Act cannot be applied at this time and why it is necessary to continue to apply the special emergency regime. The answer just didn't work out. We as opposition have come here, and you have certainly seen this at our press conferences this morning, with the fact that we are prepared to support the emergency situation for some time limit if the government gives us clear arguments and explains why the emergency situation should be extended under these circumstances. There's been an evaluation of what the government's done, but there was this prediction missing, that look in the future, and that's why we're actually meeting here today. Well, I'll follow up on the Minister of Health, too. He said that after Easter, the plan would be ready. Well, that fits exactly the ODS proposal to extend the emergency to 14 days. Okay, so without any clear arguments, the government is telling us: we need an emergency. We expected that these arguments would have more weight, that they would have a clearer argument, but good, we also want to support the government as opposition, let us agree on these 14 days, as the ODS proposes, and then the Minister and other ministers will come, for example, the Prime Minister, with some concrete plan for how life in the Czech Republic will gradually return to normal, or when it will happen, or why they need emergency conditions, or in what regime it is necessary for the Czech Republic to continue to move, i.e. ideally those 14 days as such. And here in the Prime Minister's argument, we've heard sentences about the virus being here that can't be predicted how it's going to behave, and that's the only prediction that's here. Let us look at our neighboring countries, but also those who can handle it. Maybe Austria can't be considered a country that can't handle. Any of you who can speak German or read a transcript, have you seen Prime Minister Sebastian Kurz's speech? Have you seen him? Well, it was the Prime Minister, the chancellor, who gave the prediction that gave a view of the future, which justified quite openly and transparently, why the government, which is taking and what measures it is taking and when it will eventually be dissolved. And you know what happened at the end? Looking into the hall of the Austrian Chancellor, the opposition also applauded the Kurz. Everyone applauded him because they felt that the statesman had spoken to them, that a person who at that time of crisis could lead the nation through the unpleasant events that awaited him, and that they were confident that he was telling them the truth, that he was not afraid of discussing with them, and that they were sure that he would lead them somewhere to their destination. Unfortunately, we lack that confidence here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. President Tomio Okamura is next and President Filip is ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to the invitation of the ministers to ask questions. So I'd like to ask you about the actual thing. I am being approached by desperate citizens of Most and Litvínov with regard to the pandemic of coronavirus, as the government made use of the exception from the crisis law at the time of the closure of national borders and emergency and gave permission for 595 foreign workers to arrive. It's 575 foreign workers and 20 specialists. Unipetrol will not be responsible for the health of these workers and experts, but allegedly external companies that will send them here. And the above list of workers suggests that it may be an abuse of the exception from the crisis law, because in the case of workers, foreign workers, it is undoubtedly not a highly specialised specialist who could not replace workers from the Czech Republic, but it is a normal agency foreign workers. I'm saying again, it's a group of 600 people. Six hundred people to the Most and to Litvínov and the surrounding area. And even in the case of alleged 20 specialists, it is worth considering whether we will actually find 20 equally qualified people in the Czech Republic. And I'm being approached by desperate citizens of Most and Litvínov and we're their party. I already intersected in this sense yesterday both Prime Minister Babiš and Minister of the Interior Hamáček, and today I already told Minister Hamáček, I will get to that, what is the real situation, because what the Minister says and the reality is completely different. And I'd just say the structure. These are 270 citizens of Slovakia, 245 Polák and there are Němec, Francouz, Rakušan, Belgičan and Nizozemec, which are also according to the official information of risky countries. And the government's assurance that workers, but only those from risky countries, that is, from Germany, Austria, France, Benelux, are to be tested for corona is smiling because the infected person does not have to show symptoms for 14 days after the infection, and therefore one test does not say anything at all. And I want to ask the Minister of the Interior Hamáček and the Prime Minister who just left, but he certainly hears: How will you ensure the security of the citizens of Most, Litvínov and the surrounding area? What about the 14-day quarantine of those foreign workers? And they're due to arrive in the next few days because you granted them permission, even though there is an emergency situation in the Czech Republic. And how will their surveillance be done in quarantine? Next, I'd like to ask who authorized this whole thing without quarantine. Who will bear any responsibility for the consequences if, from this group of 600 foreigners, which is a huge number, the possible contagion will spread to the citizens of the area? I also have another question because they are supposed to be only quarantined in the framework of the measures, which means Unipetrol will keep an eye on them at work so they don't go anywhere. But what about the free time quarantine, when they're brought from work to a hotel or some hostel, so Unipetrol says on their website that they have limited options to control them outside the workplace, and it's, again, I say, 600 people. How will it be guaranteed not to move around the city in their spare time by strangers who have not been quarantined - I stress, have not been quarantined - and have been in contact with the locals? [[no]] [[15.40 hours]] Minister Hamáček tried last week to reassure local citizens that he would not agree this way and that he wants everyone to be accommodated together outside the city center and guarded by soldiers or policemen. Soldiers or cops to keep an eye on these 600 people. But that's 600 people, I'm stressing again. But suddenly it's different, and according to the latest information, they left accommodation for foreigners on foreign suppliers of Unipetrol, i.e. completely out of control. And they say Unipetrol's gonna drive food to work so they don't go anywhere. But who will bring them food after work to prevent them from moving around the city if they haven't been quarantined? And where in particular will they be accommodated? the citizens of Most and Litvínov ask. Unipetrol left it on foreign suppliers, as they write on their websites and as described above. So what Minister Hamáček said is completely different. And how much security will be provided for the facility where they'll live? This huge group of foreign workers who are due to come to Most and Litvínov these days? To sum up, the point is that the citizens of Most and Litvínov feel, and I feel with them that they were faced with a crazy situation, when the government will bring 600 foreigners to them in an emergency period in the next few days, these foreigners will not go into quarantine even for 14 days like everyone else and do not have to follow the rules as citizens of the Czech Republic. And I think - and besides, the government wants to test only 20 of them, only those of those Western countries, and the other 575 do not. And they live together, and the state says they'll take care of soldiers or cops so they don't move around town on their own time, etc. So here's an incredible number of questions. And I'm saying this publicly so the government can answer the questions. We're on the side of the citizens of the Ústí Region. It's a place where a lot of people live, even socially weaker people, and they're scared. So I'm asking you to answer these questions. And why am I using this space? Because the government has to respond to a written interview in 30 days. But the situation is urgent, the workers are due in a matter of days. Therefore, I would ask for an urgent answer. And at the same time, there was talk of someone just criticizing and trying. So I wanted to tell you for SPD, it's a typical example of us being constructive and working and trying. As many of you know, three weeks ago, I approached directly the Japanese manufacturer of the anti-coronavirus drug. His name is Avigan. I approached him myself, I wrote him in Japanese directly to that Toyama Chemical company, it's a sub-firm under Fujifilm, and they wrote directly to me from the Japanese side that they were willing to discuss the supply of this medicine to the Czech Republic. After that, I also involved the Japanese Embassy, and the Japanese Ambassador, with whom I have a good relationship, directly approached the Japanese Foreign Ministry, and we also pushed it this way. Based on a positive response from Japan, when they wrote to me directly from the manufacturer that they were willing to discuss the delivery of this medicine to the Czech Republic, I handed these contacts to the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch because the Japanese party said that they had to receive an official request from the Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs because it was about delivering the drug abroad outside Japan. And we have great news, because based on my contacts, Japan decided, and here's a letter from the Japanese embassy from yesterday when Japan's Foreign Minister Motegi told us they wouldn't sell us the drug, but they're gonna give it to us. They ranked the Czech Republic among twenty countries on the basis of this activity, to which they will deliver this experimental drug free of charge. I also have to thank the Minister for his cooperation, because he handed over the relay from me to his office and officially proceeded in this meeting. And I have to say, and I'm glad that Mr. Satoshi Teramura here from the Japanese Embassy is thanking me for the initiative that he's managed to arrange and complete. So now I have a question for the Minister, because I'm not saying this here to describe my entire activity, but the question is, Minister, when does this medicine get to Czech citizens? When will this medicine reach Czech citizens? Because what I could have done to the opposition, that is. I have made use of my contacts, I have arranged a cure for citizens of the Czech Republic against coronavirus. You as a government then made it, these pre-negotiated contacts, and now Japan will even give us the cure for free, and it is confirmed. The action went well. I think it's great that we're taking concrete steps from the SPD, and so my question is, because the Japanese party has already written to me that it will give us this for free, put us on the list of twenty countries that will be given for free because of it, and now my question is, Minister, if you have any information on when it will physically reach Czech patients. Thank you for your attention, and I beg your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The next is President Vojtěch Filip, followed by President Ivan Bartoš and then there are other speakers. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u94	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I am very brief. I have already said in my introductory words that today we are discussing whether we will take over or not take responsibility for extending the emergency situation, and here is a show of how many who or how the government will answer. That is what we can do in the various drafts of laws that the government is proposing, so let's ask them about it. I think we've exhausted the subject, and I don't think we're supposed to be offering some sort of position of unappreciated Taiwan in the international community here, because we're just going to complicate our situation. I could be talking here about how much the Socialist Republic of Vietnam has helped us in the supply, even though it is facing a pandemic itself. I consider the comments that are here to be quite inappropriate, and I consider it important that we realise our own responsibility, and I call you to point this debate rather towards that conclusion, that is, whether we want to or do not want to take responsibility for prolonging the emergency situation, because it is up to us to do so, it is our constitutional duty. And we ourselves have knowledge of whether or not there is a situation where the emergency situation needs to be extended. As a Member of the South Bohemia Region, a person who deals with the situation, with knowledge from various regions of the Czech Republic, I declare that there is a reason, a constitutional reason, to comply with the government to extend the emergency situation, I proposed until 30. 4. I know why I'm doing this, and I don't need any more reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u95	Thank you. It's Mr. Chairman Ivan Bartoš's turn to sign up for him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u96	Maybe I'd just react a little bit more to what the President of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip has just accused us of. The situation we're going to prolong is to be extended on the basis of arguments for its extension. The ministers of this government sit here, and I think that would be the most ideal for everyone to perform here - I am glad that Minister Hamáček, partly a thumb of mountain here for Minister Vojtěch - and to say: I need this, because I plan A, B, C, and we will need this, we will change this, and the laws that we propose solve key issues either health or social care, or financial issues, or entrepreneurs, or those. That's not what's happening here. There is some proposal for about 15 laws, which we will then vote on in the next meeting. And I wanted to ask the Minister, here were a number of questions. I don't think it would be a problem to solve 30 specific questions in almost a month, and that answer of yours, and forgive me, it was almost like your Mr. Prime Minister Babiš's style. Because he's not here, after the battle, every general is. You're saying how you knew. Mr. ODS MP here, former Mayor of Prague, spoke here in January and said: It will probably spread, the world organization talks about it, the pandemic will be here, let's talk about how ready we are. And you and the arrogance of your government have cut that point, and that debate hasn't been discussed. I've seen such a rather funny video, so time goes on, drapes and respirators, who said what time. And all this time you've been saying for the health department how it's okay, how it's on the way, we're buying respirators, 4. 3rd order, they're on their way. And 14. 3. - and that's a funny picture of you looking at Minister Hamáček - 14. 3. confessed Vojtěch: We are missing a million respirators. 14. 3. That's half of March! [[15.50 hours]] If according to the supposed pandemic plan - and you didn't play who saves the Czech Republic, they didn't have a press conference every day - established by the Central Crisis Staff, at the head of which is the Ministry, which has really also from its equipment and from its processes tools, how to deal with the situation, and in January we would learn that it was missing, that a crisis crew would be set up to run the Interior Minister, that the logistics of the order would start to be dealt with, that you wouldn't argue, that one weekend you would go to Mr. Hamáček - I am defending the Minister for Social Democracy, well - you kicked him on Facebook, that health care is bleeding, that it's almost his fault. Then he responded to it, it was the gunfight. x days later, you and Secretary Maláčová here are blaming yourself if the fact that there is no equipment in the elderly's homes and homes is the fault of the health department or the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. So if you could answer the questions that have been raised here, or Mr. Třešňák, but here maybe the central committee that deals with epidemiology, who's there, how the information gets, so that one day from three people, we don't hear any different opinions about how we're going to proceed - it would seem fair to me before you polish your name here and somehow correct the image of the Ministry of Health. Because the fact that it was on the table in January - in February the European Union in its report wrote information to the Member States on how to prepare, what things to buy, what things to lack. Yeah, the paper - I can show it to you, I can send it to you - it was also from early February. So the situation in this matter was known. I don't have a problem here like-- we don't want to go back to that. But now that there's room for what's gonna happen, please don't justify the mistakes of alibis that someone underestimated something or that you're being criticized for something that didn't happen. I'm not blaming the Ministry of Health primarily, but instead of 14 days of PR and individual media outputs, there could be a crisis crew that could handle it, and maybe today we'd be on the curve that President Hamáček talked about further at that point, we'd have the results and we'd have a 14-day lead that we don't have. That's why we're going to wait and prolong the emergency, because at first, the government just didn't follow the pandemic plan of 2011 and it didn't go through the standard process, because it was just PR for you that was more important.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u97	Have a good afternoon and we will continue the general debate. So with priority rights now Vice-President of the House, Chairman of the ODS Petr Fiala, will prepare the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the phrase 'I did not want to speak, but...' is often used here. I don't use that phrase, but I'm signing up for it today. To my performance, I was provoked by the words of the Minister of Health. And I'm going to respond to some things because it's not just about the past, but it's also about the future process and the plan that we still can't wait to see here. Minister, you were here talking about the fact that no one could know in January and no one could know and how you did well and so on. But I want to remind you, and I want to remind this House and the public that they were people, experts, doctors who might have suspected, knew and feared this possible development. And it was Professor Bohuslav Svoboda, a Member of the Civil Democratic Party who spoke here and said in his speech that he did not want to cause panic, but that the House and the people in the Czech Republic should be assured that the government is able to respond if things do not evolve in the way that we all wish. And in that speech, he talks about how coronavirus spreads in China, what it means, what it means in terms of transferring citizens between China and European countries, what possible mutations mean and that there is simply a need to count on different variations of development and that the Czech Republic must prepare for them and that he wants to hear from the government the assurance that we are ready for different variants of this development, even negative ones. That's what happened here. And what we undoubtedly blame you for and we will blame you for is that you didn't want to have this debate, that you didn't want to hear it, that you didn't want to answer those questions and that you just didn't count on it - and you are admitting it yourself today - didn't count on some of the variations that, unfortunately, turned out to be real. And please don't say that no one knew and couldn't have known. Bohuslav Svoboda here spoke with the fact that the variants are unfortunately possible and that we have to prepare for them. Not that he knew how it was going to be, but he knew that it was possible that the situation would not develop the way we all wanted it to be and how the Ministry of Health allowed it to be the only option. And admitting this one possibility and preventing debate in the Chamber of Deputies was a mistake that cost us time and better preparation. Second point. You're talking about favorable curves, favorable development. We'd all like that to happen, and we're happy with every good news, and we'll be happy to have that curve. But - I've already talked about it in my performance and I'll repeat it again - experts repeatedly talk about not being tested enough. Many of the curves you refer to refer to the number of tests that are performed daily, but the number of tests varies every day, and in addition, the tests report only the number of tests, not the number of persons tested. Therefore, some of the data or the conclusions that we draw from this are not entirely relevant. Again, I wish this development was what it looked like, how the numbers were interpreted, and if that's the case, that's a good thing. But every expert is telling us today, and I have no reason not to believe that in order to know, we need to test in a much more representative way than we are testing today. I am also talking about this because I would expect from the Ministry of Health, the government here today, some idea of how we will increase the number of people who are being tested, the people who are being tested, and how we will ensure that we have really relevant data and make decisions according to them. As far as the protective equipment is concerned. We, Minister, dear members of the government, would also understand that there have been mistakes, that things did not have to succeed, that some things did not go as we all imagined. But what we can't understand and what you can't explain today is why the government wasn't telling the truth, why it wasn't acting openly, why you told us at press conferences that they were protective aids. But what about us, the people. Doctors, nurses, people in the field knew they didn't have the medical supplies. You guys talked about them being there and bringing them to everyone. And if it happens once, it happens twice. You said that again in the case of seniors, in the case of senior homes, in the case of social services. And the situation was the same again. They just didn't have the tools. If you were to speak frankly, they said, "you can't get it, you can't get it, you can't get it, you can't get it, you can't get it, you can't get it, you can't get it, you can't get it in a week," we'd be seeing people's creativity again, just like we've finally witnessed in the case of those drapes and helping other and other entrepreneurs who were simply looking for these protective equipment at their expense and helped. But the openness of the government in this critical situation, the true information, is a fundamental assumption that we should be able to cope with this. And on your part, Minister, it just wasn't, not from the others, I'm not saying everyone, but from other members of the government. And today I'm asking you again where's the plan? You say after Easter. But why don't you at least come up with a plan if you're going to ask for an extension of the emergency? We didn't hear any. What is the idea of protecting people at risk, what is the idea of increased protection for seniors, what is the idea of increased protection for people with reduced immunity? Which is the basic assumption. I mean, we all read it and we hear it and we talk to the experts, we have them around us. This is a fundamental assumption that we can mitigate the measures, which we all want. What's the plan here, what's the government's idea? And instead of a plan, and instead of being able to explain these things clearly on this House, in front of us and in front of the public, today, all we're going to see are vague answers and defenses of the past that don't add up. [[16.00 hours]] Professor Prymula said in public: we're going to sea the population. Then the members of the government will come forward and say, in no way is this true. So is the government following the procedures, the recommendations of the experts, the procedures proposed by Professor Prymula, or is this some other political decision, according to any other criteria? You also owe this to the public to explain. People are often confused about these measures, they don't know which ones they pay because what they pay in the morning doesn't pay in the afternoon or the next day. Moreover, no idea of how you will proceed further, what will be the next steps, how you will ensure the protection of risk groups, how you will create the conditions for us to implement some kind of liberalisation, to get back to normal life, what the conditions for this are and how you want to meet them. We haven't heard anything like it here. So, Minister and members of the government, these aren't inventions of the opposition, it's not a political struggle. We are the voice of the people who ask these questions. And we are transferring these questions to public space. We have the right to ask you to answer them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u99	The President of the ODS member's club Zbyněk Stanjura will now act with priority and the Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček will prepare himself. Prime Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u100	Thank you for the floor. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I think we did not meet at this meeting to criticize the government. I'm sure the time will come, but the time hasn't come yet. However, many leaders or ministers of government feel that the question is also a criticism. I don't think so. And when we ask a question, we want an answer. President Fiala has already responded, I think enough, to the Minister of Health. I'll tell you what I'm missing, and I think many of my fellow citizens were missing in today's government appearances. And that's hope. Hope for some optimism. Unfortunately, we haven't seen anything like it yet. These measures are difficult for many of us, and the opposition as a whole actually supported them. And again, we're gonna say that the opposition is playing their political games. It's not true. Our citizens are disciplined, creative and contribute to the fact that we manage this relatively - I note the word relatively - well as the Czech Republic. But time is running out, we're in an emergency for almost a month, and I and many others have expected something that will give us hope that the government knows what it will do, when it will do it, under what conditions it can do it. Not that he wants or doesn't want to, but that he can. And I basically have one big request for members of the government to discuss their disputes, which are logical, understandable humanly and professionally, outside the media. So they don't spread chaos, because then people lose hope. I'll give you a few cases. And don't take it as a criticism, more like a sigh, and a request that you do those press releases when you agree, and tell us as opposition, because the debate between the government and the opposition is much smaller than I would like you to tell us where you're going to run the state. I don't think it's possible for the Prime Minister to say, and I liked it: we're going to loosen up the measures. And the Vice Prime Minister will come forward and say: we will not loosen up the measures. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will come forward, and I find it likable, and he says: we should test as many seniors as possible, that is a priority. I would have signed it. The Prime Minister will come forward and say: we have no capacity, we will test the staff where our seniors are being cared for. Mr. Prymula will come out and say, "We're going to get a sea, I've changed my mind, it turns out China hasn't given us true data." And the Prime Minister and the Vice Prime Minister will say: we will not do it. - The request is to make a deal and tell us what it's gonna be. I could talk about opening schools, a case like that. It's only chaos, chaos, but also uncertainty. Not only to the ranks of the opposition, it would not be so important, but to the ranks of the citizens. We came here today to hear good reasons for prolonging the emergency, and we haven't heard them yet. I'm bohužel so. And we're supposed to vote and issue a de facto bingo check. And without that plan, it's extremely difficult even for one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u101	He will now speak with priority rights, so far it is the last request for a performance with priority rights, Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček. Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u102	Thank you. I would try to speak to what Vice-President Okamura said here, this is the situation in Unipetrol. Mr Vice-President through the President, you are not the only one handling the situation in Unipetrol. I almost have a file on Unipetrol at the Home Office. And I understand that the situation is not simple. Unipetrol is a company that belongs to critical infrastructure, which means that it provides the supply of the commodity we need to function the economy, for that reason it is also included there, and therefore Unipetrol is subject to the relevant exception that we have granted as a government. This means that when critical infrastructure workers arrive for service, they can be admitted to the Czech Republic. We had a rather extensive debate with Unipetrol because we didn't see it coming either. We didn't see the timing, we didn't see the volume of those workers, the number of those workers, and so there were some negotiations going on and on. The situation is evolving over time. I am communicating with local politicians and with the Members of Parliament elected for this area. And I want to make one thing perfectly clear. If we don't agree with Unipetrol that we will all be satisfied and that we will pay the guarantees that fell at the beginning, then no workers from abroad will come. It's under the authority of the Home Office, the police, and if it turns out that some promises don't apply, if it turns out that there are risks you described, then we'll just put it off, and until it's cleared, no one will come to Unipetrol to fix any downtime. We are ready to negotiate, we are taking this constructively, but it is not possible to create any uncertainty or confusion at this time. So I'm saying this on the microphone here, if it doesn't clear up, and if the guarantees aren't clear enough to calm down the situation in Most and Litvinov, we won't let any workers into the Czech Republic. Very openly, Poland is also not being very helpful to the Czech Republic in this, so I guess we will have to clarify this. But I want to assure you all that we are following this situation and we will not allow anything to endanger or undermine our citizens. So much for Unipetrol. And only to Prime Minister Stanjur. So, of course, we try to give hope, we try to convince our citizens that we can do this together. I wonder how this debate today will contribute to that hope, when we are here under the fire of criticism, and we have to de facto, we have to - at a point that, from my point of view, is simple, there is yes or no. I would, if there was any interest, I'd welcome the inclusion of the government's information point, where we can talk about it. But this is a proposal to say yes or no to extend the emergency, and there's a simple answer, yes or no. However, I have tried to answer questions, explain the steps of the government. Maybe I was too open here when I described that writing a paper plan for an epidemic with which there is no experience, so we're trying to get information from the world as they dealt with it. They've been dealing with it their own way. They've been dealing with it differently somewhere. Now we are looking for the best experience in the world, so that we can do it, and it is definitely not our aim to damage the Czech Republic. We're trying to find a solution to make the best of it. It doesn't always work because it's just to some extent an unexplored area. So the situation isn't easy. [[16.10 hours]] And we're trying to give all these people hope. I'm asking myself what hope to give those first-line workers. The fact that Parliament is having a fight here, and political parties are going to show up in the finals, and they're going to say they're just going to vote against the extension. What does that mean? Does that mean after April 11th, we're gonna shut it down and get out of here? Or how is this government supposed to work? Now I don't think about ODS, there have been other statements from other political parties that they'll be against extension at all. But I took it that extending the emergency is extending the legal framework in which we are moving. I took it that the criticism from the opposition, that at the beginning of the crisis we were moving a little out of crisis management, or that it wasn't always completely standard, had a certain ratio, so we went into the regime under crisis law, we're there now, and if we want to extend it, it's wrong again. Well, I'll admit I'm getting a little lost here, too. I understand that we are parliamentary democracy, thank God for the government's accounts, the Member is composed of the House, and I agree with that. But I'm kind of looking for where the hope should be when the debate tonight is actually drowning in attacks and accusations about who did what wrong. Of course we didn't do everything right. And certainly, when this is all over, when we beat the epidemic - and I believe we're going to beat it, and that's part of the hope I'm trying to give our citizens - so let's get together with some committee of inquiry and tell them what to do. She's gonna have to meet anyway, because we're gonna have to say what happened wrong and how to prepare for it not to happen again, because it's possible that some kind of epidemic of this type is coming. So I'd just like us to approach this rationally, and maybe leave part of the speeches and the arguments and the advice and the recommendations aside from that committee of inquiry, because now we're really dealing with it in the quotes of the combat regime. We have to make that decision now, because if we make them a day later, there are infinite consequences. I'm sure we'll make a whole series of mistakes. I've made a lot of mistakes, too, and I've apologized for a lot of things. But I would like us not to overdo it, because if we're going to send a signal to our citizens, that's not the government, but the entire political representation kind of knows which way to go. But if the result from today is that we fought like horses or we fought here, and we don't know what to do with it, and the government is doing it wrong, and actually part of the opposition wouldn't prolong the emergency situation, so what's this signal to the public? I admit that we haven't done things right or ideally in a lot of ways. But I say again, and I refer to my first performance: It is the first time and there was no other government of the Czech Republic in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u103	So now, with priority right, the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura and will prepare Ms Hana Aulická. I don't have any other prior rights applications yet. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u104	I'm gonna talk to the Home Secretary now. Minister, I don't know if we listened to each other. I didn't criticize or give advice. All I had to ask was that you don't exchange opinions on serious matters before you agree. This seems quite logical to me, and I think it would be welcome not only by the opposition, but above all by our citizens. First of all. I'm not calling for an investigation committee at all. However, of course, the government could have come up with what you said, and it seems quite logical to me that the first point would be government information and then vote to prolong the emergency situation, that we could have gotten answers to those questions why it should be extended. You didn't bring it up. I don't think we'd block it. I would also find it more logical to discuss the laws that are needed first. We still have four days to decide to extend the emergency situation, whereas, for example, help for businessmen is a question I think of hours and days. But okay. We accepted, and we didn't argue about how we'd put the meetings behind us. So far, I have noted the only relevant argument that this government - and now I am not criticizing it, I am describing the situation - has carried out a maneuver, and you have first taken the restrictive measures under the crisis law - I am sorry that I am not quoting it precisely - and then you have given the maneuver that it is under the Public Health Act. Now I'm saying I'm not criticizing it, I'm just saying. You've announced it yourself at press conferences. This means, for those restrictive measures, you yourself have decided that you do not need a crisis law, and you have applied another law that can be applied without emergency conditions. The only argument I made today in the debate was that you couldn't buy so-called out of hand, which I understand. That is the relevant argument. We have prepared an amendment to the Public Procurement Act, which we can approve today, which provides an exception for this area by the end of the year. Sorted. And we don't need an emergency. And I didn't hear any other reason. I'm bohužel so. That's not criticism, that's a statement. That's why you did it, Minister. It's okay. We've come up with a solution... We understand. It's a relevant argument. It is not possible to follow standard tenders, time limits, etc. But we have a solution that wouldn't need an emergency. So if that's the only reason, then we can work things out differently. I'm not saying we're right about this. But we're ready, so it's not just saying or waiting for what you say, and then we say right or wrong. We have come up with this - you know, Minister, that we have sent you an amendment to the crisis law because we cannot discuss parliamentary proposals in an emergency or in a state of legislative emergency. I don't know how you look at it, whether it's good or bad. So it's not like we're just waiting and criticizing. We ourselves come up with our own proposals and try to help in this situation. Helping citizens and businesses to keep their money and to cope with the difficult situation. That's all. So the debate that's going on today, at least from our side, is relevant, unattackable, uncritical, unless, of course, you consider the questions a criticism. I've said it before. I don't consider the question a criticism. I ask, I get an answer, and that's how I decide whether I do or not. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u105	So now I have two priority rights here, so Mrs Aulická will still have to wait, I am sorry as a lady. So the chairman of the Pirate Club, Jakub Michálek, has signed up and will be prepared by the Chairman of the TOP 09, Mrs Pekarová Adamová. You have your word. And the Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček is still reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u106	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and Gentlemen, on these contracts. I quoted it here in my analysis - now for President Stanjuru. Perhaps if you, President Stanjur, could clarify what you are proposing for these contracts, because the law already predicts it, there is no need for change. So it is possible to proceed there according to the provisions of the applicable law, it is not bound to an emergency. However, I wanted to thank you for the answers I received from the Minister of Health, who promised to give Petr Třešňák an answer to his questions. And thank you for your reply to Minister Hamáček, who will clarify - and if I understand correctly that the main argument is to give the situation and crisis management a clearer legal framework. However, I would still like to ask about, respectively. Remind me of the remaining questions. Minister Hamáček here spoke of cooperation with other states. I appreciate it, and I think that's right. And I wanted to ask if there was any cooperation with Taiwan, because in the capital city of Prague we received very detailed materials from Taiwan, which point to one of the best practices in the world, where they managed to achieve only ten daily increases in infected persons, so if cooperation is taking place in this regard. And ask for some comment from the Prime Minister or the Minister of the Interior on the transparency of the purchase that it will be continuously published across all departments immediately, who, what, for how much he purchased, in what quality. And then there's the question that I have here about whether the government will remedy the legal flaws regarding the justification of the measures, that's probably for Minister Vojtěch, and the ban on the representativeships on Minister Hamáček and on the compensation regime for Minister Schillerová. So I dare ask for answers to these questions. And otherwise, I'm more in favour of extending the emergency situation by the end of April. However, at the same time, I think that our parliamentary debate also serves to ask the opposition questions, to get answers to them, because, of course, the public is also interested in those answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u107	So I will now ask for the speech of the chairwoman of the TOP 09 to Mrs Pekarová Adamová and prepare the Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u108	Thank you for the floor. It's more like a technical remark in character to Minister Hamáček, because he's basically pretty much twisting what we're dealing with here in his speech. We're not really criticizing you. We're asking questions. We want answers. And I had my post during the morning, and so far I haven't been able to answer a lot of those questions. And they really are important to us for making decisions. I'll only mention a few of them. There was a clear promise, i.e. that we would be at about ten thousand tests a day at this time, we are less than half of them. When, then, can we expect this promise to be fulfilled? That means when it comes to reality? One of those questions. [[16.20 hours]] The next question was about protecting those endangered groups, how you plan to do it, what exactly is going to be done in the next few weeks - but really specifically -. The next question I asked was how it would be with care for patients who need not care for coronavirus, but also with other diseases, of course there are thousands of them, so as we ride on the normal regimen in hospitals, ambulances in doctors, so that patients with other diseases, as well as prevention, started again. There were specific questions here, only there were so many more of my performances, and we still couldn't hear the answers. They were also asked here by other colleagues, and unfortunately, the answers here were much less than those questions. From this point of view, I think the debate is inadequate, even though it's been going on for so long. And I don't see why we shouldn't just ask, on the contrary, we have to ask, we are actually speaking for citizens here, but at the same time we need us and citizens to hear the answers. So that's what we asked you to do. It's not a criticism, it's really just an effort to learn more. And, of course, information is necessary for this decision, it is necessary, and we cannot make decisions based on the fact that we say that an emergency situation is needed in order to do so. We want to know the specifics. And unfortunately, you're not really going into that detail yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u109	So I will now ask for the speech of the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, and prepare for the general debate by Mrs Hana Aulická. Minister, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u110	I admit I'm probably getting off for the last time, and I'm just wondering if there's any point. Too bad Zbyněk Stanjura isn't here. I didn't want to touch him, my reaction wasn't exactly for his performance, it was for that series of performances. It is true that he was very moderate and consensual in his speech, so I would not like him to take it personally. But if he really means that he understood that the only reason for a crisis or an emergency is to buy directly and that we're going to change the law, then I just assume that if we're having a debate, we're entering it with some elementary knowledge of the relevant laws. I can, of course, read here what the government could not do if there was no emergency, that is, could not order the evacuation of persons and property from the defined territory, could not prohibit the entry, residence and movement of persons at defined locations, could not order mandatory reporting of temporary change of residence, could not order the deployment of soldiers in active service and fire protection units to carry out emergency measures, could not order priority supply of children's health or social facilities, armed forces, security forces and components of the integrated rescue system, critical infrastructure elements etc. These are all the warrants that give the government a crisis law. And if we got into the absurd that we're going to say that we don't really need the crisis law, because we're going to change the standard laws for each of my cases listed, I think it's a little catty. But maybe I don't see it that way. To the Member or Chairman Pekarová Adamová. I don't have an ambition to perform for the Department of Health, but okay, here are three questions. The first time there'll be 10,000 tests. When there's capacity. If today there is a problem with the supply of the collection sets because it is testing the whole of Europe and the Czech production may not be because there is simply no one in the Czech Republic who is able to produce it and we have to carry it from abroad, so well, we have solved it, we have imported several tens of thousands of collection sets after we have exhausted supplies from veterinarians and I don't know who everything in the Czech Republic is solved. Now, if I'm not mistaken, there's a problem with other chemicals or substances that are needed to run those testing devices, because it's just testing all of Europe. So when we have enough materials - of course you can tell us that we should have bought it in January, but in January no one thought we'd need to test 10,000 people a day - so when it's bought, it'll work. How we will protect our citizens. Well, I suppose we're listening to ourselves at press conferences. I am here to the death repeating how many protective equipment have been delivered to individual regions to individual health institutions, social care institutions, tables are on the website of the Ministry of the Interior. So how do we protect them? We'll just give them respirators and drapes. I don't know what else you need to hear. If you are asking about the measures, how will it be if they are patients who are positive and do not have health complications, so they will not be in hospitals, so we have taken the appropriate steps in agreement with the government: either isolation will be created in the senior home and the staff who will take care of the elderly will receive complete protective equipment, i.e. suit, shield, respirator, sleeves, gloves, those sets are made on the edges and are available if necessary. If the isolation cannot be created, the patient or the client will be transferred to a specialized facility either hospital or social, which regions according to government regulations or regulations. The Ministry's methodological instruction is created, and each region has the capacity of several hundred beds. That's what we said about eight times at a press conference. And what about the patients in the routine? Madam President, through the President, I do not know. I don't know if it's gonna happen to us that in a week, intensive care units will be filled by patients with ARDS, like they did in Italy or France. That's why we're going to do this because we don't know what's coming. But we're also ready for the option that people with respiratory complications just show up here, and that's what the capacities are up to, and that's why the surgeries are being postponed. Now, we can agree to free up the capacity, but if we do and there's a problem next week, you're probably gonna be standing here blaming us for killing someone here. All I'm saying is that we can really work with the information we have, we can estimate some development in the Czech Republic, but none of us have a crystal ball. So much for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u111	So now with priority rights, I don't see anyone who's interested. And he does, Mr. Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch will step out and prepare Mrs. Hana Aulická and then Mrs. Finance Minister Alena Schillerová will report. So, madam, just a moment longer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u112	I'm just very brief to respond, too, so that only Vice Prime Minister Hamáček doesn't have to respond to those health questions. As regards the protection of risk groups, which are, of course, seniors, polymorbid patients, as the Minister said, we have already taken a number of measures and those measures are already in place. And if we really look at the data, we're already able to prevent the spread of the disease in other social services facilities. Indeed, the increase is not another, however massive at first, some devices have been hit, but not in total. And I think we're going to continue this now, by agreeing that from tomorrow we're going to commit to regional tests so that they can test the employees of the given social services facilities, i.e. There should be a lot of regular testing, because it's actually the only source of infection today that could mean that the disease will spread in those social services facilities, because we've taken measures, that was one of the first, 9. 3., no visitors, it will no doubt continue. Then the order to test every new client of these given services, unless they have a negative test for COVID-19, cannot be accepted into the social facilities, and therefore now the general testing of all employees of social residence services. So these are the basic three sources of potential contagion, how the disease can get into those facilities through employees, through new clients, or by some kind of visit, by a third person. And we have all of these, or we'll have them covered. So in this regard, I think we've already done enough work to protect those risk groups, assuming, of course, that they have enough protective equipment, which is what the Home Secretary is doing, I think, now very well. On the issue of the functioning of health care itself, I am already starting to look at it, because it is clear that we have reduced the planned care quite significantly, Mr KaňkovskKaňkovský also spoke about it here. It had its reasons at the time, of course we didn't know exactly how the system would be used, so to prepare it for the possible rush of hundreds and thousands of new patients with COVID-19 disease, so we had to do this. It was, I think, a very good decision. However, we can now see that the capacity is very sufficient, that really because we managed to manage the epidemic quite well, so the number of hospitalized cases is not increasing, it is still around 300 to 350, it is relatively constant, and so are patients who are connected to artificial pulmonary ventilation, and they are about 70 to 80 and that number is not substantially increasing, so we know that we have managed this. [[16.30 hours]] And I'm asking myself, and I'm already dealing with my fellow experts within the clinical group COVID-19, which we have at the Ministry of Health led by Professor Černý, if we really don't make a change in the sense that we'd loosen up the possibility of carrying out other performances that have now been suspended, so that health can also gradually restart, let's say, and even those patients who, fortunately, still have an overwhelming majority, non-cooperative patients who have a whole range of other health problems, so that they can get to that care. Otherwise, I think that the quality of care is still preserved, but I think the time has come when we will be planning some gradual reboot of the functioning of hospitals in the coming days and a little unblocking of those capacities. But, of course, part of the capacity will have to be set aside, and we'll have to think about it so that we simply don't face the fact that the capacity may run out. So now we're working on it, and I think it's also one of the things of the plan that we will definitely introduce in the coming days. I might yet have one last comment on an argument that is very important and concerns the possibility of ordering priority supplies. That's the thing we can order right under emergency conditions. And we did this. We are ordered by priority supply of producers of respirators in the Czech Republic, manufacturers of respirators of class FFP3, only the Ministry of Health, respectively. health service providers, so that the respirators don't get into any other hands, or maybe other segments, because we really need them in health care. And we can't do that under the Public Health Act. This can only be done under the crisis law, when we order clearly specific bodies to supply the health sector in priority. And we did. And that's what I think it is, and it's gonna be important for us to keep in the next few weeks. This means that if there was no emergency, we would not be able to order a priority supply of health care. So much only for our resort one quite significant argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u113	Now with the priority right of Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. So far, the last priority right. So again, Mrs Hana Aulická is certainly still prepared. She's been ready for 45 minutes. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u114	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been asked here twice to comment on claims for damages in connection with the crisis measures ordered by the government. I would like to say that the primary objective of the emergency measures taken is the protection of the highest values, i.e. the lives and health of the inhabitants of the Czech Republic, secondarily the whole economy and its individual segments, which, in itself, justifies the legitimacy of the measures taken in order to prevent the measures being taken from causing much greater damage to those who now claim to be affected by them. The applicable law is Law No. 240/2000 Coll., on crisis management and on the amendment of some laws, further I will call it just a crisis law, you know what I'm talking about. The public nature of the liability for damages - I look at the Member - under this law cannot be compared with the concept of this institute in private law. Section 1 of the Civil Code itself explicitly expresses the duality of private and public law by formulation of the principle that the application of private law is independent of the application of public law, so it cannot be based on the Civil Code without further reference. Therefore, the State's obligation to compensate for the damage caused in the course of public service activities does not fall within the scope of the private code, since the damage was not done in private relations. On the contrary, on the property sphere of an individual, the State has intervened in its public service activities - if we want to do so in detail here. The legislation on compensation for damage in the crisis law is designed primarily for so-called emergencies, which means the harmful effects of forces and phenomena caused by the activities of man, natural influences, accidents that endanger life, health, property or the environment and require the execution of rescue and liquidation work in which damage to property of third parties may occur. Thus, under the crisis law, the State is obliged - and we never said that we would not - to compensate for the damage caused to legal and natural persons in direct connection with the crisis measures implemented under this crisis law. So the responsibility is based on the current fulfilment of three assumptions: the first implementation of the crisis measure, the second occurrence of damage and the third causal link between the crisis measure and the occurrence of damage. And the damage must be interpreted as the damage caused by the property, or the material damage, was caused in the activities of the emergency authorities, i.e. that there had to be an active action that caused specific damage. In view of the public-law nature of the liability relationship already mentioned under the Crisis Act, in the event of a claim for compensation, the actual damage resulting from a specific intervention is paid. For example, the krizový Act does not refer to a loss of profit, as I have observed some statements in the media, because if the legislator's purpose were to pay the loss of profit in these cases, he would have to do so explicitly, as is the case in other public law, such as the veterinary law or the prison service law. So I would like to sum up, and you will also find it on the website of the Ministry of the Interior, this clear reference that damage will be paid, it will proceed to pay for the actual damage that has been proven to have been caused as a result of the adoption of an emergency measure, which will be individualised into the form of a specific intervention by the crisis authority. So at least like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u115	Now, let me see if I have any priority rights. I can't see, so I'm going to ask for a speech from Mrs Hana Aulická and Mr Leo Luzar will prepare himself. Well, Madame, you have five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I really don't want to keep up, and I was wondering if I should still perform, because I think it's more my point that some point has passed. In any case, I must respond to the current Vice-President, who spoke about the situation in Mosteck with regard to the ban on Unipetrol. I've been the deputy of the City of Most since 2002. And believe me, this bang in this company is nothing that wouldn't be done every year. And, of course, Minister Hamáček has already said here that Unipetrol is also a critical infrastructure entity within the meaning of Act No. 240/2000. And in that regard, although we always talk that he's Mosteko... I don't know, when there's trouble somewhere, it's probably always with us, and so I have to say that the information and the cooperation with both Most and, of course, with the city of Litvínov is very good. I was still checking with the mayor. They really all the steps that are published, which do not prevent anyone, to the public to read them, read the information, are both on the Unipetrol website and on the pages of the respective cities and municipalities. And really, the communication is on a high level. And I am not saying that it is something pleasant for us, because the situation throughout the Czech Republic, but also the whole world is really critical, but as a result we know again as mostečáků and all those who live there, what it all entails and that the stop actually appears in some tens, hundreds of millions, and it is not a negligible amount that this company simply has to put into it every year. And I'd just like to make a little comment. I made the call to President Fiala. So maybe it would be good to say the way those citizens are turning to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u117	Mr Leo Luzar has the floor now. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been many words. And so far, I've been thinking that when we're discussing here, we've read the crisis law, we've read the health law, we know what we've put this republic into. Yes, it is a very serious condition to declare an emergency in the entire territory of the Czech Republic. And we are aware of all the risks and responsibilities facing this legislature. In all this time of discussion from the start, I was more convinced that we wanted to evaluate this situation, that we wanted to find the culprits, that we wanted to find the responsible and that we often wanted to draw political conclusions. I'm glad it came from the ministers' mouth, that they spoke, that there would be enough time for an evaluation. Yes, there'll be plenty of time for evaluation. And believe me, it will be very, very detailed, because all such events of a natural nature are constantly being discussed and analysed in all scientific higher education institutions, studies are being done and prepared for future circumstances. This is all ahead of us. I firmly believe that the evaluation will also involve the faculty of law and others who will assess this from the consequences of law and law. But I'm going back to why we're here. We're supposed to agree to extend the emergency. We approved the emergency situation by an overwhelming majority, if not all, I did not look at the log, the Members present. We approved it under the impression of some information, under the impression of the state before us, and approved it as a solution to a certain situation. I said, has anything changed? What has changed so much that we shouldn't prolong the emergency? Is there anyone here who would say, "I think the coronavirus is in retreat, let's cancel the emergency"? I don't think so. So what have we been talking about for so long? Yes, it's important to discuss whether it should be 30 whole days. I'm an accomplice until the 30th, but there are shorter terms. This is absolutely relevant, we can have these debates, but we should be voting on it a long time ago, because the debates that were going on here were too much. And I understand there's probably a TV broadcast, but people are waiting for the result, and especially those subsequent laws that will come and help them in this difficult situation. And if there was only someone who didn't agree with the emergency situation, I'd expect them to come out here and say the reasons, but there was no one here who didn't agree to it, so I think we've been debating this for so long. And the second thing that was said here, and that's why I'm mostly performing. It was said here that thanks to the presiding colleague Okamur, through him, the medicine is heading to the Czech Republic, the cure for coronavirus. I want to tell everyone here - there is no cure for coronavirus! It's not! What different pharmaceutical companies are trying to give here are just preparations that may work. These studies are usually based on information from China that tests these things. This drug in Japan was tested on some 380, 400 patients with contradictory results. I really do not wish that at this time a Czech citizen should be considered as an experimental mouse for which untested preparations will be tested, if they happen to work. Especially when I read an output that was published from the Japanese media, which was very carefully expressed about this drug and questioned its effectiveness and effectiveness. So I would ask everyone not to have Czech citizens. There really is no cure for this disease, and hopefully it will be discovered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u119	Now I have one more priority right, he is Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal. It's the last application I have at this point. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I won't be long, I just want to point out to you about the previous performance, through you, that this House has not yet voted on the emergency situation. Not in the past, not now. We have only voted that we agree that there is a state of legislative emergency, which necessarily results from the government's declaring an emergency, which no one has disputed. So, of course, there was an opportunity to contradict it, but no one was arguing it until this moment, and I don't think anybody's even arguing that an emergency has been declared. Nor does anyone dispute that this necessarily resulted in a state of legislative emergency, in fact, we discussed those laws, for most of them there was majority support, but whether we agree with the state of legislative emergency to continue its leadership in this way, today, now, we will vote on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u121	Thank you. I do not see another application that I have for the general debate, so I prefer to look around the hall once more, I do not see anyone registered, so I end the general debate and ask if there is an interest in the final word to which only one person is entitled, if he is interested, and it is the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, are you interested in the final word? I can't see you. Yes, you're not interested. So we will now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. I'll be on my way. Yes, so we will give three minutes, as agreed, for Members to have the opportunity to come to the ballroom, so we will vote at 16.48 hours, but I am not declaring a break, but I will make a motion for a resolution: The Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period - and I will now specify this, it will be a question of how many days. And we will take an indicative vote, where we will first find out which of the three proposals has the most votes in favour, and in that order we will then vote on the proposal first. So now we will wait two more minutes, after the House has voted on the date by which the emergency situation will take place in the Czech Republic, so we will vote on the two accompanying resolutions that Mr Bendl and Mr Bartoš made here, but we will get to that. So perhaps just to fill out the time, so after we vote, we end the meeting, there will be a ten-minute pause to technically prepare the Chamber of Deputies, reprogrammed to open another meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. So that's the information we're about to get, and it won't miss. Now one more minute, and as 1648 hours jump, we will vote on the date of emergency in the Czech Republic. [[The President has been silent.]] We have 16.48 hours. I'll sign you all out, please sign up again with your voting cards, so that the vote is absolutely accurate. And so now we would vote. This will now be an indicative vote, where we will only assess the largest number of positive votes for the proposal and then vote on the resolution in that order. First of all, there's a suggestion that the government proposes to extend the emergency by 30 days. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, just for, yes. There are 48 Members for this proposal. We will now vote on another proposal, and this is the proposal tabled by Vojtěch Filip, which is that the emergency situation will be by 30 April. Initiating vote. Who's in? For this proposal to be an emergency until 30 April, there are 84 Members. [[16.50 hours]] And then we have a proposal from Marek Benda to extend the emergency by 14 days. Initiating vote. Who's in? A total of 36 Members are in favour of this proposal. So I'll do it again. For the proposal to extend the emergency situation in the Czech Republic by 30 days, there were 48 Members. For the proposal to extend the emergency situation until 30 April, 84 Members and for the proposal to extend the emergency situation by 14 days were 36 Members. So we will be the first to vote on the proposal that the emergency situation in the Czech Republic be extended until 30 April. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period to 30. April." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 8 entered 101 Members, for 90, against 5. I note that the proposal has been approved and the emergency situation in the Czech Republic will be until 30 April. I hereby conclude the 43rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. [[Dissenting voices from the O.R.]] One more resolution. Sorry. We're still going to make a resolution. I have two resolutions here. We will be the first to vote on Mr Bendl's resolution. I think I no longer have to read the resolution because we all know what we are voting on. [[Dissenting voices from the right side of the hall.]] Shall I read them? But I don't have to read them. But if there's a request, I'll read it. The Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic asks the Government for - clarification, no, publication, it is written by hand, you know - publication of complete contracts concluded with appeal to emergency conditions... [[The President is silent because he cannot read the text of the resolution. The President of the PSP Vondráček is attempting to do the same.]] Not even the President of the House can read it, so we'd like to ask the professor. [[To MP Petr Pural.]] You have experience. [[Glee in the hall. Member Petr Fiala consults the text of the resolution with the President.]] Yes, I made the right choice. [[There's a lot of fun in the hall again.]] - which was not covered by the Public Procurement Act. So we all understand what we're voting on? Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this resolution? Who opposes this resolution? In the vote order number 9 registered 102 Members, for 48, against 1. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. I now have a second resolution here. [[Objection from the O.R.]] The motion for a resolution has not been adopted. I'm sorry. We now have a second resolution here, and this is Mr Bartoš. And here I want to ask if you're suggesting that the individual points should be voted on separately or all together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u122	Come separately. [[Speaking of which, okay.]] Mr Faltýnek, through Mr President, the Minister of Health here said that he would publish the plan after Easter, so we could partly accept that point. I'd suggest it separately. I'll take it quick, we'll just wave. The resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to inform the public by 20 April 2020 of a specific government plan for managing the pandemic of coronavirus and its consequences in the Czech Republic, which will take into account the various development scenarios, at least include the following understandable information that citizens, companies and organisations can maintain." There are points (a) to (g). I would propose a vote that I would always read that point, and we could do it quickly, and we could end the meeting if you agree. I can. [[Yes.]] Anyone else logged in?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u123	There are 102 of us. Wait a minute, the deal says 102. Does anyone think we're 101? [[Voices from the O.R.]] All right, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u124	The number's fine. I'm not gonna repeat that introduction again. It's until April 20th. (a) a transparent plan for the current and long-term supply and distribution of protective equipment to health, social and other facilities, including specific information on the involvement of Czech companies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u125	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 10, 102 Members are registered, for 44, against none. The motion for a resolution has not been adopted. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u126	(b) Development of the number of infected and other defining criteria according to which the government will consider the gradual release of restrictive epidemiological measures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u127	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 11 registered 102 Members, for 47, against none. The motion for a resolution has not been adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u128	(c) Clear and predictable overall measures by which the government wants to mitigate the economic effects of this crisis, including the planned compensatory mechanisms.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u129	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 12 registered 102 Members, for 48, against none. The motion for a resolution has been rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u130	(d) The planned measures to reduce the risk or address any new wave of a pandemic in the Czech Republic, including assistance for persons affected by these measures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u131	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 13 registered 102 Members, for 47, against none. The motion for a resolution has been rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u132	The following point would be of great help to government Members: (e) Introduction of an updated legislative change plan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u133	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 14, 102 Members registered, for 46, against none. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u134	And last: (g) Specification of regimes at border crossing points with neighbouring countries with a proposal for derogations allowing necessary economic, scientific and research cooperation and cooperation in the field of education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u135	This is the last vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 15 registered by 102 Members, for 47, against 1. The motion for a resolution has been rejected. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u136	Thank you. So the plan wasn't introduced and it won't be introduced. Understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u137	We have now managed all the votes. I hereby conclude the 43rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Now I'm putting out a ten-minute break and we're gonna start a new meeting. [[The meeting ended at 16.59 a.m.]] [[16.50 hours]] And then we have a proposal from Marek Benda to extend the emergency by 14 days. Initiating vote. Who's in? A total of 36 Members are in favour of this proposal. So I'll do it again. For the proposal to extend the emergency situation in the Czech Republic by 30 days, there were 48 Members. For the proposal to extend the emergency situation until 30 April, 84 Members and for the proposal to extend the emergency situation by 14 days were 36 Members. So we will be the first to vote on the proposal that the emergency situation in the Czech Republic be extended until 30 April. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period to 30. April." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 8 entered 101 Members, for 90, against 5. I note that the proposal has been approved and the emergency situation in the Czech Republic will be until 30 April. I hereby conclude the 43rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. [[Dissenting voices from the O.R.]] One more resolution. Sorry. We're still going to make a resolution. I have two resolutions here. We will be the first to vote on Mr Bendl's resolution. I think I no longer have to read the resolution because we all know what we are voting on. [[Dissenting voices from the right side of the hall.]] Shall I read them? But I don't have to read them. But if there's a request, I'll read it. The Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic asks the Government for - clarification, no, publication, it is written by hand, you know - publication of complete contracts concluded with an appeal to an emergency - not even the President of the House will read it, so we would ask the professor. [[The President is silent because he cannot read the text of the resolution. The President of the PSP Vondráček is attempting to do the same.]] [[Members of the P. Purple.]] You have experience. [[Glee in the hall. Mr Fiala consults the text of the resolution with the President.]] Yes, I made the right choice. [[There's a lot of fun in the hall again.]] - which was not covered by the Public Procurement Act. So we all understand what we're voting on? Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this resolution? Who opposes this resolution? In the vote order number 9 registered 102 Members, for 48, against 1. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. I now have a second resolution here. [[Objection from the O.R.]] The motion for a resolution has not been adopted. I'm sorry. We now have a second resolution here, and this is Mr Bartoš. And here I want to ask if you're suggesting that the individual points should be voted on separately or all together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u138	Come separately. [[Speaking of which, okay.]] Mr Faltýnek, through Mr President, the Minister of Health said here that he would publish the plan after Easter, so we could partially accept that point. I'd suggest it separately. I'll take it quick, we'll just wave. The resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to inform the public by 20 April 2020 of a specific government plan for managing the pandemic of coronavirus and its consequences in the Czech Republic, which will take into account the various development scenarios, will contain at least the following understandable information according to which citizens, companies and organisations can maintain themselves". There are points (a) to (g). I would propose a vote that I would always read that point, and we could do it quickly, and we could end the meeting if you agree. I can. [[Yes.]] Anyone else logged in?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u139	There are 102 of us. Wait a minute, the deal says 102. Does anyone think we're 101? [[Voices from the O.R.]] All right, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u140	The number's fine. I'm not gonna repeat that introduction again. It's until April 20th. a) Transparent plan for the current and long-term supply and distribution of protective equipment to health, social and other facilities, including specific information on the involvement of Czech companies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u141	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 10, 102 Members are registered, for 44, against none. The motion for a resolution has not been adopted. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u142	(b) Development of the number of infected and other defining criteria according to which the government will consider the gradual release of restrictive epidemiological measures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u143	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 11 registered 102 Members, for 47, against none. The motion for a resolution has not been adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u144	(c) Clear and predictable overall measures by which the government wants to mitigate the economic effects of this crisis, including the planned compensatory mechanisms.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u145	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 12 registered 102 Members, for 48, against none. The motion for a resolution has been rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u146	(d) The planned measures to reduce the risk or address any new wave of a pandemic in the Czech Republic, including assistance for persons affected by these measures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u147	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 13 registered 102 Members, for 47, against none. The motion for a resolution has been rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u148	The following point would be a great help to the governments. (e) Presentation of an updated legislative change plan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u149	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 14, 102 Members registered, for 46, against none. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u150	And the last one. (g) Specification of the regimes at border crossing points with neighbouring countries with a proposal for derogations enabling necessary economic, scientific and research cooperation and cooperation in the field of education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u151	This is the last vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 15 registered by 102 Members, for 47, against 1. The motion for a resolution has been rejected. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u152	Thank you. So the plan wasn't introduced and it won't be introduced. Understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-001-001.u153	We have now managed all the votes. I hereby conclude the 43rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Now I'm putting out a ten-minute break and we're gonna start a new meeting.
