ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u1	209. The proposal by Members Barbora Kořanová, Petr Sadovskýý and others to issue a law amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Traffic on the Road and on Amendments to Certain Acts (the Road Traffic Act), as amended /Household Print 359/ - Third Reading On 18 December 2019, we started the discussion of this point at the 39th meeting. The debate has been interrupted. Mrs Barbora Kořanová and Mr Ondřej Polanský have already taken the position at the rapporteur's table. I would remind you that the motion for rejection and amendments are in the Houses of the Press 359/4, which was delivered on 27 November 2019. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House prints 359/5 and 359/6. So we will continue the interrupted debate, and I am asking who is interested in the speech. Mr Adamec was interrupted during the last speech and intends to continue. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u2	Yes, thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to explain to you again why this bill is not quite right, and some amendments, I would say, are guided by good intentions, but we all know that good intentions in many cases are not enough, and, as the people say, the road to hell is paved with good intentions. I must say, and I will just repeat it, because I spoke here sometime before Christmas, and you no longer remember that all the amendments that were added to this bill, except for the last Mrs Vildumetzová Mračková, have tried to improve the state of the complete ban on overtaking trucks. And I don't think there's a way through here. Finally, if you were watching the morning broadcast today, when traffic police were expressing themselves, and when the situation was being evaluated, how it looks with overtaking trucks on the Czech motorways, you found that ŘSD had already taken place, the police began to act, that there are sections where the ban is already today, and there are sections where the ban can be applied variablely due to climate conditions. I think it's the right understanding of the problems that there's a way, but here I'd like to appeal to the police, the traffic police to do something on the highways, too, other than to measure the fast-tracked car, because we all know the problem, and those racers in those trucks, if they're going three kilometers faster than the other, they can properly complicate the highway ride, and even the danger that comes out of it is really enormous. And I understand the intention of the petitioners, too, that they wanted to solve it this way. However, we all know that full prohibition, total prohibition usually doesn't solve anything, causes more problems, and the journey can be even more complicated and the result is much worse... Mr President, I would ask that the gentlemen in front of me stop telling me my stories.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u3	I will really ask my colleagues - they have already responded - you are disturbing the Member in his speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u4	I don't mind, Mr. Chairman, I'll start over, I've got plenty of time. And if anyone thinks I can't do it again, I can, okay, several times in a row. So where I left off - this time I'll be nice to you, but if you do it to me again, it won't be like that. So it's just to tell each other the rules of the game. So I wanted to say that I understand the intention, of course, but this cannot be done in this way. [[10.00 hours]] I'm going to share with you the experience from yesterday when I came to the House, after 10:00, and I had this feeling that all the truckers stopped for lunch, and around 11:00, they all went out on the D11. And I need to tell you what it looked like. I ran into a total of three truck huddles of about 50, 60 pieces. And what did the highway ride look like if they were driving in this right lane in a row like that, so how would they drive in full ban? Among them were a few desperate men who knocked to keep the truck from failing the brakes, and the rest rode in the left lane. And do you know how fast it is in the left lane? By the way, from Podebrad to Prague. Maybe before Podebrady. A hundred and ten tops, 'cause in the front, he was always the slowest guy in the world, and the whole motorcade was on his way. That's how it happened three times. So I think if it was on the whole highway, this would be the order of the day. I hope everyone knows that where there is a high concentration in one place, the risk of an accident is increasing significantly. And I'd say it's more than proportional. I also understood from this morning's broadcast that experts make it clear that this approach is not correct, that it is right in some sections to prohibit overtaking, to correctly give them variable brands, perhaps it would be right for those truckers who pass through in this way to be warned by their employers that this is not the way to lead, that it complicates life and then triggers such ideas here in the House. So I am in favour of all the amendments that improve this case, if we do not reject this bill, and it did not fall here that there has also been a proposal to return to second reading, so I simply recommend that these matters be fundamentally rejected. As for the above-mentioned amendment by the Governor, I would like to say here that, of course, I consider the Governor as an important person and mayor as an important person, I am talking about the Governors, because it was at the Association of the Governors, just to clarify. I take it, of course, that they are interested in solving the problem that will arise here, but I must say that this is the solution to the problem where the government has not fulfilled the promise that those 800 to 900 kilometres of first-class roads will not fall under the myth, under the selection of myths. Of course, they are rightly afraid that the trucks will travel in a different direction than they should. And, more or less, the proposal that came to the Economic Committee, the position of the Ministry of Transport was negative at first. And I think that was the right thing to do, because in my opinion, this is not the way to solve this problem. However, it was then the meeting and overnight the Ministry, Minister Kremlík, to make it clear, to change his mind and to bring a positive opinion to the Committee on Economic Affairs. And I want to say that it looks very nice, and again, as a good idea, but I don't think the result is good, and I recommend it to everyone who thinks it's right to look at the maps where those trucks can go. And getting from point A to point B in this way through this ban means going over point C, D, when the mileage of those trucks will be completely different, of course from the point of view of the environment it's completely wrong. From the point of view of the price of transport, this is also wrong. And I have experience even where it was done on a flat-rate basis, passing through the village, so it didn't work anyway, because the findings are that they're all taking risks, cops are low, and I think it needs to be resolved by local adjustments. On the other hand, I understand that the Police of the Czech Republic, in a number of cases, the transport engineers, do not hear the demands of mayors and captains or issue negative opinions on the ideas of how this could be addressed. I understand that, but it's wrong on a flat-rate basis. It will lead, I would say, to market distortion in a better case, in a worse case, it can lead - and I'm not afraid to say - until perhaps to the demise of the carriers, because they simply won't be able to deliver the goods to the place at those prices. So I'm warning you about it. It will come to us once again in the next proposal by Mr Dolínek, where I consider it a little sticky, but I am willing to discuss it within the framework of the bill, but I strongly recommend that, despite the fact that I respect the views of the captains, I simply do not approve this amendment. Let's look for other solutions. And it all came about because someone here made a promise and didn't keep it. And whoever promised it was the Minister of Transport and then the government. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally recommend rejecting this bill and possibly returning it to second reading. But I'm going to say it out here in the open, so that someone doesn't have the temptation to open it again, so I would call it parking for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u5	Thank you. Now, just for another discussion. I have two factual points here, Mr Koten, Mr Vondrák, Mr Polanský is in writing, Mr Sadovskýý is reporting to me from the seat. The application in writing takes precedence. And I was also warned by Mr Vácha that he was enrolled in the debate before the interruption, so I assume that somehow the debate will be closed. Please note that written applications have priority. Right now, Mr Koten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u6	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I would like to respond at least a little to my previous speaker through Mr President. Of course, the arguments that have fallen here are factual, I understand. On the other hand, we have some traffic regulations that, for example, provide that trucks should have a distance of at least 50 metres between them and should therefore not be linked to each other after five or ten metres. Then, of course, no cars can fit in there. The other problem is that, for example, there are three lanes in Prague or in other places, on other motorways, and there are really three lanes in all three lanes, trucking and overtaking, racing, racing in such a way that they clog the entire highway, and then it is not possible to use even the lane that is most left for faster vehicles. It is, of course, about compliance with traffic regulations, which, of course, is not happening. Given the fact that our motorways are newly interwoven with camera systems, it would be very practical to use these camera systems even in the case of the wrong overtaking of trucks to fine drivers, because they are mostly transiting trucks that are passing through the Czech Republic and are causing us such problems here. Another problem is that the truck doesn't usually look in the rear-view mirror, because he's got 30 tons when he puts the signal and in one second he's gonna turn into the left, fast lane, so whoever's driving in the left lane has to stop, otherwise he's gonna break his car. So this practice here is quite common and unfortunately sometimes it ends tragically for the driver of the passenger car because he absolutely doesn't expect the truck to get in that way. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u7	Another factual point, Mr Vondrák, then Mr Adamec. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u8	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Those trucks on the roads of the second and third classes. I am convinced that transit truck transport to twos and threes does not belong. I know there's an extra mileage, but what's happening on twos and threes, how these roads are being liquidated, how they essentially threaten local communications, is more than obvious. And I am therefore inclined to ban this transport systemically on twos and threes and, in exceptional cases, to allow it. Nay, nay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u9	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Adamec, then Mr Birke.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u10	Mr President, fellow Members, thank you for the floor. I will respond to what has fallen here, first to Mr Vondrák. You know, there's a four-ton road from Trutnov to the state border where transit trucks shouldn't go to Poland. Go check it out tonight. It's one truck after another, and everyone's got exceptions. I don't think the way of the ban and then the exceptions in this case will stand. And I'll tell you why. We all want that stuff in the store today. We all want them to deliver everything as quickly, as quickly as possible, in time, no problem, and most of the traffic is just heading towards us. Make sure they're transit trucks that go somewhere to unload, load, and move on. So this isn't the way. [[10.10 hours]] As far as those truck maneuvers and the three lanes are concerned, I think the traffic police - the three lanes we don't have so many - should be fined in these very places and in places where it is forbidden to overtake trucks today. And of course using camera systems, so it's a little bit of a problem. There's got to be a law on that, and it's always got to be about data protection and stuff, so I'm a little worried about that. However, the police should act. And I asked here last time how many truckers were fined for wrong overtaking or overtaking on sections where it's forbidden. Who measured those 50 meters of distance from those trucks sometimes and sometimes fined it? I have a clear answer to that. Never! So this just has to change. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u11	Thank you. Another factual point - Mr Birke, then Mr Špičák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u12	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I could talk about trucks, 'cause I get 6,000 a day in 24 hours. However, I ask myself one question. I'm sure all of you go abroad, to Germany, to Austria on those big highways. Have you ever seen those trucks pass in all three lanes? No one's gonna dare. He won't. And you know why? 'Cause that truck driver gets such a flash drive, but it's such a flash drive, it's just gonna hit even the forwarder. So no one's gonna dare. We all remember the beautiful overtaking in full line in Germany. The man was even convicted if I'm not mistaken. This is simply a fundamental change that awaits us in the future. We can tell each other what we want here. Well, that's one look from my layman's point of view. Of course, I understand that everyone who's performing here today feels like they understand it, etc. etc. I think there's been a deal that Mr. Adamec here said. The deal was that this law is basically dependent on parking for second reading and leave it there. Leaving him there for good. I think it's pretty clear that it's here to be heard. And it's ringing. And otherwise, of course, here's what we're talking about, as my colleague here, the governor of the North Moravian Region, or the Moravian-Silesian Region, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, the head of the Regional Association is prone to this, so I apologize to the boss. [[reaction from the diaper]] This proposal isn't about twos, it's about threes, my colleague. It's about overtaking the highways, please. Then let's not confuse it. Because twos, threes will be at the next point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u13	I'll ask you not to shout at each other, as far as possible. Thank you for keeping time. Mr Špičák, Mr Holík, then Mr Holík, is also registered with the factual remark. Mr. Špičák is not present at the moment, so his de facto is failing. Mr Holík, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u14	Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, we are weeping over the overtaking on the highway, but we are only dealing with the consequences. The reason is that we've concentrated a series of productions, we've canceled the small productions, and now we're pulling the goods back and forth, every now and then. We should think about this, because our highways are really blocked trucks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u15	Thank you. This dealt with all the factual points. Mr Polanský is entered into the debate in writing, and then Mr Vácha is prepared and I have registered an application from Mr Sadovský's seat. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u16	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Let me just briefly sum up the pirát' position. Basically, all I have to do is recite what I said here at first reading. The pirates will not support this bill for several reasons. Firstly, the proposal is not based on any long-term need, some professional initiatives. I didn't actually notice any discussions on the subject, the seminar, any articles came up before this law was passed. The whole initiative came out of the blue. Secondly, there is no analysis of the impact on the economy. The moment we take 50 percent of the permeable communication capacity in the transit country, it will certainly manifest itself, it will have consequences, whether time or financial, on the Czech economy. There's no way to deal with this. Thirdly, the explanatory memorandum contained errors, for example, did not mention the fact that the modifications in question can already be achieved by means of road signs. Just before I leave, I would like to remind and briefly quote from the Government's position on this press. I'll only read a few sentences. Firstly, although the government generally identifies itself with the declared objective of increasing the flow and safety of road traffic, the way in which the proposed amendment to the Road Traffic Act does so raises doubts about the appropriateness and effectiveness of this solution. Furthermore, the current legislation of Section 77 of the Road Traffic Act allows, by establishing local traffic arrangements on roads, to limit the driving of certain categories of road vehicles only to defined lanes, with the fact that, contrary to the general regulation with a surface impact, such a restriction can be adapted to the condition of a particular section. The restrictions on certain vehicles laid down by means of traffic markings are more understandable than the general arrangements for drivers of foreign nationality, and the driver will always know where the left lane is not to be used in a particular section of the road. In a similar vein, the entire government's position continues. I don't think it's worth dealing with anymore. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u17	Thank you. Next up, Mr Vácha is enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, somehow I fell off the list. I was logged in after my colleague Adamc last time, so I had to apply again. I'm sorry if I didn't say everything I wanted to say and had it ready last time. When we listen to the comments here, it has a number of planes - a level of expertise, a plane of legislation, and then a plane of humanity. In expert terms, we have heard the opinion of the Ministry of Transport that the law - how to put it politely - is not entirely appropriate for it to be supported, because its consequences... and that is what the Ministry officials have read in some way. The Ministry of Transport is preparing for the winter 2019/2020 to increase the number of overtaking bans on motorways from some 29 km to 145. So he's already working on the problem, so at this point, I think there's no sense left in the law. In legislative terms, the law will become even more meaningless, because we must realise that in § 36 para. 4 is already defined by the ban on overtaking trucks on motorways in case the truck does not have sufficient speed and cannot pass another vehicle unless it endangers or restricts other vehicles. It doesn't mean that when you go, you have to let your foot out of the gas. When you take your foot off the gas, or you have to tap the brake slightly, you're limited at that point. That means the moment the truck goes so fast that it can't pass the other truck without the other road users taking their foot off the gas, it's breaking the law. It's been said several times that we can make laws, we can ban all trucks from driving on highways, but if those laws and paragraphs aren't required or enforced, we can make up the laws we want here, but it won't do anything. And I think the result will be the same. We're already banned from overtaking the highway today, so we're gonna put a new paragraph in there, and the situation on the highways is gonna be exactly the same, because those truck drivers are at work, they need somewhere to transport the material. [[10.20 hours]] All of us - and now I'm getting personal - all of us or most of the drivers are bitching about how the trucker drives and overtakes and defends. And he swears what those truckers are like, I'm gonna use some decent, rude or inappropriate drivers again. But remember, the percentage of idiots among truckers is the same as the percentage among normal drivers. That means even the normal drivers in those cars sometimes drive rudely. That means, we're going to penalize a group of drivers who are at work and need to get us somewhere to deliver the goods, and, of course, there's sometimes someone who doesn't drive so great, but that's also found among normal drivers. You've got a case of speeding up and racing with those people on the freeway and all that. That means, that's the human plane. I don't know if you've ever tried it on. I'm trying to get on the freeway now that the bill in the House came up, and I'm driving a truck that's passing through, and I'm counting the seconds it takes. If it's a smaller truck, it's 30 seconds, about 30 seconds. If it's a truck, it's 60, sometimes 90 seconds. So at this point, we're going to adopt the law so that the MP who didn't like coming home 90 seconds later, maybe he met three trucks on the way, so he got home maybe five minutes later, so we're going to adopt a law that blocks our highways, and then we're going to get home later not five minutes, but half an hour later. Well, I'd be doing my best to get some sense into the hand. Those 60 seconds at a 100-mile speed or 120-mile speed are some two kilometers, so let's let the trucks pass where they need to be sometimes. Let us let the Ministry of Transport determine sections of motorways where it must not pass, or the marking, you know what markings, portable, operational markings, so as to steer the motorway as necessary in the transport situation, and not as required by several Members who need to get home early. For this reason, I will bow to the rejection of the law at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u19	Thank you. Next is Mrs Mračková, Mr Válek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam, honourable Members, I would like to take the liberty of responding in particular to Mr Ivan Adamec's previous speaker, because I have been mentioned here several times about the amendment I am proposing to the bill, but also to the draft law tabled by Mr Dolínek. I would like to bring some things to the right that have been said here, and I would also like to go back a little bit in history, especially until 2016, when it was decided that the toll system would extend to I. class roads of about 860 km. This decision was made about us without us, because at that time, it was in November 2016, it was after the regional elections and there had not yet been a setting-up meeting on individual regions, so the regions could not in any way comment on this, and immediately after the provisions of the individual councils they gave a clear signal that they disagreed with the extension of the toll system, because they are very afraid that this step will shift freight and truck transport to the roads of lower classes and, above all, to roads owned by regions, which are roads II. and III. classes. Then there was a very intensive communication with the Ministry of Transport, not only with the captains, but also the mayors, represented by both the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Association of Local Authorities. A memorandum between the Ministry of Transport, the Association of Regions and the Union of Towns and Municipalities was signed to ensure that if, in cooperation with the mayors of the Region, there was a zero myth rate on that section, it would be granted to us. With the arrival of the new Minister, Mr Kremlík, we were clearly told that unfortunately this memorandum cannot be fulfilled, especially because the tender has not yet been completed. That means she was looking for a way. This trip was sought by the creation of a working group, where representatives of the Association of Regions, the Association of Towns and Communities, the Association of Local Authorities - I know that there was also Mrs Věra Kovářová - where they met intensively and solved this problem. And the result was that this is the kind of proposal that I'm putting forward here at the moment. The truth is that it was agreed that this would be originally a parliamentary proposal. You all know that the legislative process is very complex. If you submit an amendment to the law, it takes, I dare say, several years before you reach the successful end of this law, to approve it. Therefore, in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport - and I say this here with all the responsibility and Mr Kopřiva said so on the Economic Committee that they prepared this proposal in cooperation with me, so it was also legally checked - this proposal was tabled. If he appeared in the system, ČESMAD representatives immediately responded, who met with me and really argued that if there were a complete ban on heavy cars over 12 tonnes, they would not be able to drive on roads II. and III. Class, so they may have to take the first class or the highway. I would like to emphasise again that the toll system concerns trucks over 3.5 tonnes. This traffic ban, or traffic ban, concerns trucks over 12 tonnes, which means the heaviest cars and trucks. And when Mr Adamec sounds here through the President, where they will be driving - I am convinced that truck traffic over 12 tonnes on road II. and III. classes do not belong and are very burdened by citizens of individual cities and municipalities. I was mayor of Upper Slavkov for seven years. There was an arrival in this town for road II. a class that was in the immediate vicinity of the home. And I wish you guys would go to those houses and look at them, 'cause the trucks just drove there, at an excessive speed, these houses were bursting. And I have regretted and regretted the people who live in those houses to this day. I would like to emphasise one more thing, namely that the Ministry of Transport initially gave a disagreeable opinion. By meeting with the representatives of ČESMAD and arguing why they disagreed with this proposal, I gave them a fair invitation to the meeting of the Association of Regions, which took place on 10 December, and there were also representatives of the Ministry of Transport when I clearly said: Come to the authorities and discuss this proposal! The outcome of the negotiations was absolutely clear: there was no captain who did not support this amendment. And I think that there has been a clear signal given to both the Ministry of Transport and the representatives of Česmad, as is important for the authorities, but also to the mayors, so that this heavy freight transport in the future does not travel on roads II. and III. classes. [[10.30 hours]] I would still like to explain that there are a number of exceptions. It's a restraining order. This means that if the truck goes to the company's headquarters, it goes to load, unload the cargo, or to its residence, or if it needs fueling, technical inspection, it's all the exceptions that brings that truck to be able to take that road II. and III. class go. I would also like to stress that at this meeting of the Association of Regions it was agreed that if this House or the other House press were to reach the Senate, the arguments that are raised by Česmad that the Ministry of Transport would prepare a possible amendment, which would be read in the Senate and, if so, would still be supported in the Chamber of Deputies, so if this amendment was approved and the law as a whole, its effectiveness would be only eight months after its publication. This amendment can then be fined and implemented only when, if necessary, on those roads II. and III. the classes of the individual marks - no transit traffic - will be installed. And let's face it, it's gonna be a long trial, they're gonna have to get the money for it. So I am really convinced that all the captains are convinced of this, and I dare say, even the mayors - you are now registering a number of media outputs, that just as the toll system expanded on January 1st, truck traffic really moved to lower class roads, but also to lower class roads, to lower class 1s, to doubles, to threes - and I believe that this proposal is correct. I think that these possible arguments can still be worked out in the context of the Senate amendment. And I would like to say that this amendment is really crucial for the mayors and the captains, and I would like to ask you, whether it is for this House press or for the following, to support this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u21	Good morning, honourable Members. Before we continue, I will read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, namely, Minister Marie Benešová for the whole day of the hearing for work reasons. We have three factual points ahead of us. I have a question about Mr Sadovský whether he is registered with a factual remark or duly. Properly, but you will be at the end, because of course electronic applications have priority. Now, therefore, Mr Adamec's factual remark, then Mr Birke and Mr Polanský. Mr Adamec, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u22	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I have not criticized the procedure of the captains - at all. I understand them. But there's one thing I have to say here, and it needs to be realized not only by the chieftains and the mayors, but by all of us. The Ministry of Transport is responsible for transport in the Czech Republic. That is to be said, because whatever happens after that, some problem, so the proper director will be responsible for it, in this case the Minister of Transport, and then the government as a whole. I've heard here that it's still going to be modified in the Senate. Don't be mad at me, I wouldn't mind if it went through a classic legislative process, where the Department of Transport would say: that's the right way to go, that's the way to go, that's where we see the light at the end of the tunnel. But I confess, I haven't seen this. The representatives of the Ministry were appalled by the nightly revision of the amendment. I think it's good to look at the maps. I get it. I'm from a town where there's a stretch where trucks run one by one. I know what this is about. However, I repeat, let's not play legislative here. We have no impact on the business environment at all, the impact on a number of other problems related to it, with this interesting idea at the moment, how to help it. But I say the road to hell is paved with good intentions, and this is a classic case. And I'm not saying it has to be that way, but I'm not sure it will. That's why I say responsibility is at the Ministry of Transport. And the Department of Transport was supposed to initiate a solution to this problem, it had plenty of time to do it, knowing that it would have to charge 860 or 870 km, because it was so clumsy that they set the competition on the toll system supplier. It's just reality. But at this point, let's not pretend that we're gonna save this place with some initiative. And I'm sorry, I appreciate the captains, maybe even more. Even though these people say that with their mouths, with their representatives, I just can't agree with it. It should be done by the Department of Transport with everything and especially with its responsibilities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u23	Mr. Ambassador, the time has ended for your point of order. Mr Birke's point of order now. The following are Members of Polanský, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová and Stanislav Juránek. You have the floor now, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just a little remark from Mr Vondrák's previous speaker. I, of course, meant it in that way, and I misinterpreted it from the point of view of argument and debate. I just want to say that I am a little surprised by my previous speaker Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's speech, and that is because there was a clear agreement that this press will be parked for second reading, there will be no debate on this, on the Economic Committee we have made it clear, and at this point there is a debate and we are discussing from the right, from the top, from the bottom and, of course, we are discussing whether the ban on overtaking trucks on one side and on the other side of the twos, the threes. This debate is supposed to be for the printing of 374. That's a). And b, second point. Again, I am very sorry about my previous speaker, through Mr President. You know, I'm really sorry about the twos, threes-- about us without us! You can't say that through you. [[He speaks very strongly.]] It was a coalition decision of the ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL. Don't talk about us without us! I'm already really allergic to it, because everyone's saying: socani invented it, yes it invented it, the folks invented it. No, it was a coalition decision! Please don't tell me through you that it was about us without us. Hetmani and mayors were fundamentally - not invited, but it was the responsibility of the government, or the government decided, respectively, from the point of view of Mr Adamec, who spoke here that the Ministry of Transport had responsibility. That's why it was a coalition decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, with a point of fact. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u26	Thank you for the floor. I would still like to respond with a factual remark to my previous speakers. I would like to say to Mr Ivan Adamec, through Mr President, that the Ministry of Transport has given a favourable opinion on this. At the same time, it also initiated a solution to this matter. The Department of Transport has prepared the proposal and prepared it. I've already said it here. And regarding Mr Birke, also through Mr President. I told you about us without us because we weren't in office at the time - nothing else. I wouldn't dare do anything else. And I would like to say that there was no second and third-class charging, as you just said here, but to extend the toll system by 860 kilometers. I would also like to apologize for talking about the amendment at this point. By opening it up to Mr Adamec, I took the liberty of responding, and it is clear at the moment that I will not repeat the same to the next House press, and I think that the agreement that fell on the Economic Committee to park this House's press is valid. Again, Mr Adamec has expressed his views on this amendment, which is why I have spoken to him, so I have said these things, and I will not repeat them to the next House press that Mr Dolínek is presenting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before I give the floor to Mr Juránek's further factual remark, I shall read the apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Krutáková for work reasons. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u28	Mr President, and all those who are watching this debate here. I think it is quite crucial that we discuss the amendment that my previous speakers have been talking about. And to put it right, it's not just that the Department of Transport is responsible. By law, the regions have a duty to be responsible for roads II. and III. classes. And that is precisely the misunderstanding of why regions and municipalities are actually prevented from making decisions about regions without discussing these things with them, because the consequences that are here mean that these regions cannot fully apply what they actually have in their responsibilities. I stress in my duty II. and III. classes. So I would like to draw attention again to the fact that the regions are then obliged, at every opportunity, even on the occasion of this law, to make sure that the solution to this important matter is not forgotten, because otherwise we will never see the road II. and III. the classes that follow the first class roads and on the highways were in good condition. I think that although there is an agreement that I do not know will be parked, it is very important to say that this problem needs to be addressed. And what I want to stress here is that it is full of regional law, full of the right of municipalities to respond to this issue and to try to make this problem dealt with here at our level and at the level of the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. We will continue the debate with Mr Vlastimil Válek's speech. Mr. Milan Feranec will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. So my intention was to give a few facts and calm the debate, and now I'm sure I won't do it, so I won't even try. Last year, we were debating December 2018, or November, when there was a problem with D1. Now she kind of wanted to deal with things pretty quickly. I think that was two or three transport ministers, they're taking turns at the Department of Transport really fast, so I'm totally - and I think three back, right? And Mr Kováčik, through Mr President, suggested, if I recall correctly, that I have this in my remarks that this should be addressed by the ban on overtaking trucks on D1 that he prepares a bill that would therefore prohibit trucks from overtaking them. It was argued that trucks cannot pass in Slovakia, plus they have some other speed. There was a rather intense debate on the subject. So I took it seriously and to the fair, and I did the only thing I could do, inspired by my colleagues from YES, that I somehow also hired students, not the agency, but I'm not so mobile, and with the help of a few colleagues, I downloaded footage of cameras in passenger cars driving from Brno to Prague and back, and I had those records analysed and compared to whether the trucks captured on those records violate traffic regulations on D1, existing traffic regulations. And because I was also interested in a more detailed analysis, I had an analysis of whether it concerns trucks that are more transitory - I defined them as trucks with the brand Romania, Poland, Hungary and so on, these countries, or rather trucks that carry goods around the Czech Republic, I defined them as trucks with the brand CZ. And I was trying to make some sort of order of the trucks. One by type - without the trailer, with the trailer and the ones that they carry, they are not trucks, but they are quite a large group of vehicles that carry cars, such two or three cars, mostly with the brand from Romania, to see if any existing regulations are in breach and if there are any differences between individual countries in the violation of those regulations. I've already talked about this. Let me recap. I've been collecting those records for about two months. The analysis was quite detailed. I tried it statistically, or they were trying to evaluate it statistically. Indeed, we have found that there is a violation of the existing regulations, in a relatively large percentage. We even picked up a relatively high percentage of overtaking trucks where there was a sign right on the highway banning overtaking trucks. We've usually picked up trucks driving on the freeway in all three lanes and passing in the left lane, even though there were three lanes. In the first place were trucks with a brand from Romania, on the second from Poland, etc. I told you. And I thought, because of course it was an amateur analysis that was just... a relatively high number of captured vehicles over a relatively large period of time, but compared to how many vehicles go through our highways, so obviously it's just a small sample, and I don't like it when the analyses are not sufficient, I'm used to 10% samples etc., just the tools of scientific data evaluation are all the same. I assumed that when we've been dealing with this subject for over a year, it's just as intensely devoted to both departments - the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Interior - they focus on it and try to analyze the situation on the motorways and find out where it is true, if there really is a problem, let's say the behaviour of trucks, and if so, whether trucks from some countries or in general etc. That's why I did it in good faith - I didn't do it as an oral questioning, because those oral interpelations sometimes seem very aggressive to me, and not to try to find out information, but rather to try to sort of attack, so I gave a written interview. And I had four questions: How many tickets are issued for overtaking trucks in places marked with a ban on overtaking trucks on motorways during the October-November period. It was the same period I followed. How much does the Ministry register granting truck drivers for dangerous overtaking on the highway during the period October, November. [[fines]] Furthermore, how many of the Ministry of Transport records truck offences, how many fines were imposed there for the period October, November. And the fourth question, whether the currently set-up system for the D1 offence control system is adequate, is sufficient whether there should be any change. So the answer was clear that the truck control system and the D1 compliance system were adequate, that the changes were not necessary, that they were sufficient. And in question, how many fines have been granted in those two months, when I have thus reached some results, in question how many fines have been granted for dangerous overtaking of trucks, when I have come to some results based on my amateur analysis, and in that question, how many of those trucks have passed in the places of the overtaking ban, when I have arrived at some, oddly in all three cases, the answer was very identical and the same. It can be summarized de facto into one number: zero, from the Ministry's analyses. That means, in those two months on the D1 motorway, the trucks have committed no offense under existing legislation. That makes me feel like we're dealing with something that basically both ministries don't see absolutely as a problem, because trucks don't commit misdemeanors, they follow traffic regulations. We can change the law in any way, they won't commit any misdemeanors, and basically no one's gonna fine the drivers again. So I wonder what our goal is. If our aim is to show that Parliament does not want the trucks to pass, it is a good goal for someone, and then certainly the law, if we accept it, will meet that goal. If the aim is to achieve this, and I think that the aim should be that traffic to D1 should be smooth, that traffic to D1 and other motorways should be smooth, that drivers on motorways comply with the regulations, not only truck drivers, but in general, then I see the only way that we will regularly ask the Minister of Transport, whoever it is, because there will be a rapid rotation, or the Minister of Interior, where some stability exists, so that we can be informed regularly about how they focus on compliance on motorways. If they focus as much as in the two months I've asked, that means there's no infringement, so if we accept it, we think it's right, so we have nothing to deal with, because there are no truck violations on the highways. [[10.50 hours]] If we don't accept it, we have no choice but to work hard for both ministers and ask them to focus on the flow of traffic on D1. Because our goal is not to persect drivers, our goal is not to bully a group of drivers. Our goal is what bothered us more than a year ago, when we were discussing this place so that it wouldn't happen on the highways, and we were talking about D1, there wouldn't be smooth traffic. And that should be ensured by both ministers. They should ensure that the means they have to do so are smooth on motorways, so that there are no problems when an emergency occurs, and that the police and their ministries deal with emergency situations flexibly, dynamically and intelligently. If what is the solution to this situation is a ban on overtaking trucks, please. Personally, I don't think so. And unfortunately, the data I obtained for my interpellation confirms that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u31	I thank Mr Válek. Now, Mr Feranec with a proper application. Mr. Marian Jurečka will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just being brief. The impulse or content of this bill is a ban on overtaking trucks. Several times here it was said that there was a general agreement to return this law to second reading, but I did not formally register such a proposal, so for reasons of legal certainty I make a proposal to repeat the second reading in accordance with Section 95 para. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u33	Thank you for the formally correct proposal, which I will certainly put to the vote, but only after the vote has been voted on, if the law is not to be rejected, because the proposal has also fallen. Now, then, Mr Petr Bendl, with a factual remark that preceded the duly signed-in Mr Marian Jurečka, who is ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u34	Thank you. I wanted to support my previous speaker because - please, is there anyone responsible for the government here to comment on these material that is important? We have a Deputy Prime Minister here. Is she able to discuss this with us? Is there anybody here who can communicate this traffic at this point? There's no Home Secretary here, we don't know what it's gonna be like with the Minister of Transport, we're supposed to have him on Friday, but he could be here, if we know in the media that the Minister of Transport will become Minister of Industry and Trade. I would ask the government and the Deputy Prime Minister present to find someone who is able to discuss with us competently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u35	This is, of course, a possible requirement, but it is not necessary under the Rules of Procedure. Now, Mr Marian Jurečka. So far, none of the members of the government are making themselves known, so according to the Rules of Procedure, I will give the floor to Mr Jurečka, but only after there is enough peace and a group is dissolved, which is disrupting a sufficiently dignified setting for performances. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u36	Thank you. Good morning, Mr President, colleagues, colleagues and the public on the balcony. I would also like to sum up some important observations on this amendment of the law that we are discussing. We discussed it quite tempestuously at the meeting of the Economic Committee. We really need to think about this, and it has already been said here in the debate, what is the cause and what is the result and what we really need to deal with. If for two reasons here, and one is the Took Pass and the difficult situation on the D1 motorway in the winter period, when it happened that yes, trucks and some drivers contributed to a rather difficult situation, so if the reaction to this situation was to be a general ban on overtaking trucks on motorways, then I think it's probably not quite a thoughtful thing, because if the Ministry of Transport had just acted properly, then at that time there was no narrowing at all, the situation would not have happened. And applying it across the highway sections where these problems aren't, I think the judgmental person who thinks about it thinks it's probably nonsense. I'm on a pretty regular route. Prague - Prostějov by highway or Prague - Přerov on the highway, or just before Přerov, because we still don't have that highway, and we probably won't have it for a long time, and if I'm analyzing it, yes, it turns out that in about 270 km of the road, I'm two or three times ahead of the truck crossing. I don't know which one of you has a driving licence to Group C, if you've ever driven these cars, and you know how to put yourself in the driver's situation, because if I'm the legislator, I should think about why the driver is doing it, why he's forced to overtake the situation, and if I were in his position, I'd behave differently. Yes, even in this House, we can sometimes wonder if I or any of us can always make good decisions and think right. In the same way I can look at some truck drivers, but applying something flat-rate throughout the Czech Republic is really nonsense, and in a situation where finally the Ministry of Transport, the Directorate of Roads and Motorways, in cooperation with the police, got some sense and started to use the possibilities of today's legislation, i.e. variable marking and on selected sections to apply the ban. That's okay, if such sections are, they're pegged, let it happen, but let's not do it here with this flat-rate bill that I really consider to be completely unhappy. There have also been several discussions on the subject of the second press. I'm gonna take advantage of it, and I'm gonna mention it a little bit. That's the ban on trucking on second-class and third-class roads. Let's ask ourselves again where the cause is and where the consequence is. I spent my entire childhood around 22 years in the village of Kokory. If you look at the map, it's a village on the first-class road between Přerov and Olomouc. Our house is about two and a half feet from this communication. Around 10-15,000 cars passed through my windows every day, including trucks. No pleasant situation, but if you imagine a map of the Czech Republic, and now try to project in your heads the express roads and roads of the first classes as they have the structure, and try to tell yourself if, in the design that is here in the House, the carriers, the drivers, can transport the goods that we often need in an effective way, if a flat-rate ban is applied, as proposed, to the communication of the second and third classes. I'll give you a specific example that can be verified on the map so that we can really get closer to what our decision will have for the consequences if we accept it. A piece from Prostějov is needed the village of Kralice na Hané and the period from September until about the end of the year is a period when sugar beet is driven in this locality. He's driving himself to a sugar mill in Prosenice. The shortest route is on the second class road, which leads when I looked at the map, over five municipalities including the town of Přerov to the sugar factory, and this distance is 29 km. If you apply this proposal, which is in the House, then the truck will have to drive from the village of Kralice or its cadastral territory on the Prostějov motorway, go to Olomouc and follow the first class road back to Přerov and Prosenice. It will drive 51 km and go through four municipalities. This will be the result of this decision. It will have environmental impacts and, of course, it will also have effects on increasing the cost of this commodity. No one here has counted the effects on consumers, the citizens of this country. There's no analysis at all. And we want to vote on such a fundamental matter here. So where's the cause? The reason for this is to address the issue of effective tolling systems, so that those who pass the toll during transit transport do not travel on twos and threes. That's still not here, and it's missing. It's been going on here for the fifth year. It is then a question of using ban tags so that the regions, cities, municipalities and public authorities simply cooperate to ensure that in the territories where this often happens, there are ban tags and that the section is checked so that drivers do not go there and abuse it. [[11.00 hours]] Then, of course, the solution is also in the better work of the police. I'm glad it finally sounds from New Year's, that there will be more police cars visible on highways, on expressways. I am not pleased that the police stand and measure in front of the end mark of a village or city where there is already more or less an industrial zone, and will fine the driver who has exceeded the speed of 15 kilometers per hour. Yes, he broke the law. I am much more concerned with the way the aggressiveness of drivers on motorways and express roads takes place with serious consequences, such as braking and the like. Where are the cops? Why aren't they visible? And then, of course, it is at the last point of effective construction of express roads and motorways in the Czech Republic as well as bypasses of cities and municipalities. I know it's not easy to do this at all, but the truck will just take the shortest, most efficient route if it has that route. The driver doesn't like to brake at 50 kilometers an hour in front of every village, and he's very happy to start the bike again, and if he has that bypass, he'll be very happy to ride that bypass. So please nicely, I would really like to - either reject this pasquil and this novel, or park it at the second reading. But it just doesn't really have logic to accept this flat-rate, this ban. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u37	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka. That was the last duly logged in. We now have an application from Mr Sadovský's post. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u38	Hello, Mr President, colleagues. I, as one of the proponents of this law, was simply forced by my own feeling to come out here and tell you something about it. One of the main myths that fell here is that this law was not created on the basis of any request from anyone. Before the calamity that took place in November 2018, we sent a letter to the Ministry of Transport a month in advance with my colleague Kořanová through Mr President. Furthermore, through Mr President to Mr Jurečka. Ambassador, I've got C, I've got it with the semi-trailers, and I've got it with the pro. And I didn't drive a truck like I did it for a living, but I tried it, and I know what it's about. And I would like to say that this is not about what Mr Válek - colleague Vácha - said through Mr Válek - I apologize - about 30 seconds or 60 seconds later, but it's about the fact that when you're following speed, you're driving 130 and the truck is going at 80 kilometers - when it happens to follow - and it comes out when you're 10, 15 meters behind it, it's about security. This wasn't about speed, whether you'll be home 60 seconds early or not. That was the law. And we came from the fact that this practice works in Slovakia, it is in Germany on the A5 motorway and it works, it is there without any problems. It's mostly about what's been done here, about the driver's behavior. It's nothing but how those drivers behave. On the other hand, it must be acknowledged that we are transit countries, that we are much more complicated than Slovakia. And, yes, if the laws were followed as they are written today, this law or this bill wouldn't have to come into existence at all. If even this bill is parked, or if it's rejected, if it doesn't bring up anything, at least it's started to talk about it, that the Department of Transport gave the variable marks and something's going on about it. This may have been a reason that brings me satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u39	I thank Mr Sadovský. One more factual point in the debate, Mr Válek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u40	Thank you very much, and I agree with the speaker through the President in most cases. I'm just gonna take a little point. If the truck goes 80, I go 130, we both follow the rules, and the truck goes 10, 15, 20 meters in front of me makes a trucker mouse and drives in and threatens me, so it's breaking the rules nowadays. And what fascinates me is that no truck was fined for it. This means how is this possible, absent Home Secretary and non-existent Transport Ministers?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And since I don't have an application for a debate, I'm asking if anyone else is applying from the scene. If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Mrs. Kořanová? [[No.]] Not Mrs. Kořanová. The rapporteur? [[No.]] He's also not interested in the final word. If this is not the case, we can therefore proceed to the vote, not on amendments, but - Mr rapporteur, because I have not been driving all the time on this point, I will just repeat it. We have a motion to dismiss, and then we have a motion to return to second reading. [[Rapporteur: That's right.]] And according to both amendments in the Rules of Procedure, i.e. § 95 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The application for refusal shall be put to the vote first of all in point 1 (i.e. 3 or 6). If that's the case, no one objects, I'm going to sign you all off to find out the exact presence of the vote. Please log in with your ID cards. We will decide on the proposals that we have in advance of us in the process. The number of entries has stabilized. We will decide on the motion to reject the 38 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 38, 170, 85, 62. The motion was not accepted. So we're going to vote on a motion to reclaim this law... [[A Member of the Austrians is asking for a check on the vote in progress.]] Check, please. In that case, I will wait and the individual clubs will check whether the electronic record of the result of the vote corresponds to the intention of individual legislators. Mr. Rakušan. I ask the House for peace. Mr. Ambassador, just a moment. I ask the individual Members to calm down so that we can be clear about the minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u42	Mr Vice-President, I apologize. I'm late for high school. I wanted to vote yes. I'm sorry, one more time. I voted in favour, and I'm late for high school. That is why I question the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-003-209.u43	Okay. We shall vote on whether the House agrees to repeat the vote in favour of non-compliance between the electronic record of the result of the vote and the vote of the Member. Thus, we will vote against the electronic record in the vote number 39, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of accepting the objection against the registration. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting No. 39, 182 present, for 179, against no one. Objection received. So we're going to vote again on the motion to reject the motion, in the vote number 40 that I started, and... well, I'm sorry, vote number 40 I declare confusing. [[Objection from the O.R. and request for check-out.]] I've checked you all out, and I'm asking for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I'll wait until the number of entries is stabilized. We will decide on the motion for rejection in vote number 41, which I have begun and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 41, from 183, for 91 Members, against 73. The motion was not accepted. If there is no interest in controlling the vote, we will decide on the proposal to repeat the second reading, in voting number 42, which I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 42, 183, for 176, versus 2. The motion was accepted. I note that Mrs Barbora Kořanová's proposal, Mr Petr Sadovskýý and others, to issue a law amending Act No. 361/2000 Sb., on road traffic, returned to second reading. That concludes the discussion of paragraph 209. Thank you to the draftsman's representative, thank you to the rapporteur. [[11.10 hours]] We'll continue with item 210, that's another third reading that's ready for discussion. It's about
