ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 64th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. In order to record our participation, as you are used to, I have just checked you out and I will ask you to sign up with your ID cards and thus present yourself, or tell me who votes with the replacement card. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, at the request of 51 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on 29 October of this year. At the outset, we would like to identify the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Dolínek and Mr Jaroslav Holík. I'm asking if anyone else has a proposal for the verifiers? If that's not the case... I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby one more time. I'm gonna ask everyone to present themselves, so we can get a proper courtesy. I'm just asking everyone who's in the O.R. if... With the replacement card number 10, Mr Gazdík votes. I'm asking if everyone's being represented in the O.R. because I know there are still debates going on. Well, we're acquitted. And I'm opening the vote, and I'm asking who's up for the proposed verifier. Who's against it? Voting number one, 77 Members are currently on the list, for 72, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that we have designated the 64th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies Members, Petr Dolínek and Mr Jaroslav Holík. As you may have assumed, I note that those who are not present or in writing excused are deemed to be excused under the agreement of Members' Club Chairs, as we are sitting in a reduced number. We will now proceed to the 64th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. Mr. Miroslav Kalousek asked me at the outset for his brief presentation, so if he can hear me. [[There's noise in the room.]] Chairman Kalousek? Mr President, you asked me for your brief introduction. I'd be happy to oblige, please, you have the floor. And quiet in the hall, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Chamber of Deputies, let me apologize not only to the public, but also to the entire House for the misstep I made this Tuesday in the afternoon. Shortly, I visited the closed part of the restaurant behind the window and also consumed there. I realize that the legislature must have the greatest respect for the law itself, and if he commits any offense, it is worse than when a citizen without public authority does it, if for nothing else, because public persons have to set an example. So I also want to apologize for the fact that, in the first reaction, I was demeaning my offense and making inappropriate jokes about it. I've made a mistake in my judgment that this is a small matter. It's not small. Although I could not endanger anyone with my physical contact, I could jeopardize respect for the principle that the rules must apply to everyone equally without exception. I would therefore like to stress that I will not hide behind the parliamentary immunity. If the administrative authority reaches a decision that I deserve a fine, I will pay it without protest. Regardless of this administrative process, I shall immediately withdraw from my own resources the upper limit of the relevant fine to ensure a material fight against the epidemic. I sincerely regret my actions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. Now here I have two applications with priority rights at the moment. Before the beginning of the meeting, the President Bartoš made a written request, and Mr Kupka will speak for the ODS with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-000-000.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I would then also be performing, and I will be speaking in a general debate. However, I would like to ask and perhaps point out that, at a time when the country is in quotation marks in a partial lockdown, when we are dealing with meeting people and limiting these meetings, when we are dealing at the level of the Chamber of Deputies, but also with the government, the important things that are related to both the economic and health situation of the Czech Republic, it seems to me to be rather unusual for an extraordinary meeting to be convened at this time for such a comprehensive press, such as the recodification of the building law. The press was preparing themselves in various circles and still undertwo years. We today, in a limited number of people, in this state, are to discuss this law at first reading at an emergency meeting. I was commenting on this when this meeting was already convened, that I do not think this is appropriate. Unfortunately, another thing has happened, according to the information that is in the media, is the petitioner, Minister Klára Dostálová, who represents the Ministry, which is responsible for the construction law and the amendment if not prepared, so at least its preparation covered it, is indisposed and cannot perform here. I think it is an extremely inappropriate procedure to make the most fundamental and practically one big law - because we do not have pension reform, we do not have social reform, we do not have housing available, well, it is probably the flagship of the government of Andrej Babiš, a new building law - to be presented here at first reading by the Deputy Minister, probably Mr Havlíček, so that we cannot ask questions in the general debate by the petitioner, Minister Klára Dostálová, and deal with this in this limited number. At this point, I would like to propose that we take this into account in the case of the approval of the meeting and, perhaps, the votes of the conveners simply call off this meeting, not approve of the programme by your votes, and indeed wait for the moment when the country will not be in lockdown, when there will be sufficient time and sufficient number of Members who have relevant comments. Eight thousand comments came to that law, which were dealt only formally, the ministers withdrew them. That there should be Members who have something to say about this. So that maybe there are mayors of self-government involved, who aren't here to balance. And, above all, that such a large and fundamental law, which will affect the construction process in the Czech Republic, should be presented by the Minister, who is responsible for his proposal, because the Ministry of Regional Development is the Ministry to answer questions from Members here and to communicate with the House in democratic proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. And now, Mr. Kupka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-000-000.u6	I'm joining this challenge. On behalf of the Civic Democrats Club, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Government's legislative council, when dealing with this proposal, has also stated that there has been a violation of the Government's legislative rules, and that is another government signal for giving due attention to the debate. The fact that first reading will not be the main promoter is simply an insurmountable handicap in terms of allowing all Members to reach detailed answers to questions relating to this complex standard. The government does not admit that this is one of the most important reforms, one of the most serious interventions in the performance of public administration in the Czech Republic, but in fact means the transfer of thousands of officials from the current municipal authorities and regional authorities to the new mega construction office. It means that although the government has made it clear through the Prime Minister's mouth that one single official must not go under the Civil Service Act, so it will happen not in units, but it will happen in thousands. This is another fundamental problem, why we believe that this standard deserves a serious discussion, a dignified discussion in the presence of the petitioner. We wish the Minister really to recover as quickly and as quickly as possible and to allow the whole standard to pass through the standard process, and we consider it important that this substantive objection is assessed by the Chamber of Deputies, because it is simply not appropriate to discuss such serious public intervention in this weakening. At the same time, we say that we will join in giving the standard the best form. We are preparing a comprehensive amendment. We want to improve the conditions for construction in the Czech Republic, but the way the Czech government wants to do it is not happy, we do not consider it democratic in the end, taking into account the opinions of individual MPs and self-governments in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. It's just that we may not have the same information. I hear the secretary's only quarantined, she's healthy. Or is it positive? Okay. It's on the record. We will now vote on the whole 64th meeting proposal. With priority rights, Mr. President Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-000-000.u8	Thank you. Mr President, ministers of the two who are here, colleagues, I must say that when I heard of an emergency meeting being held... [[A reminder from the diaper.]] Thank you. It surprised me that an extraordinary meeting on this point is being convened, because I did not register at the previous meetings that the coalition majority would have an abnormal effort to put this point on the agenda so that this point could be discussed as standard during the extraordinary meetings. However, the government coalition has decided so, but I must say that I am surprised by several moments in this press. When I spoke to the Minister in the winter months, when the inter-ministerial commentary procedure ended and it was evident that the number of comments from the mandatory inter-ministerial comment points was enormous, huge, almost record-breaking, so I said it was a good habit that the ministries were doing that when such problematic printing got into the inter-ministerial area and there was such a number of comments, the Ministry settled it and sent it to the inter-ministerial commentary procedure once again so that all the commentaries knew how the press was settled. Which comments were incorporated, which partially, which rejected, because it always changes the nature and settings of the law, and therefore gives the logic that it will be sent to the commentary procedure for a second time. That would really make sense to me if the Ministry were to come here and say, we want a really good standard, we want a law that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-000-000.u9	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-000-000.u10	Thank you. A law that is really meant to serve the citizens of this country, the investors and the state authorities. But unfortunately, that didn't happen. We are getting a law here in the House, which we are very likely to expect here at second reading will be enormous pressure on a large number of amendments. Even the secretary herself admits that he does not really want to correct the law until the second reading. I don't really think that's happy. And when I asked the Minister, and I miss that in the explanatory report itself, to say where the biggest mistakes are, why the construction proceedings in the Czech Republic take so long, and we all want the construction proceedings to accelerate, where the most fundamental moments are, why it takes so long. Because we can see that there are large differences in the length of the construction process, even between individual regions. And we didn't get an answer to that. Because maybe it was enough for someone to think about where the most critical points for extending the building process were, and he said, we'll have a system set up here that the documentation will come electronically, at one point all the comment points, all the positions that give opinions, binding opinions, and there will be inexhaustible times to deal with it, and it will be clear what the longest time can be for any interruption of the building procedure. And those authorities will have clearly bounded boundaries. If this were to happen, I guarantee that the length of the construction process in the Czech Republic would be given clear limits, clear rules. The fact that some transport structures are pointed out that they have an extremely long time to prepare the territorial and construction proceedings is also necessary to look into other laws. And in those other laws, the House has already made two adjustments in this term. It's already happened twice in Act 416. I miss this a lot to make the state progress within a system. Yes, we have a problem, we're all pissed off, but we're gonna make a description of the problem where the most critical places are, and we're gonna focus on those places. And it is not that we are going to make a major revolution, from which even those who have worked in that system for 20, 30 years are not convinced that this will lead to an improvement in the construction process in the Czech Republic and that all the important moments that we need to defend in the construction process will be well defended, and that is not only the interest of the investor, the builder. I would very much like the Minister here to take these comments into account, which I think are completely rational. And I must say that I also miss the fact that the Minister is not here, unfortunately, because at first reading, when the most general debate is being held about why this standard is coming, how it is set up, and not having the competent minister who would have been there all along, I think there is a big government error. And I would like this government coalition to take into account that this is not a standard procedure. I don't remember in seven years that any other law would make this happen in this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. At this point, no one claims priority rights anymore, and we will therefore proceed to the vote on the 64th meeting, as presented in writing. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposed agenda. Who's against it? Voting number two, 96 Members signed up for 61, against 29, the proposal was adopted. The agenda has been approved. I still owe apologies to the ministers. Minister Marie Benešová apologizes for work reasons, Jan Blatný for work reasons, Jana Maláčová for work reasons, Lubomír Metnar for work reasons, Tomáš Petříček for work reasons and Alena Schillerová for work reasons. In addition, there was an apology from Minister Miroslav Toman, who also apologizes for work reasons. We will now proceed according to the approved agenda of the meeting. Opening point number
