ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u1	27. Government bill amending Act No. 44/1988 Coll., on the Protection and Use of Mineral Riches (the Mining Act), as amended, and other related laws /house print 531/ - first reading I ask, honourable Members, for peace so that we can attend to the negotiations of the Mining Act. Thank you. Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to reiterate the amendment to the Mining Act and follow up on what I have already presented here. I would like to recapitulate some of the key elements from our point of view of a very important law. What, then, is the subject of this amendment again? First of all, it is the removal of the so-called five-year fixation of raising payments from the extracted minerals. To put it simply, for a period of five years, the rate has always been the same, and now, in fact, this five-year fixation is canceled and it will always be possible to adjust that amount adequately after a given year, taking into account, of course, the possibilities of the law. For another, it is purely technical, but it is also important to monitor this better, and this is a supplement in the content of mining technical records, in connection with the new method of calculating the remuneration. In other words, it is calculated from the amount of mineral extracted. At this point, the Ministry of Industry and Trade needs information on sales for the minerals earned and mining costs. To this end, the State will obtain relevant information on the acquired minerals market and will therefore be able to calculate it. Another important point is the adjustment of so-called reserves for remediation and reclamation. The principle is that the miners currently allocate resources required to bail out and reclamation on two accounts, in the bailout account and in the current account, or not on a tied account, but on an account with which they can work. The essence is now that it is an interest, and that is why it is regulated in the proposal that the funds that are on the current accounts, or only the accounting perspective, be transferred to the special tied account, until 30 June 2022, with the fact that other organisations - and the others are not so-called large and essential ones, we consider the large ones to be coal mining, oil extraction and gas extraction - so that they have it until 30 June 2025; these are usually medium-sized companies of a construction nature, I mean the mining of building materials and so on. Another requirement is the publication of information on the protection of bearing areas and the last one is the strengthening of the importance of the binding nature of the Czech Republic's raw materials policy. Part two is the amendment to the Act on the Management of Ministries and other central bodies, which unites terminology, which is once again a technical issue. And in the third part of the law, there's still an amendment to the Reserve Act. There's an amendment to the Digital Registers Act in the fourth. It's more like technical stuff. Ladies and gentlemen, I look forward to a possible constructive debate and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u3	Yes, thank you to the Deputy Prime Minister. And now the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Leo Luzar, will take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u4	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this press is opening a Upper Law which you may not see as important in this view of previous debates on the Labour Code and other matters. However, I would like to draw attention to some of the things that the Minister has already opened. I consider this law to be a pretty important law, especially for all regions affected by coal mining, which is now very negatively perceived in Europe, as we all know, and of course we must not forget that it also concerns other sectors of the Czech industry and can have far-reaching and extensive consequences concerning mining. Finally, I will join the classic debate so that I do not abuse the word of the rapporteur. I just want to give a brief heads-up here and fill in what the Minister said. He spoke of reserves for remediation and reclamation in the settlement of mining damages. It's an area that's going to be very important. Especially we in the Moravian-Silesian region will monitor the development of this situation, because we are very affected by these mining losses. Of course, I must not forget the Ústí Region, which has similar problems. He was talking about a completely different system - I stress - of a completely different system of calculation of payments, which hacks into the business ties between the miners and the buyers of these raw materials, which I consider to be the second quite serious point with which this law will have to deal. Another thing is that it shifts responsibility for setting these prices to the Czech Mining Authority. This office, as a separate supervisor, or, say, a watchdog for the operation of mining or mining matters, is given enormous powers and powers, as all data from all those who benefit today will gather to it. This is also, of course, about the publication of information on protected bearing areas. Here, I just want to make a subtle point that I will mention this in my performance, and it concerns the future, for example, a drill, which is high-speed rail corridors that we don't all have to convince ourselves about as necessary. On the other hand, we must realise that even these large investment projects require a certain interplay of what mineral raw materials the Czech Republic has. I will speak more and more closely in my speech. Another and quite serious issue is the memorandum. Today, we can already evaluate the functionality or malfunction of the memorandum that we adopted in the House during the last parliamentary term, and it concerns the freezing of raw material prices. It is one of the areas that will certainly be for discussion, and we will talk about it. In conclusion, I would like to point out that this issue is not at all simple. It concerns quite large areas of both industry and, of course, mining. And I expect quite a strong debate on this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Dominik Feri is the first to be joined. Mr. Zahradník will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, honourable Members of the Government, I am surprised to speak to the upper law, but although I am a Prague Member, I come from the north of Bohemia and the issue of adjustment of payments from acquired minerals is very close to me, and it is not outside the material, because it is changing, as the rapporteur has mentioned through the President, the methodology of the calculation. But this does not change the political task that remains the same since the 2016 amendment. We fought against this in the last parliamentary term. Mr Kučera of the TOP 09 suggested here the correction of at least the adjustment, so that everything, or the majority, of the 67 percent, would not go to the state budget, but something remained in the region. It wasn't accepted, they said it would be compensated by an increase in the remuneration, okay. And now we're coming up with it again. [[12.00 hours]] We think, and we will present, my esteemed colleague Langšádlová, in the Economic Committee, an amendment, and I am calling it here, which is taking the same step. That means, why would 67% of the brown coal payment being mined surfacely go to the state budget? And why do we think that's wrong? The initial argument should be why the money from the regions, from Ústecký, Karlovy Vary region, should flow into the state budget, actually into the demonized Prague. But I won't use that argument. I think it's wrong because the money doesn't have such a bow. And on the basis of subsidiarity, I think that they should actually be used if not by the municipalities, when the coefficient has already changed from 75 per cent to 33, at least to the regions, so that the money can be used effectively within the region. So I think the debate should be wider. It should not only be limited to the technical procedure for calculating the remuneration and determining its scope, but the debate should also be open on whether it is exclusive payment or whether it is shared and to what extent. At the same time, I think that if there is an extraordinary consensus in this Chamber of Deputies on trying to cope with climate change and trying to get the right resources, then I think that the determination of compensation for other minerals should also be part of the debate. And a debate about where they should be headed. If the target public budget shouldn't be, for example, the State Environmental Fund's budget instead of the state budget, where, as I said, the money almost doesn't have a bow. So I am calling on our amendment, and I would like the Minister to say his or her political position on this, if the Ministry has dealt with this, whether it has entered into negotiations with the regions, for example. Because I think this is something that every member of the Ústí Region from the Karlovy Vary Region should be interested in because it is money that goes from the region to the central budget. And I think they should definitely go back to that region. We can look for a compromise. It doesn't have to be that the state budget just out of the blue, I know there's a lot of pressure on the ministers to keep the budget of their individual budget chapters not so low, but we can make a deal, we can find a compromise so that those regions can at least make some of that payment work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u7	I will now ask for Mr Jan Zahradník's speech. Have a nice noon. And Mrs Květa Matušovská will prepare herself. So, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u8	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already spoken to the Upper Law during its discussion during the last parliamentary term, and I can mention another title in this parliamentary term to justify it. As a member of the coal commission, I am in the hands of analysis and materials which should lead to the final decision of this commission on the coal energy downturn at some point in time that would be real. Of course, I study the materials carefully, I deal with it, I know that the decline in coal power is a matter of the future for decades. Sure, 2040, 2050, we'll make that decision. I have always such a basic idea that any capacity that will be dampened, which will be closed in the field of coal power, must have some spare capacity to represent it, because it is not possible to leave our Republic without energy security, without energy self-sufficiency and our citizens without reliable energy supply. I have recorded a statement by the Czech Government and, therefore, a statement by Minister Havlíček in the media, last time in the middle of last year on Novinky, that they intend to increase the remuneration for the earned mineral. Of course, this is not a matter in that law, it is a matter of government regulation, of sub-laws. But what's in there is the abolition of a five-year moratorium on the value of the compensation for the mineral gain. That's clearly what the law says. The replacement, and I would like to remind you first of all, was last increased in 2016, to double the original value. Then a five-year moratorium was established. I also defended that reason at the time so that entrepreneurs in the mining industry would have some certainty, some certainty with which they could predict future state behaviour for their activities. I don't know what other industrial sector would be subject to such a significant contribution. Personally, I think raising the charges for earned minerals is quite dangerous. Not because it should somehow mean a breach of the stability of the mining sector, but especially because it may have significant effects on citizens, consumers, especially energy and heat consumers. If we decide and increase the remuneration for the minerals earned, this will bring about a certain increase in raw material prices and, as a result, an increase in electricity prices and, in particular, heat prices. At the same time, electricity prices and heat prices are already rising, especially because prices on the world markets are rising, and also, and we have mentioned this here several times in our House, the prices of emission allowances are rising significantly. Over the last years, we've seen an increase from EUR 5 per ticket up to 25. We are now worried about the price of more than EUR 30 per permit. This is a thing which, of course, interferes with the economy of establishments that produce energy that produces heat. In particular, heat plants are faced with the consequences of this phenomenon. At the same time, hot plants, especially large but also medium, are exclusively involved as central heat sources in the heat supply of about one and a half million households. Which is essentially three or four million inhabitants. And in those cities that are connected to the heating plants, there's just no other heat source for heating apartments in the housing estates. There's nothing to replace coal as a source of energy for these heat plants. The idea of switching to gas would mean a great dependence on Russia. Not everyone can afford what we now have in our South Bohemia region, when the heat converter from the Temelín Nuclear Power Plant is being built into the Budějovice Heat Room. This would mean a significant increase in the prices of brown coal, i.e. a significant increase in problems for the thermal sector, which would have a negative impact on citizens of the Czech Republic. I think it is necessary if the government considers increasing the payments from the acquired minerals and abolishing the five-year moratorium on increasing it, which will significantly affect certain legal certainty of operators of the entire coal energy sector in order to analyse the possible effects of this measure on citizens of the Czech Republic. In my opinion, the government should do this, it should inform us of this analysis before we decide on this law by voting on it. [[12.10 hours]] Then I will support the law at first reading. Of course I know that the RIA evaluation was not carried out there. As far as the Legislative Council of the Government is concerned, that is where the President said. I think that analysis of the effects on our economy would certainly be desirable for our citizens. That is why I am calling on the government to prepare this analysis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u9	So now I call on Mrs Květa Matušovská to speak and Mr Petr Bendl will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u10	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, let me, too, give my opinion on the upper law in question. The complete novelty introduced by the amendment to the Mining Act is the obligation of companies to create reserves for technical destruction of buildings which have not yet been dealt with. It's already been mentioned here today. This is part of the remediation of the area after the end of the mining. So much very brief mention of the new deadline in the explanatory memorandum. The consequences of this new provision may be in tens or hundreds of millions of crowns. And when we add the obligation to transfer reserves to tied accounts and announced increases in payments from acquired minerals, we get to the amounts that can literally be liquidated for smaller companies. I therefore assume that the petitioner has clearly stated what positives and negatives this newly introduced adjustment can have on the mining sector. I will wait for the meeting of the Economic Committee not to hold back now, but I already think it would be worth the amendment, which would define precisely and more clearly this provision, so that there are no doubts and, above all, other disproportionate financial burdens in the mining sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u11	So I will now ask Mr Petr Bendl to speak and prepare Mrs Hana Aulická. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, allow me to say a few words, too, because I have often been confronted with the creation of the upper law in the past, as I come from a region where mining activities have been a key place for people to work for very long years, and I, as former Mayor of Kladno, have often had to deal with the upper law. That's why I read it, and when I looked at it, I feel like there are some questions that need to be answered, because I don't understand why the upper law is going in that direction. She was part of the speaker here, because it's all right, and it's all right, in the past - we've had it in the system since 1991, then in 2006, we've been amending, I guess, this law. Our legislation allowed them to make reserves for those tasks that would result from the bailout obligation after the mining work was destroyed, gradually every year. [[companies]] As far as I understand it, you're pushing companies with this bill that they need to make their reserves much faster, that is. economically you will burden much more. Then all of a sudden, the upper law divides the mining companies, depending on what they're mining. I don't understand why we're actually doing this, we're dividing mining companies into those that benefit from energy and non-energy minerals, and they all have different deadlines for transferring from those analytical accounts to tied accounts. [[The ones that benefit]] I wonder why we're doing this. Because the upper law, that is a standard, which - my previous speakers have already said - should be predictable, it should not change in any way during the mining activity, because there are other activities involved, which my previous speakers have actually mentioned here, and so did my colleague Zahradník, and these are the heating plants mentioned. Because we have so-called on our desks. Water law. And when I overheard the heat plants that might have a problem in their consequences and the change in the upper law, we often need enough surface water for our activities, given that the surface water is running low, I think we are going to have a much more dramatic period from the point of view of drought than the period we have now had, the last five years, but it will be worse, and it may be much worse, in the water law, the government is proposing to abolish the system of administrative management granting permits to draw surface water for surface water consumers, and you are suggesting that it will be decided by the water authority almost from day to day that it will be possible to limit water supplies, i.e. to reduce the operation of the surface water-bound industry, and you, as a government, agree. This could be the next shot. And if we were to treat this principle fairly irresponsiblely, then the 1.5 million people who are linked not only to heat plants, but also to other plants, power plants, etc., who need not only legislative provision for their activities in the form of the upper law, but also others, we would get them in trouble. I, too, am not going to make a motion at this point to reject this law, but I think there are so many serious questions that we need to answer that we will see how you will eventually stand up to this, what the answers will be. I myself think that we should approach this conservatively, we should not start dividing societies according to what they are profiting, but we should look also reasonably, of course, with the need to create reserves for future remediation and destruction of buildings and that territory, but to look at it wisely, so that it is economically stable, and not that we implement some kind of chaos in this field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u13	So I will now ask for a speech from Mrs Hana Aulická and Mr Jiří Kohoutek will prepare himself. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak to the amendment to the Upper Law. The Minister probably does not remember the discussions during the last parliamentary term around this issue and, at all, what has been happening, the breaking of limits. Probably most or some of you know that I'm from the Ústí Region, from Most, and I was a great fighter to break the limits of both companies, i.e. also on North Energy, because not only do we have one of the best coals in Europe, but I believe that even as the current energy policy is, the Czech Republic does not go the best way. And the fact that we are facing a big problem here after 2030, not only in the form of an electricity price increase, because we will hardly be able to deal with this with our processes, that is not yet said in the Czech Republic, because perhaps for the Ministry of Industry and the Prime Minister himself it is far away, but for the citizens of the Czech Republic it is certainly a topic that we should be discussing today. That is why I will also allow myself to read my opinion here, which, I see, is probably not interested in many colleagues, I will hope that he will definitely be interested in the Minister. [[half-empty benches]] [[12.20 hours]] I believe that the Ministry of Industry, with its proposal, although I understand that there are other things that reflect on it, is not quite the right way, and I, as the great patriot of Mosteck and the Ústí Region, simply do not agree with this proposal. And I must say that the Ústí Region, as some of our local politicians often repeat, in general the Czech Republic is very much indebted backwards, and in this way I do not think that this return will take place in any way. The opposite is more true. And the problems that we have accumulated there, as well as the fact that there was actually coal mining, that there were other impacts, and then, of course, the dampening of mining, the social aspects and the departure of people from the region, and the targeted moving of those troubled citizens from Prague and the Central Bohemia Region, too, are simply not helping us in this way. Each year mining companies spend hundreds of millions of crowns to support the regions in which they operate, if not more. They financially support cities and municipalities, education and sport, social projects and help solve many problems. I can only confirm this from that aspect that I have been a representative of the City of Most since 2002. And the financial support for these mining companies is once a really big help especially in helping education, social or health care, because we may be able to support the hospice in Most to a large extent. Social projects help solve many other problems that the communities or people in their region are worried about. If you ask any mayor whose community has signed a cooperation agreement with any mining company, a vast majority, yes, maybe besides Litvínov, that's true, they'll tell you that without this support they'll be hard to breathe. Their often very modest budgets, with the support of companies living in regions and regions, often count on them. The owners or employees of companies often live in these municipalities, they are members of the councils and try to make municipalities better through this money in the form of new children's playgrounds, greenery, houses for seniors and in general and so on. They just care about where they live, where their families and children live, and what's going on around them. Which I think is perfectly logical and natural. I am afraid that the upper law in the form as it is now proposed, and I am thinking above all of the pressure on companies to deposit money in a tied account with which they cannot (?) have, logically triggers secondary pressure on savings in companies and logically starts saving even where it is not an obligation, but volunteering. The state will not escape tax liability, you have to do it, or we have to do it, but in the area of annual voluntary contributions to those areas you can relieve yourself easily and quickly. That's just what you (?) as the owner or boss of the company. I have no doubt that companies will start saving primarily in this area. That is why I have to mention here that I, too, or I do not know whether this has been mentioned by some colleagues, would quite consider filing an amendment that would at least relieve the regions of this aspect, and I will propose moving the deadline for transferring financial reserves from analytical to tied accounts to 2030 so that companies have sufficient time to create these reserves and do not have to limit the support needed to the regions in their own survival. I consider my proposal to be a compromise, even given that the result of the comment procedure was 2025 and the Ministry of Industry and Trade sent a proposal to the Government for 2035. I also mention this because this year, and we do not have a colleague Vildumetzová here, it was announced that Sokolovská uhelná in the Karlovy Vary Region will be releasing about 700 people. Seven hundred people, as we have seen in the Ústí Region, are roughly a third, I think more a quarter, as we have the experience, the whole impact and the whole region. This means that we are talking about roughly a quarter of the overall impacts, such as families, but the downstream companies that do sokolov's coal supply services, which, of course, will have an economic, social impact for the region. That means people will leave, properties and their values will fall, purchasing power in this area will go down rapidly. And so, as you may know the Karlovy Vary region, we will really get to the stage where only the areas where they have a spa will be rich. And more or less the rest of the Karlovy Vary region will really be at a social level and will be very problematic in this area and in this region to do something. Sokolovská carbonná announced it last year. And I believe that, as I have so far had information from this region, neither the state, or perhaps the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but maybe in cooperation with the Ministry of Industry and Trade, it does not solve anything or is more or less not involved in helping in this situation. We've been through this in the Ústí Region. The total crisis has yet to come into this, and as you can see and perceive the Ústí Region, although of course there has been a rise and help, but the Ústí Region has really almost, in addition to the area of Litoměřicka, got into a situation where people don't want to live in this region anymore. Our children are going to study elsewhere, to other regions, they stay there, they don't want to go back. And the region is really falling. And unfortunately, the crucial help that we see, for example, in other legislation that is being prepared here has not yet come. And you, with this proposal, are more or less giving another kick to these regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u15	And now I will ask for Mr Jiří Kohoutek's speech and Mr Jiří Kobza will be prepared. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear fellow ministers, I would like to make a general statement on the issue of raw materials policy and raise the following question or rather doubt. I believe that the incorporation of the concept of raw materials policy into the Mining Act is a fundamental change in the nature of this document, which becomes a binding legal standard. The proposed provision can be seen as an empowering provision from a legislative power for executive powers, which, however, has no limits. Such a form of empowering provision is contrary to the constitutional order and case law of the Constitutional Court, where the authorisation for the issue of legislation must be so precise and specific as to its scope, content and purpose that the Ministry or other administrative body is not able to depart from the legal limits and thus adjust its own political will, for example, against Parliament. The addition of state raw materials policy is conceived here as an amendment to the legislation in the field of upper and geological law. The material is, inter alia, contrary to EU constitutional order and law. Such essential comments were made from a number of entities. I would therefore like to know the answer from the petitioner or, as part of the discussion on the Economic Committee, whether these outlined potential problems cannot lead to a major conflict with European law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u17	I will now ask for Mr Jiří Kobza's speech and Mr Petr Dolínek will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear fellow ministers, Madam Secretary, hello. I, some of you know, studied geology at the Faculty of Science, which is why the question of the Upper Law affects me quite personally. For myself, I am very pleased that the upper law opens up, that we have the opportunity to discuss it, because the settings that have been in the past and which are responsible for, for example, the extortion of the Ostrava-Carvin area and the huge profits of Bakala and similar pirates. In the same way, we can remember the battle that was about the gold bearing in the Kašperské Hory. The battle that the then mayor of Kašperské Horů František Stíbal, who, at a price, could be said, managed to protect the bearing. We remember a battle that was about a gold bearing on the Mokra, where the bare fact that besides gold there are also about 10 tons of arsenic in the Mokra, which could poison Vltava until Mělník and beyond in any crash. And, of course, we know that our bearings of particularly strategic raw materials are a target of interest to multinational mining companies, and I have to say that they are far from acting in glove and with regard to the host country. [[12.30 hours]] We can recall the famous gold mining accident in Romania in Baia Mare, where the barrier of the reaction pond, which poisoned the cyanides of Tis, about 200 kilometers long, actually killed out all the living that was there. I am glad that we can raise these questions, and I believe that this law will be discussed, we will have the opportunity to invite experts and we will be able to make a law that will protect our interests, our environment and, of course, also the essential thing, and these are strategic raw materials. I am of the opinion that strategic raw materials are to remain in the state's property. I am of the opinion that the state should decide whether and when it will benefit and how it will deal with them further. There is a way that works abroad. I met it myself, when strategic raw materials benefit from the state through contractors, when actually a competitive contract for mining works, which they can then follow up with the processing activities, is at a fixed price, which of course has a certain advantage for both parties. The extracted raw material remains fully in the state's property and the contractor has a fixed price guarantee. It's been tried, it's working, we're not discovering any America. We can remind ourselves of the kejkle that took place around Czech lithium bearings and reserves, when only from an economic point of view we were informed alternately about how the price of lithium is falling, which no one really wants, and then we learn that on the basis of lithium are constantly developing new and new batteries, which have a much higher capacity, we are pushed into electromobility, we are pushed into the transition to storage energy from shock sources, renewable sources, just into high capacity batteries etc. So the question of dealing with raw materials that we consider to be strategic, which can be redefined in the upper law is very important, because it is not just gold or lithium, it is also uranium and other rare elements. I am very glad that we have the opportunity to open it, that we have the opportunity to discuss it. I'd just like to ask my colleagues to approach this very responsibly, because we're not talking about whether there's going to be any actual profit right now from raising or reducing the share of the extracted rock or from the price of the extracted rock that some foreign miner is going to extract, but we're talking about what country we're going to leave to our children and what resources we're going to leave to our children. We know that in the field of gold we have seven balance sheets, which fortunately managed to defend and which are left in the country for future generations. It is a question that is really very important. We must not allow our mineral wealth to be ploughed, wasted, somehow mined by foreign pirates, and all we have here is a dusty hole in the ground and a ruined environment. I dare call for caution. We will prepare an amendment to this effect. I think the responsibility we have, although many of us may not say much about the upper activities and geological factors of life in this country, but the responsibility we have to the future and to our children is great. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u19	I will now ask Mr Petr Dolínek to speak and prepare Mr Jan Bauer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u20	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President of the Government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I'm pre-advising that I'm going to encourage the law to go further. I am aware that the government has had to stand up to this somehow and no solution will be ideal, but I think that the government must perceive that this is not just a topic of the government coalition versus the opposition, but it really is a more real topic and it affects regions more and how much we should regulate this field or how much action should be taken in this field. This is how I speak and speak to this, knowing that we are actually on the Economic Committee, respectively. The subcommittee, I believe, discussed the wording of the law for energy a few months ago, and a number of questions have already been raised there, which is why I say that it is probably good for these questions to continue to be raised here, so that the Ministry can prepare for the debate, so that we do not be surprised at the committee meeting itself, which should already be working, where we should reach some end. I think it would be good to look at some central European context and look at how it is handled in Germany, for example. At this point, according to German law, if something has not changed in the last few months, the mining companies will only pay payments from mining for newly opened mines or quarrys. Thus, this fiscal burden is not reflected in the related production or products. The remuneration is set only for newly opened mines or quarrys where new mining permits have been obtained in the old Länder since 1982 and in the new Länder since 1990. Since then, however, no quarrys have been logically opened, because, like the Czech Republic and the surrounding countries - except Poland, which you are discussing at the government level - are, fortunately, not trying to open new quarrys, but to use existing ones. This leads to, of course, the possibility that it does not actually take place in order for the proceeds to be burdened, and therefore there is an opening to the question of whether competitiveness will be on this issue or whether we want to voluntarily back out of all areas. The next question is, and we need to see what potential impact this could have on the construction industry and on other things, but that is precisely the thing that needs to be squashed in some more detailed forum. In Germany, as regards the remuneration for new mines or quarrys, the remuneration is 10 per cent of the average market price of the minerals obtained and the determination of the collection and adjustment of the amount of the payments is in the hands of the Landesbanks, which means that in our country it would be regions. They can also transfer them to other organs. At the same time, the Land may grant an exemption from the obligation to pay remuneration from the period area and harvested minerals, may provide for a deviating amount or other graduation for specific minerals or areas and may set specific minerals or areas and for them a different percentage or basis for measuring the amount of payments. It's a little consistent with what my colleague said. Some regions, thanks to historical developments, are more dependent on this, some less dependent on it, which is why I perceive that the regions would like to speak in part, but I also see that the government wants to set some clear rules. I'd like us to go into an open discussion, not a closed discussion and just make sure. The question is also smaller quarrys and mines and with them tied fixed money, because not every mine respectively. The quarry works 365 days a year, and the rollover on fixed money may not be completely effective for every smaller entrepreneur. I understand it at the big mines, but even there is the question of whether someone has fixed money, which is in the sum of billions, if they couldn't make that money over time if they really had to lie somewhere. I say, as colleagues say, these are questions for the next few months. I firmly believe that we will both explain with the government how it expects it to look, and that, if necessary, the Ministry will be able to supply some economic models that would tell us what is going to happen to these companies, and what will happen to this area of the economy. Thank you for your attention, and I firmly believe that the debate will be really open.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u21	I will now ask for Mr Jan Bauer's speech and Mr Jiří Dolejš will be the last to prepare. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u22	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm just going to fluently follow up on my previous speaker. When I was reading the amendment proposal, when we were discussing this material intention, this point, on the subcommittee on energy, and it's been dropped a few times today, so the so-called word retroactivity has just been written into my mind. I am really experiencing a bit of deja vu because I remember the amendment to the law on religious restitution, where this proposal also simply failed on the basis of so-called retroactivity. We all know how it turned out recently. And I confess that, at least by suspecting the so-called retroactivity, I am under the proposed obligation to transfer undrawn funds to bailouts and reclamations registered in the analytic accounts into a tied account, up to a certain date. Some colleagues have already talked about this, so I don't want to be the one that's going to happen all the time. But let me just remind you that already in 2006, when the obligation to deposit funds for bailouts and reclamations was introduced for the next time, an identical possibility was checked at that time, evidently with a rational conclusion that did not admit, I repeat, it did not allow the possibility of a retroactive provision, when it newly introduced the obligation to deposit into a tied account, but the current obligation to register in an analytic account merely ended and did not allow the proposed transformation, however rational it may seem. So I am very pleased that this idea of a possible conflict or problem of retroactivity has also been mentioned here by a fellow rapporteur of this House press on his doubts about retroactivity. I am very pleased and hope that we will get to know the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee on this possible conflict, which should undoubtedly be addressed. I would also like to make an update that, if the constitutionally-legal committee finds that this may be in some kind of conflict, I am prepared to make an amendment that will release the questionable provisions from this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u23	I will now be the last to request a speech from Mr Jiří Dolejš. I don't have another application yet. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u24	Thank you for the floor. I listened carefully to the performances of my colleagues and was inspired by one reaction. Don't worry, it's not in my mind I didn't want to, I had to stall on Friday. However, I believe that mining is one of the neuralgic points of the Czech economy, not only Czech, recently. Just remember when we listen to debates and climate and attacks on the position of coal in our energy mix, what is happening in this area, what pressures can even come from the European Union, and that we need to clarify some broader contexts in this respect. And I would like to draw attention to those broader contexts with the reference to the message that we are sending to our specialists in the Economic Committee, who will discuss it in more detail so that we can make a meaningful finale. I will repeat that perhaps not only for us, it is a significant moment for us as the Czech Republic to protect our raw material wealth and that the effects of this raw material wealth also flow for the development of our economy. This is easy to say, but, of course, it is much more complicated to implement, if we realize that, especially in the field of mining, this is an area that is ploughed up by specific private companies, which obviously have business plans, have longer-term investment considerations. There they work with some numbers on return, they have to repay loans, and so on and so on. And that brings us to the fact that this neuralgic point, or if you want a gordic knot, we have to untangle so that we don't pour out a bathtub with a child. This coal fight is very often marked by good intentions, but not always by understanding how things can take place in the real economy. An example that is not directly related to mining, but therefore already to the energy use of coal, is that our otherwise undoubtedly beloved activists nailed to the door of Počerad, which was to be sold to the private sector, as bats, and called for this capacity to be closed day by day without realizing that replacing this capacity is not obvious from day to day and that we need to have some space to do so. I recall that before the elections in 2017, I took the liberty of making such a very rough estimate that in the energy mix we will still have coal to a relatively significant extent by 2040 and that therefore the fight against coal and emissions must also be led adequately by the Czech economic conditions. As far as mining companies are concerned, by saying they've got it stale, the extraction of raw materials, of course, I'm getting to a very sensitive question, and that's the matter of the mining fees. So far, we've worked with the fact that changing the charges isn't very happy too often, because companies have to move in a stable business environment, and within their long-term business plans, they simply have to calculate these things, so that we don't mess with them, I'd say, irrationally. The idea now emerges that the five-year moratorium - the current moratorium is now running in that period of 2017-2020, or it is ending and so it should be over from 2022 - that this moratorium should not be expected in the future in the sense that the change should be more open after all. That is, of course, possible. Let us hope that the current moratorium will run out, which is also assumed by the bill. And then we should clarify the algorithm that's going to change this area, because, yes, let's face it, it's only private companies operating here in this area, not because of our blue eyes, but to generate profits, and of course, that profit sometimes ends somewhere completely different from the Czech Republic. And the truth was my colleague Aulická, when she called for us not only to have employment care - first of all, because these regions in economically weaker times are affected by the most unemployment - but to be able to reinvest in the region from the money we are talking about right now, so that we - a la longue, not from year to year, cannot do so, but a la longue - have an economic infrastructure that would enable the region to develop more comprehensively and, let's say, ensure the future of these regions. Of course, it's already a question of setting up the mode we're talking about here. In a similar way, like the moratorium and the termination of the moratorium, we can also talk about the area of bailout costs, which means that if we set it up here, I'd say too brutally, it could be pretty much tangled with the corporate structure. So that we should not put ourselves at risk of adverse economic impacts, but also legal. Because let's say that questioning the business environment could be, when I think about the consequences, even the subject of arbitration disputes, so in this area, I just see the need to do a lot of work. And I'm kind of wondering why the work wasn't done before, so that the arguments, for example, for us, first and foremost, what we don't sit on the Economic Committee, were at least the subject of the relevant report, the impact study, which, of course, is mandatory in every such law. And if it's not presented there, then of course it leads to unnecessary questions, and so it prolongs the process. We've been talking about these things for years and years and years. I think this gordic knot needs to be untangled. I think that we could actually have a lot more money out of this coal, but we need to find a material penetration that will not lack economic rationality and will not only think about environmental interests, but also the interests of the regions, and even anticipate what we will do at other points - we are only talking about mining here - to address, and that is, therefore, updating our state energy concept, energy mix and all the impacts that may be rushing us with the fact that the European Union's policy has become somewhat greener, and that climateism should still be far more relevant and less active. Thank you for your attention, and I believe that we will be pleased to get to know the outputs that colleagues will be able to take in the Committee on Economics, because this will enable us to vote positively on this too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u25	That was the last application for a general debate. Now I want to ask - is the Minister still interested in the general debate or the final word? Even in the general debate. So, please, you have the floor. And the rapporteur? In general. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all the comments that have been made. Everything revolves in principle around two areas. The others are probably negotiable, it's some kind of compromise discussion. I'd take the liberty of setting them straight. One is called. a moratorium, and so that's the charges, if they're going to change after a year, or if it's going to be after five years, or another regime, and the second one that's very important, it's obviously the bailout and analytical accounts. This please - let us start with the analytical and remedial accounts - has nothing to do with the regions or the fight for coal or against coal. The coal commission decides to some extent whether or not we will have coal here, but even more so at the time the price of emission allowances and to some extent the economic pressure that will arise due to increasing costs. We will not significantly influence that. I think the government is going very rationally in terms of the decline in coal mining. We're not just going the absolutely green way, we're trying to find compromises, we're trying to be reasonable. And certainly the fact that in the finals, the Czech Republic will receive 15 billion out of the specific money of the European Union. CZK, so is the government, because we negotiated these formalities there, and these are the resources that will naturally go to the regions, so let's say to strengthen the social area and strengthen the economic area as a result of the coal downturn. Sanitation and analytical accounts, please nicely, do not affect whether the regions are doing better or less. I will repeat once again what this is about and especially who it concerns. Sanitation and analytical accounts do not concern all miners in terms of what we propose. This concerns two coal miners, and it concerns about three oil and gas miners. In fact, all the other miners with this proposal are out of it. So that's one thing. And what's this about? The point is, actually, the coal miners in particular, because they're all about being, these two big miners, not CEZ in this case, so they actually have to give you the money on account analytically and they have money on account tied. But it is really about money - and that is the role of the state, and this is how we have to look at it - which will be bailed out and re-cultivated in the future. That means, it's money that has a purpose, and that in the past it's been misplaced into an analytical account, and only in time it's become a bailout account, where it has to be given since a certain time, is just some transition phase where we actually say: these are no longer in the quotation marks of resources for operational use, these are the resources that are supposed to serve just in time for those bailouts and reclamations. And the fact that it shifts from the originally proposed 2025 to the year 2022, is nothing more than that it wants to control the money in quotation marks if there are economic problems in those companies, which, unfortunately, has occurred in the past with some, for whatever reason. So nobody's taking the money, but we're saying, if it's supposed to be bailout money and reclamation money, let it lie there, but the money can't just be used, because if something happens, then the region doesn't have the money to bail out and reclamation money. So, on the contrary, it's in the region's favour. As to the question, why this applies only to some and why it does not apply to some. Because after a long discussion with the miners' representatives, we have come to the conclusion that it will be the smaller and medium-sized ones who will have it in the original proposal, that's 2025, so that it will be those small building stone miners etc. did not touch and touch only those in quotation marks who, if they got into these economic problems, could cause a big problem for the region, which is just coal miners and they are only two coal miners. Again, CEZ has no problem with the tied accounts, and there's no problem with that. And now, about the charges that aren't. They've already risen, so it's not like the regions actually have little resources from it. If you remember, a few years ago, approximately half a billion crowns were collected, today it's one billion crowns, which means it's double. However, the fee is still deeply below where there is a maximum limit that should be at 10 percent of the price, we are moving somewhere around 1-2 percent. And, yes, to discuss it is, if 67 percent is to go into the budget and the rest is to go into the regions, that's probably some, I guess, fair discussion and maybe you can move it there. I totally understand that. But there was a gentleman's agreement between the miners and the government that it was on the table a few years ago that the moratorium would actually be lifted. The agreement was such - let this five-year moratorium, in other words let us reach the original prices until the end of 2021, and then let us set it up so that it can change year after year. And so we keep what we have agreed, what we have promised, that is, we have made it possible, despite the great resistance of environmental organisations, to reach the original moratorium on the relatively very low prices, and then from 2022 it will be an option, which does not mean that it will occur, to set up the mining fees or those mining fees with regard to how the market price is developing. In other words, if it grows, you can lift it, if it doesn't grow, it won't pick up. We think that's fair enough. Thank you for the discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u27	So far, the rapporteur, Mr Leo Luzar, will be the last to speak in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u28	Thank you for the floor. As I have already announced, I will be involved in the general debate so that I do not abuse the right of the rapporteur. There's been a lot of information and a lot of questions, but I'm gonna try to get some answers in my speech, if any. open up completely different areas that haven't been mentioned here. There was talk of a moratorium. Historically, the moratorium here was created within a certain predictability of price developments, especially raw materials that are not listed on world markets and global raw material exchanges, so that the miners would have some prediction of how they could move. I think there's already been a consensus here, and the Minister here has already spoken in his speech that the moratorium should run. I'm glad he's not even considering extending the moratorium. I think that would probably be stupid, and from this point of view, I am pleased that the Minister has already spoken as part of the argument that the moratorium will run out in due course and will not attempt to shorten this. For this I am already in the initial discussion of the first draft of the Mining Act - because actually a modified government proposal coming from the government - pointed out that, of course, international arbitration would threaten us here. [[This is]] Imagine a company that has a price for five years, and now the government's decision will say, not for five, but it will only be three years. So, of course, most miners have the opportunity to drive us as the Czech Republic to arbitration, and I believe that they would probably do that, because it is quite large money. I have to make it clear that there's a problem with lithium here. We have been convinced of this in the last parliamentary term, what a delicate political issue it is, and we were one of those who raised the subject and tried to familiarise the professional public with lithium's problems. There is also a memorandum that talks about the fact that there is some cooperation between mining and Australian mining in the Czech Republic. Here, let us say that although we tried and warned the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the original agreement, which was in cooperation between Australia and the Czech Republic, referred to in this memorandum, is from 1991 and does not correspond to the current situation of contractual relations between partners, but is directly unilateral against attracting foreign investors to the Czech Republic, is absolutely disadvantageous for the Czech Republic. Yet, in my opinion, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not taken advantage of the opportunity it had, and I do not know what it is waiting for, because the Treaty between the European Union and Australia is being concluded and at least the abolition of the old things should be literally stated there. In other words, if the Member States of the European Union have any of these trade agreements concluded historically with Australia, it should be declared that they will cease to be valid at least by trying to conclude and ratify the agreement between the European Union and Australia. Because, of course, it's also about lithium in the upper law, because it's about what form and how much it's going to benefit, where it's going to be processed, and what's going to happen next with the raw material. This stays kind of open. We did not think too much about this under the impression of the current things, but this should also appear in the upper law, and it should be one of the possible basic things, that is, the state's raw materials policy, the declaration of basic strategic raw materials. [[13.00 hours]] And here I'm gonna take another turn. We perceive strategic raw materials like the basic ones, the richest ones. Maybe uranium could be found there, but I'm warning you that there's a strategic raw material that needs sand, it needs gravel. Let's remember what gravel reserves are like in the Czech Republic. This is where I go back to what I was talking about. We're thinking of building high-speed railroads. You can imagine, many probably yes, what a huge consumption of large fractions of gravel to build a railway shower is, and we have huge problems in the Czech Republic already today to capture increased demand for this commodity within the world markets. And we have huge legislative problems to allow the opening of new gravel deposits. We have huge legislative problems to address this issue of raw materials. And the problem with the Upper Law is also about that, and it concerns small miners. These are not large multinational groups, of course they are represented here, but most of the quarrys are not in the dimension that would concern this area, transnational, but they are really about local Czech entrepreneurs. That's why I'm a little surprised at what the Minister said that other miners like to be satisfied are out. I have signals that, on the contrary, the very little miners, the gravel workers in short, have a huge problem with this and point to the historical problems they have with it, and they have a huge problem what they will do next. And here is for us, Members, politicians who are interested in expanding construction and, for example, those high-speed railroads that I took as an example to make it work so that the construction material can eventually be available, because then you will know that the delay in construction will be five years only because there is not enough raw material. And that can happen. So this, too, is an area that we should not forget in the debate. And since even in that law, the proposal talks about protected bearing areas, so we should also be able to approach these bearing areas and allow possible State intervention, in the state interest to return to these bearing areas. There was no possibility of redemption or expropriation of these land for the state at all. And it's a huge problem, because we have a protected bearing area, we even have a mineman, but it doesn't weigh there, and it's going to suddenly need certain fractions of the gravel and it won't have it. I ask - we should probably also go back to this and express that the state should have leverage, legal leverage in legislation, not only to take over land for line construction, but also to extract these raw materials. And it's quite a cardinal question for those little miners. There's talk of coal. Yes, coal, a historical raw material that is unfortunately experiencing tragic consequences of the euphoria of renewable sources in Europe today, but yet it is a strategic raw material that depends on tens, hundreds, thousands of employees and the economy of the Czech Republic. I am so glad that the Prime Minister is already talking about OKD's perception of the 2020/2023 perspective, and perhaps even in the coming years. I am very pleased to say to my region that employment in mining will not end in 2020, 2022, 2025, as was said at first, but this limit has shifted because, of course, the Moravian-Silesian region has been through the restructuring problem for the most part, but this would be another blow, another intervention in the major problems that this region has. So on the one hand, we are dealing with aid to the affected regions by restructuring, Karlovarský, Moravian-Silesian, Ústecký Region, from the other hand, by simply abolishing the basic industry that is there, and throwing thousands of employees into the free labour market. I can't imagine how the Moravian-Silesian Region could handle it, or Ustecký with his high unemployment, which is not being addressed. I am glad that these questions will be dealt with under the Mining Act. But the future of mining is also part of the Mining Act. One of the big topics is the environment. It is a big problem and in my proposal as rapporteur, I will be happy to have the Committee of the Environment to comment on this. Because I want to prevent these debates from getting stuck here and blocking the fact that this law is actually negative to the environment. I do not think so, but yet I perceive that these reservations are particularly relevant to the method of extraction. When we talk about lithium, the most effective way of extracting lithium right now is by using lyating, using dangerous substances. A colleague here has spoken of gold, where he has the same problem in mining, namely promised, efficient, ecological extraction or exhaustion from lithium rock, is so far in technical drawings perhaps in universities and in laboratory conditions in the order of tens, hundreds of kilograms, but not in the thousands of tons that would eventually be mined. So I see this environmental problem quite seriously. And I will also pick up the water that has been mentioned here, because in mining, water is often also used and it is important to count on water as a strategic raw material. For us as KSČM it is most important to maintain social reconciliation. Maintaining the standard of living of citizens and not lowering it. Why am I not talking about raising? Maybe we're doing a little bit. The government is trying, and I thank her for that. He adds where he can. But what happens when electric power gets expensive? We are witnessing Germany's pressure to put an end to inefficient, environmentally inappropriate energy and heat sources, but this automatically produces an increase in energy prices in world markets. We are linked to world markets and I do not know how the government will explain to Czech citizens that it will have to raise electricity and heat prices by twenty, thirty, forty percent just because we are simply part of the European Union and we are forced to do this, and I consider this to be quite a serious matter. Therefore, the strategic importance of the coal we have and the resources we have should not remain under the ecology and should not remain a little out of the field of view of this law. There's talk of RIA here. Unfortunately, the draft law does not contain RIA, which would analyse the impact on the Czech industry. Nevertheless, I think that the law is needed, because the situation that is currently underway in the mining industry is constantly being subjected to quite hard tests on the functionality and sustainability of this mining. But can we imagine if the surface mines on Mosteck for a year would cease to exist? Can we imagine what would happen in that area and how we would work? That's why I think it's important to talk about this, too. One of the important things, and I am glad that the Minister here has talked about this is the problem of financing and financing bailouts. Here I would like to point out to the gentleman that there is the Czech Mining Authority. As an independent body, it is he who collects, collects and will certainly be very interesting for colleagues in the Economic Committee to perceive the tables of the fulfilment of those accounts which these companies are already required to fulfil under previous laws, and the expected fulfilment is also not entirely without errors and is not completely without any problems. Now we want to introduce a completely different system. We have not yet settled the historical system that was here, and the Czech Mining Authority is trying, but it encounters certain problems, especially the personnel character, because the Czech Mining Authority as well as other authorities of the state administration is under a lot of pressure of savings and we are now giving it further and more powers. This is an area that is mentioned quite a lot in the upper law, but it is not addressed. I have had the opportunity to speak with the President of the Czech Mining Authority, and these are problems which, of course, every state central office perceives. If we get a new job, a new job, and we don't have personnel equipment to do it, we're facing a problem as to how we're gonna do it. I want to draw attention to one more thing that appeared with the miners. We will hand over to the state, let us understand the Czech Mining Authority, strategically important business data. We will regularly pass on classified items that competition is able to exploit very easily - and how will the Czech Mining Authority secure this data? I am turning completely away and I can speak here to my fellow pirát, who have the security and information technology in their wound, if anybody has ever dealt with this at all. What form will these data be secured to prevent abuse? [[13.10 hours]] I think we can all imagine what would happen if some major mining man who has an agreement with his customer and sells him some raw materials for a certain amount, and this data from a particular mineman got into the free market and others started asking for similar prices or similar approaches. The competition here is quite serious, and in this area, which, once again, is serious under a huge blowout from Europe, and we will also have to deal with it. [[There is a constant noise in the courtroom, a group of Members has been debating in front of the speaker's counter for a long time.]] I don't want to stretch -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u29	Mr Member, I will interrupt you, and perhaps I will ask the House for peace, or some colleagues, to move their negotiations to the front room or to settle in the benches, if necessary. It's not exactly dignified. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u30	There was a mention of concern about a possibility of retroactivity. And as I read the bill proposal, I saw a certain problem there, which I pointed out in advance to the Economic Committee at the meeting, that I perceived it, and if we fail to achieve this retroactivity, it was a suspicion that we might as well become in lawsuits about applying some retroactivity as quite dangerous. The Czech Republic is a country that knows historically the problems caused by lawsuits and disputes. I don't want to mention Diag Human and all that stuff right now. But we know our own, and we know how hard it is to succeed in arbitration and how much it costs resources and how much strength to avoid it. Therefore, I will personally recommend and propose in my speech the rapporteur, not in the general debate, to deal with this also constitutionally-legal committee, because I think it is important to know that the law we are preparing cannot be challenged by international institutions and cannot be used as a kind of ram against the Czech Republic. I would like to conclude here that the upper law, although it does not seem so important for many of the other fields of human activity, affects very many areas of the Czech industry and generally affects a large number of citizens. I am pleased that the colleagues who spoke before me, and thank you for the rich discussion, have mostly drawn attention to the impact on ordinary citizens of the Czech Republic in their speeches, and we as Members should not take this as a technical amendment or an amendment to the law. This will be one of the important things that can determine the direction of the Czech industry forward for decades to come, will affect energy, will affect prices in the Czech Republic, and we should also approach this in all seriousness. Thank you for allowing me to speak like this without interrupting me too much, thank you for paying attention to this, and in my final words, I will put the rapporteur's proposals to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u31	Thank you. Before we move forward, Mr Polanský changes his original apology and is already present at 13:00. I now have here with a factual point in Mr Kobza's debate. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond to the previous speaker with the fact that it is not entirely true that mining companies in our country behave in a way that is kosher and in accordance with the interests of the Czech Republic. To leave my favourite ores to the region of nerud, mentioned by Mr Luzar, I would recommend that I visit him, for example, the Court of Kings and see what the source of cement for the European Union looks like and how the environment looks in this area. I think that's definitely an important point. There's one more thing I'd like to say. Here, of course, there is interspersing of individual disciplines, and we should not specialize in thinking about the upper law only on top activities as such, because, for example, a constitutional law is being prepared to protect water and, in turn, mining activities here can play a very important role in water supply and water reservoirs, because the excavated areas allow this water storage. Or, if larger areas of water are created, there is increased waste, microclimate is created and, of course, it has an impact on the way of life in the immediate vicinity. As an example, I can mention the impact of the nearby cascade near Mikulov, where among other things it originated in Bohemia, in the Czech Republic the best area for Walnut Rieslins, which is in itself worth considering. So I think that we should look for solutions to intersect with other fields - agriculture, the environment, industry, the manufacturing industry - and find the most appropriate formula for cooperation there. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u33	Thank you. At this point, I have no further applications for the debate. Mr. Benda reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u34	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I listen, in particular I listen with tension when my colleagues try to propose that the constitutionally-legal committee also discuss this. But I have to say that one sentence surprised me a bit from the Minister when he said: we agreed with all of them, and everyone will be allowed a period until 2025 to transfer something, technical reserves to de facto reserves or something like that, and only two coal mining companies and three companies from the gravel mining sector or what they will be the ones to whom we will give it to by 2022. If there is such a thing, and I really don't know it, then I think it's a provision that potentially has a discriminatory character if it's said to everyone by 2025, and suddenly for just some of the selected periods, it's reduced by three years. So I just wanted to point out that I was rather surprised by this sentence of the Minister and that it would be necessary, whether you order it to the constitutionally-legal committee or not, to look at this part too, whether it is really something that is selectively discriminatory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u35	I, too, thank you, and again at this point, Madam - no. Okay, so at this point, I don't have any more applications for the debate. If no one else is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. The rapporteur is interested, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u36	Thank you, Mr President. In my final words, I would like to propose certain proposals to the honourable House for voting. I would like to, and thank you for the discussion that it is not spreading too much, because I have now remembered that perhaps we could also order the petition committee, which was quite seriously concerned with the problems of gravel mining, and those citizens' petitions were here. But I do not want to make this issue any less difficult, on the contrary, I would very much like us to focus on the fundamental material of this law, and as I have already announced in my word, I would very much like you to also order the constitutional-legal committee to discuss this material from the issues that have been raised here and which I also perceive, but also the environment, because I think that there will be quite interesting arguments and things that we should be able to deal with in advance. So I would like you to assign this press to the constitutionally-legal committee and to the environmental committee outside the guarantee committee. Thank you. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would also like to propose that if the Minister does not express his opposition, but it is at that time that we extend the 20-day period so that we can allow those committees, too, to deal with this in normal time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u37	Thank you. I marked it. Those were the final words. I believe that the motion for a return or rejection has not been made, so we will now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organising Committee has proposed a proposal to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? [[There's a gong.]] If that's not the case, I've already called my colleagues to the O.R. Initiating vote. I ask: who is for the commandment to the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 95: 152 Members and Members have been registered, for 127, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that this proposal has been directed to the Economic Committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order another committee, however, two proposals have already been made, so the environment and the constitutionally-legal committee. Mr Feri is reporting with some other proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u38	Thank you for the floor. I think that, in view of the adjustment of the remuneration for the loss earned, this should also go to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. This was also the case in the last parliamentary term when the remuneration changed. The regional representatives can come, it would make sense, and we can specifically focus on this part of the Upper Law. So the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u39	Thank you. Mr Kobza and then Mr Ferjenčík with other proposals. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Given that the upper activity has cross-border and international scope, I recommend that the Committee on European Affairs and the Foreign Committee be given an assessment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u41	So two committees, yes. And now, Mr Ferjenčík with a proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u42	It won't be education. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I propose the Committee on Budgets, because logically this law also concerns the revenue of the Treasury.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-006-027.u43	Yes, thank you. I therefore have six proposals for other committees. And if no one else has any more, we will proceed to the vote. I called you before the previous vote, so there's no need to do it again. There's a checkout request. I'll check you out. Please log in with your cards again. We will vote on the proposals in the order that I have noted them. So first, when the number of entries is settled, we will be voting on the Environmental Committee's commandments. Looks like the number's steady, I'm taking the vote. I'm asking who's on behalf of the Environment Committee's commandments. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 96, 132 Members and Members are registered, for 120, against no one. This proposal was therefore adopted. There is also a motion for a commandment to the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Initiating vote. I ask who is for the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 97, 133 Members and Members are registered, for 91, against 8. The proposal was also accepted. Furthermore, there is a proposal for the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Initiating vote. I ask who is for the commandment of this committee. Who's against it? In the vote number 98, 133 Members and Members are registered, for 68, against 1. The motion was accepted. Another motion was made on the commandment of the Committee on European Affairs. Initiating vote. I ask who is for the commandment of this committee. Who's against it? The number 99 vote includes 133 Members and Members, for 46, versus 38. This proposal has not been adopted. Another motion was made on the commandment of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Initiating vote number 100 and asking who is in favour of the commandment to this committee. Who is against the commandment of the Foreign Committee? Thank you. In the vote number 100, 133 Members and Members are registered, for 37, against 53. The motion was not accepted. And the last thing I heard was a motion for a commandment to the Committee on Budgets. I am opening the vote number 101 and I am asking who is for the commandment to the Committee on Budgets. Who's against it? In the vote number 101, 133 Members and Members are registered, for 46, against 21. This proposal has not been adopted. I note that we have ordered this proposal as other committees of the Committee on the Environment, the Constitutional and Legal Committee and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. And then there was a proposal to extend the deadline for committee discussions by 20 days. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of extending the time limit. It's vote number 102. Who's against extending the deadline? Thank you. In the vote number 102, 133 Members and Members are registered, for 124, against 1. This proposal was adopted. I'm saying we've extended the deadline. That was the last thing in this first reading. I thank you and thank the rapporteur and the plaintiff and move forward. So the next point is this point right over here.
