ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill of construction / House print 1008/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made on the basis of the mandate of Minister Karel Havlíček, whom I am asking to take the floor. I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you today, on behalf of Minister Klára Dostálová, Minister for Regional Development, the Government's proposal for a new construction law. A law that affects every citizen of our country. As we all know, the government has decided to increase investment in an extreme way, not only this year, but also in the next few years. And it is not only an investment of a public nature, it is also an investment of a private nature, be it families, natural persons, or legal entities, tradesmen. It is one of the tools and one of the ways in which we are able to deal with the current crisis caused by the spread of the CMID pandemic. Investment without construction, investment without construction, investment without construction costs and with new buildings is almost unthinkable. From this point of view, the construction law is not only a common law, which we can discuss at any time, but it is definitely also a matter of the covid crisis, because the sooner we have it, the sooner all the time limits will be reduced, the sooner it will fall off the enormous burden that we have carried with us for decades. In 13 years we have managed to introduce 26 amendments to the construction law. The result is that we have 20 types of construction offices, we have 10 types of licensing processes, and we are at 157th place in the construction permit within the ranking, which compares more than 190 countries in the world. What does that mean? We have been waiting on average five years for a new highway for 13 years, but I can confirm from the Minister of Transport's own experience that we have been waiting 20 years, even 25 years, for ordinary bypasses. We've been waiting 10 years on average for permissions connected with the transmission system, which is not a completely complicated construction. It's just not normal. The aim, therefore, was quite evidently to simplify everything, within the meaning of one administrative procedure, within the meaning of one office, within the meaning of one stamp. So speed up, simplify and digitize - because we are in the 21st century - not on the principle of increasing the number of workers, building new buildings for new authorities. The opposite is true. The new building law is a balanced compromise fulfilling the government's obligations arising from its programming declaration, and to support and accelerate, as I have already said, the construction in our country and the enforcement of the recodification of public building law, which must lead to simplification and reduction of preparation, and logically to increase competitiveness. I believe that this law will also be a starting tool, perhaps a restart of our economy after the coronavirus crisis, and I have already put it here in the context of investments that we consider essential in view of being out of the crisis more quickly. All the more so because we are an industrialised country, a technologically oriented country, and without investment, we have no chance of getting out of the crisis quickly. At the same time, it gives some certainty to domestic and foreign investors. And all I'm saying is that, according to the last ranking, we're in the 10th place of the most attractive country with regard to investment, Singapore in the first place. From the European Union, there is Great Britain, Poland and we. And no doubt the construction industry is making this position even worse. If we had a building permit faster, we could have been in the top five according to preliminary indicators. Recodification of public building law constitutes a comprehensive regulation of public building law. The work on this process was started, as has already been done here today, in 2017, right after this government, which made it its commitment. The Ministry of Regional Development then submitted material to the Government for the recodification of public building law, fundamental thesis, and after three years, namely in August of this year, the government passed a new construction law and submitted it to the Chamber of Deputies for discussion. It must be said that this is a compromise. Otherwise, it's not even possible. It's one of the most demanding laws we have at all. There are a number of interest groups and those who are participants not only in the construction process but also in the entities concerned. And it can't be any other way than everyone leaves the table and not everyone will be 100% satisfied. Everything was discussed with tens to hundreds of comment points: associations, professional chambers, parliamentary clubs. The compromise that fulfills our goal is to accelerate the preparation of the building, reduce the administration that is accompanying it, and ensure compliance with the deadlines by the state. Thus, the new building law will speed up the approval of all buildings and will at the same time provide the necessary legal certainty to builders, who within one year - I repeat, within one year - will know whether they can start building or not, including appeals and including review. The problem of the current situation is the huge fragmentation of building regulations, all processes and construction offices. According to the new law, there will be only one administrative procedure to authorise the construction, which will be run by one construction office. Absolutely fundamental, fundamental change. The result of the whole procedure will be one stamp - instead of the current more than 40 - from one construction office. In order to simplify this building authorisation, to make it more effective, it was therefore necessary to incorporate it into the law, and that is, of course, a fundamental thing, and I understand the debate, the reform of the building administration, given the growing phenomenon of systemic bias. Therefore, he calculated the substantive intention of the law, which the government approved in June last year, with a purely state construction administration. However, in agreement with the Union of Towns and Municipalities, with the Ministry of the Interior and at the same time with the participation of the Prime Minister, an agreement was reached this January, such that construction offices will remain in the municipalities in a delegated capacity, which will be left mainly to municipalities with the so-called extended scope, or some other municipalities that will meet the legally defined criteria. Translated into Czech, it is 200 municipalities with the extended scope and approximately 100 other municipalities that meet these criteria. These construction offices will decide on the constructions of local importance. The regional construction administration, which will be in the state's power, will decide on the construction of above-local importance. For strategic constructions of the state, such as motorways, railways, air constructions, nuclear power plants and similar, a so-called specialized construction office will be created, not a new building, but only with its gestures and expertise. The Supreme Building Office will then be the head of the state construction administration. I repeat, no new building, no new people, just a system transfer, which will be central administrative and subordinate to the government. The new building law also proposes a comprehensive procedural regulation for the approval of buildings. The aim is to speed up the building process again, eliminate the rampant administration, which, of course, is accompanying it, and, of course, to ensure compliance with the deadlines by the state. A relatively new thing that we have not been used to, which we have long called for, and which we are also getting into the legislative regime for the first time. The result of the proposed procedural changes is one procedure, one office. It will integrate all the institutions concerned as far as possible, with the evaluation of the public interests concerned directly by the building office, which will, however, be integrated into the protection of parts of the public interests concerned or thus by the building office on the basis of a statement or binding opinion of the non-integrated authorities concerned, or on the basis of a coordinated statement of the regional building office already mentioned. Unintegrated, it is important that only some agendas remain. These are, for example, an agenda for conservation, environmental protection in those valuable locations, upper law, fire protection, veterinary care and so on. The construction permit process will be one administrative procedure with fixed deadlines. Change again. For all non-integrated authorities concerned, the fiction of consent will apply, which will take place after the expiry of the time limit for the issue of observations or opinions. Binding deadlines are set not only for the expression of the authorities concerned but also for the expression of owners - very important - of public transport technical infrastructure. And above all, and I underline that, for the decision-making of the building office. It will apply to the municipal construction authorities themselves that if they do not decide on time, that is to say within the time limit laid down by law, or within the extended period, the management of the regional state construction office will be taken over and the proceedings will be completed instead of the inactive municipal construction office in turn. Speeding up again. [[9.30 hours]] The new construction law also proposes a fundamental change in the event of an appeal. Another big problem. The appeal authority will have to do so on its own, according to the so-called appeal authority. The appeal principle in the case to decide, i.e. the decision of the municipal building office will be confirmed or amended. Confirmed or changed - that is, not cancelled and returned for renegotiation, which was a stumbling block. The documentation for the permit of construction under the new construction law will be easier than today and compared to today's modification, this documentation will correspond to the details of the existing documentation for the issue of the zoning decision supplemented by the construction design solution, with an emphasis on the design of the supporting structures and the stability of the construction itself. However, the construction building will have an obligation to have the implementation documentation of the construction drawn up before the start of the construction, according to which the whole construction will then be realized. The new building law also aims to make partial changes in other problematic matters, and this is a judicial review, with the aim of speeding up proceedings at this time in matters of construction, but also in order to maintain the current standard of protection of citizens' rights. The new building law introduces a limited appeal principle, which means that the court can change the decision of the building office if the case can be decided on the basis of the facts found by the building office. This will logically lead to the court quickly correcting the defect of the building office's decision without having to disturb the building office's decision and return the matter to him again for further consideration. Another area brought about by the construction bill is the solution of so-called black buildings, or ordering the removal of buildings carried out without decision or measures of the building office. According to the new legislation, the builder or owner of the construction will be obliged, in addition to the standard conditions taken over from the existing legislation, to prove that he acted in good faith in the implementation of the unauthorized construction. If the good faith does not prove it, the building office will not be able to permit the building to be subsequently removed. Thus, it will certainly not be possible to consider a situation where a builder carries out a construction different from that specified in the permit as a demonstration of good faith. On the zoning section - another important area - the construction law establishes a new concept of the umbrella document at state level. The existing territorial development policy will be replaced by a territorial development plan on the basis of which key infrastructure structures can be authorised. The approval of land-use planning documentation at regional and municipal level remains within their separate competence. The acquisition of all land-use planning instruments remains carried over. The competence of individual regional authorities and municipalities will be clearly defined and this process will be greatly simplified without, of course, anyone, and it is important to say, reduced to their rights. An integral part of simplifying the procedures under the construction law, both in the area of urban planning and in the area of the construction order, is the proposed digitization and electronisation of all processes, which will fully correspond to the 21st century. This represents not only online communication with the authorities, but also transparency of all processes, as well as monitoring of set deadlines, not to mention that everyone will be able to look online into this system from among the authorities. What can I say in conclusion? I would like once again to sum up what the new law will bring, because I consider this to be a fundamental thing, which is not only of an economic nature, a sociological nature, helping us to resolve the current crisis, and basically helping virtually anyone who will ever build, or who is the institution concerned. The builder will know within one year whether he can build or not. The construction company will no longer have to look for more than 40 stamps, most of the authorities concerned will be integrated into the construction office. The location of the territorial and construction proceedings will be one more, so there will be only one possibility of appeal. In addition to appeals and actions at each stage of proceedings, it is now possible to request a review of the individual binding opinions. The superior body will have to decide on the basis of the appeal principle. This means ending infinite ping-pong, when the Board of Appeal returns proceedings to the first instance, often repeatedly, and the new building law ensures, and this is important, compliance with deadlines either by the building offices, non-integrated authorities, network managers, etc., which are nowadays not normally respected without any penalty. The construction company will be able to communicate electronically with the Office as part of the construction process, which is also not possible today. So, ladies and gentlemen, the aim is to move into the 21st century. Such a change may be radical for some of us, I agree with that, but the current average length of proceedings for building permits, I have already said, five years for flats, on highways of 13 and more years etc., it is further unacceptable. I believe that the Ministry of Regional Development, and I thank him for that, although I am here on behalf of today, prepared a good construction law, is well and honestly prepared, communicated. And we're just saying, we're ready to work on your suggestions that can make it even better. Let us try not to make this a policy, let us try to draw up a law here that will serve generations to come. We are ready to work together on possible modifications, to be the guarantor of maintaining what we certainly all want, such as the acceleration of building authorisation. Our country now needs and will need good news, and we now have a certain chance of sending one such citizen a covid despite the approval of this good new construction law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. I have here, just to be clear, two applications with priority rights for the debate, and I have noted President Michálek's application. Do you want to speak now, or will you wait for the debate to be the third? Otherwise, of course, you have the right to leave immediately. [[The answer's off the microphone.]] Then you have the floor. President Bartoš will then speak first in the debate with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor. I, of course, support the acceleration of the building process, but in this form, in which the government has put it, this raises many doubts, which is why I wanted to put forward a procedural proposal to await the presence of the Minister for Regional Development, because after all, we should give her a chance to heal and participate in this meeting. I do not understand why we cannot wait 10 days for the Minister of Regional Development to attend this meeting to answer questions. It really isn't a thing that can't wait 10 days. For three years, the government hasn't filed a bill of construction, so I don't understand why ten days should ruin the whole thing. We're in a situation today where we have 4,000 dead. For example, we have postponed the anti-corruption meeting, and instead we meet here on a short notice to this bill, where even the secretary is not present. I think it is actually unprecedented that the Minister of Industry, Trade and Transport is defending such an important bill here, and now he is still expressing his views on issues of local development. A lot of questions that are relevant to this decision cannot therefore be answered here. For example, when the Minister of Industry, Trade and Transport here said that the driving time lasts eight years, why doesn't he tell us why it doesn't address the control of the Ministry of Regional Development, which is the superior administrative authority of the regional authorities! So if regional authorities are not able to control management times under applicable laws, that is the basis where it has to start so that the existing mechanisms of the law, which we have here for 15 years, will work. So these are all very interesting things that can only be answered by the person who is at the head of the ministry, and without his presence, of course, there is no point in discussing such a fundamental standard, because the answers are simply from the Minister of Industry, Trade and Transport - I certainly appreciate that he came to the Chamber of Deputies, and I am sorry, he basically has a very uninhibited role here to present from the text a matter of the resort in which he is not moving, so we really cannot do it without the presence of the Minister. [[9.40 hours]] So I propose a procedural proposal to interrupt the House of Deputies' meeting in the presence of the Minister for Regional Development. I also wanted to refer to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 23 July 1996, an autonomous resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which regulates the course of meetings. In it, the Chamber of Deputies stated in paragraph 3 that the relevant members of the Government would attend the discussion of the individual items of the programme under their responsibility. So, in this case, the construction law under Act No.2/1969, the law of jurisdiction, falls within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Regional Development and there is no condition that a minister, a member of the government with jurisdiction for local development, is present here. I think that this is an issue that cannot be healed in this crucial case from a material point of view only by pointing out that the government will entrust another member of the government. I would understand that, but not in the current situation where we have a coronavirus crisis. [[Announcements from YES benches.]] I would ask ANO Members if they wish to express themselves, to do so through a microphone. They have a club president here who can speak with priority rights, so he can step out and explain to us why it won't wait ten days to wait until the secretary recovers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u5	I also thank you and have heard the procedural proposal, which I will immediately vote on. First, I'm going to sign you all out of the diaper on request, and I'm asking you to come forward again. Just to be clear in advance, I was given priority rights by the Minister, then by President Faltýnek. We are here before the debate, not even the rapporteur has spoken yet - just so you know. So we will vote on a procedural proposal to interrupt this point to the presence of the Minister for Regional Development. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number three, 95 Members registered, 36 against 41. This proposal was rejected. I will ask the Minister, who has claimed priority rights, then President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u6	Very briefly. The government can delegate any minister and here it has entrusted me. Not just with regard to industry and transport, but with regard to the fact that I am also Vice-President of the Government for the Economy. Industry, transport and local development are clearly involved in this strategy. And one more technical point. With regard to the indisposition of the Minister dostálový is present today in the hall of Deputy Minister Pavlová, who has stood by the whole law basically throughout its time and is prepared to possibly complete any technical discussion that will be there. That means we're in full lineup here and thank you for respecting this emergency situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. Mr. Faltýnek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, colleagues. I would merely like to support the proposal, or adopt it, by the Minister, Vice Prime Minister Havlíček, so that the House would allow Deputy Minister Pavlová, who is the principal author of this standard, to answer the specific questions asked here by colleague Michálek, Bartoš and others, so that these matters could be discussed in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u9	I have engaged and I see this as another proposal which must be voted by the House that the meeting will be attended by a person other than the person to whom it is due under the Rules of Procedure, and by the Deputy Minister. I think there's enough of us in the room. I am therefore opening the vote and who is in favour of the Deputy Minister's presence at the Chamber of Deputies' meeting? Who's against it? Voting number 4, 94 Members registered, for 56, versus 25. This proposal was adopted. It is now the rapporteur for this press' turn, and I would like the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Martin Kolovratník, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u10	Hello, good morning, colleagues, colleagues. I would like to speak to you briefly as rapporteur for this law. I'll follow up on the Minister's opening remarks. I can say for myself that I am ready to cooperate with you both here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies and in our various committees. And I want to start by saying that... so that you can also see this House press, that we are following up on the construction law, which we call a kind of special building law, that is the law 416/2009, the so-called. The line that we successfully discussed here in the House across the political spectrum and finished it at the end of this June. Then in October he was discussed in the Senate and from New Year he will pay. At some point, the 416 Act intervened in the order of construction. I don't want to use the word that he was some kind of appetizer, but he was prepping right here for the big construction law recodification. And I'm gonna make a little personal observation as rapporteur. I remember the Minister talking about it for 2017, when we discussed the last major amendment to the construction law here. Karla Šlechtová was still responsible for her then, so I personally expected more help from the amendment, a greater acceleration of the construction process. And it just didn't work out the way we thought it would. That's why we need a big change here. By the way, when I looked into historical documents, my colleague Šlechtová prepared material for the government, which was called Building Act - the basic thesis of recodification, before the elections in September 2017. So the arguments that we're hearing right now that it's sudden, that it's not ready in the standard way, etc., I have to respond a little reluctantly to them. It is a matter that has been discussed for at least three years by those of us who have been dealing with this issue, so we have been discussing it for three years. I certainly don't want to discuss whether or not there has been a violation of the processes, the rules of the Legislative Council of the Government. Klára Dostálová and Karel Havlíček and I have prepared very carefully not only for today's discussion, but also for the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies. And in response to Martin Kupka. I agree, you're right, colleague. It is one of the very essential, perhaps most significant interventions in the system of administration performance, delegation, etc. But I always want to point out and point out, they are not officials, they are workers, whether municipalities, regions, regional authorities, or construction offices, but they are citizens, they are those who want to build. Investors. Those who help the economy with their activities and build something new in general. That means I believe this will also be across the political spectrum. We are looking for a solution that simply helps people, helps investors and those who want to do something to build up. Mr Bartoš said that we should not discuss the law today in this extraordinary way that mayors, representatives of the authorities, should be present. But that's an odd argument. Many of us work in councils, including myself, whether municipalities or regions. In the role of coalition or opposition. There are many mayors among you. So I think the line, even the professional line from practice, is between you and me, and we're able to deal with it here and discuss things. And there's no need to wait. As I see it, we have three types of builders. We have ordinary citizens, we have the public sector, whether they are municipalities or regions, I can speak again from my personal experience. They are also big investors, such as Railway Administration or Road and Motorway Directorate. And we really have these problems, the delays on that journey, we have huge, sometimes extreme. And that is what we want to deal with here in the House of Deputies. [[9.50 hours]] Just a brief example for ammunition. In my hometown, in Pardubice, in a small district, we discussed the sidewalk to the school, an event that cost tens of thousands of units, it was an investment event about 200 meters long, and given the complexity of the current system and the possibility of recalling and often to unnecessary attacking the process, we prepared almost three years before such a short event was resolved. And I believe that we can agree on this, let us colleagues from the government camp, as well as you, colleagues from the opposition, that this is probably something that we really don't want and that needs to be changed. I'm, and I'm about to finish, briefly mentioned the four hundred and sixty-six, line constructions. We have solved some weaknesses in the special law on transport, property law preparation, land purchase, part of the long process, but we have not solved the other processes such as territorial management, such as administrative deadlines and so on and so on. And that's what we want to follow up on right here in the amendment of building law. Often in a public debate, I hear opposition, criticism, that it will change the systems of delegation in municipalities, on the margins. But once again, we're not making laws for civil servants here, for the work system of officials, whether it's in municipalities or on the outskirts, we're making laws for people, for citizens. And at the moment, and this may also be the answer to your proposals to postpone this discussion, in my opinion, the law, the amendment, is all the more up-to-date and necessary because it will support the economy, support investment and support the influx of money, whether public or private, into macroeconomic events throughout the Czech Republic. Then we'll improve the process. Please do not forget in this discussion what I think is one of the main moments. It's about digitization, it's about unification of processes, it's about what we see in materials and what we say as the main thing, that they're supposed to orbit documents, materials and not to orbit citizens, investors and people who want to build or build something. So that's why I want to ask you and my opponents, not to worry about the obstructions, not to worry about the process that everything has been prepared. Like I said, we've been discussing this thing for almost three years, we've got the opinions that we're discussing. [[Members of the Pirates strongly draw attention to the reporting role of Mr Kolovratník.]] Thank you. I know I'm a rapporteur, colleagues. Thank you for getting so excited. I know what my position here in the House is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u11	Please don't yell at each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u12	The last sentence to get your space as a newsletter. I want to say that I am ready to discuss this matter with the Economic Committee, that in a detailed debate I will also propose an extension of the time limit for committee discussions. I assume that you, colleagues, will propose an assignment to other committees such as the public administration or the constitutionally-legal committee. For my part, my fellow Members, I can guarantee that I will certainly support these proposals as rapporteur. And I believe that in the end we will find the majority agreement on building law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. The debate has not yet been opened for colleagues who have made a point of fact to comply with this application. At least one speaker must always speak in order to respond to the speaker. At this point, I am opening a general debate to which President Bartoš is the first to sign up in writing before the beginning of the meeting, then with priority rights for ODS, Mr Kupka, and we will continue. Then there is Mr. Feri, who wants to speak with the opinion of the TOP 09 Club. Please, Mr President, in the debate, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u14	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin to comment on the draft of the new construction law itself, I would only like to make a small comment on what we have witnessed here. First thing, I think it's for the minister's performance. I have this favorite novel by Mr Orwell, where he describes a method called doublethink, where you take something and describe it the exact opposite. And what I see in these amazing brochures that we have had here several times on the table in the Ministry's chalk paper and what I have also noted in the statement by Minister Havlíček: the government will simply take the reservations that are to the law and begin to present them as the characteristics of the law. We've actually heard the exact opposite of what the law actually brings. That seems to me to be a pretty big problem with the presentation of this press. It's not true there's been some obstruction. I will just point out that 8,000 fundamental comments came to this law, even in an interreort that was dealt only formally. What does that mean? That somewhere in the government or in the department debate they said hey, we're not gonna deal with it, pull it back, OK. Those reservations were made by the Government's Legislative Council. Those reservations come from the courts in the area of administrative justice. But they don't talk about those things. Here's a very powerful image, the secretary is making Facebook videos and there's just a line here: we want to start building here, our super office will figure it out. So much for the Prime Minister's opening statement. I'm of the opinion that we really should have waited those ten days. I also join the desire to heal the Minister, wish her a lot of health and more democracy. Second thing. With all due respect to the Deputy Secretary. I'm almost on the verge of marking it... Okay, decadence. I have an assistant in the House, and I'm not going to name her here, which came out of the tender, which we normally do with the pirát - a public tender. My assistant is very interested in the areas of local development, as is my right hand in preparing a comprehensive amendment to this government rodeo, as I already call it, because presentation and content are changing so quickly that one wonders. I wanted to ask if it would be okay, then, if I were to propose here, in any future bill proposal or in any of my speeches, that it would therefore be possible to present, defend and discuss with Members my assistant. I think he has the powers to do that, to do those things. I don't think the sněmovna would pretend to be my assistant here. Nor do I think that the answers of Members in such important legislation, which will affect the whole Czech Republic, with transaction costs of tens of billions of crowns, to decompose the current delegation, that this is to be defended here by an employee of the Ministry of Regional Development. I think this is a political debate where elected Members speak. It is not quite the custom that there are ministers at YES who have gone through some democratic process of elections, but yet they are responsible persons to discuss with Members here, and we control their work. The Deputy Minister's job is to be checked by the secretary. That's probably her job. I think we deserve answers from the person who makes the law and who decides it. That was my introduction to the trial. Nor will I comment too much here on the speech of the House rapporteur. I would just like to point out that it is a standard in the Chamber of Deputies and in the historical research that the law relating to the building procedure is rapporteur and the main guarantor is the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, as the first part was decided by the Organizing Committee of the House. Then, on the pressure of Minister Dostálová, the organizational committee reviewed this decision, moved it gestureically - which is completely nonsense, historically it was never so, with argument: but we also dealt with the line constructions here - under another committee. So I would like to at least have some respect for the standard processes in the House - not to answer the Members here: I am the rapporteur, I am the rapporteur and so on. That was my brief introduction to what we've been dealing with here for about fifteen, twenty or thirty minutes, and now to the law itself. I will try to be considerably shorter than I was at the outset, but that feeling of injustice has caused a certain emotion to express what is being presented to us here. [[10.00 hours]] The declared intention of both the government and the ministry is to speed up and simplify the construction process in the Czech Republic. That sounds good, really building proceedings at this point can be called a bureaucratic hell, both for construction workers and companies, and for citizens who choose to build their own housing or another construction or to do some work that the construction law regulates and regulates. And with that godly intention, I think we'll all agree in this House, Pirates, ODS, SPD, CSSD, YES. After all, we, through the House Initiative, have once again been Members of all parties represented in the House by the Public Administration Sub-Committee, submitted and finally, in cooperation with the Government, passed a law that addresses digital technical maps, which, thanks to Mr Kupka's initiative here, already presents some elegant solution for real speeding up these processes, presents a portal for the builder, a digital file where the project documentation will be. It is a solution à la for example Finland or Denmark, where there will be a portal solution for authorities, builders, citizens. There will be one electronic documentation, the process will be predictable and clear. That's what I think is the way. What does the Ministry suggest, or the entire government, or has it been mediated to us through Minister Havlíček? The introduction of institutional changes, the emergence of new offices or the substantial reduction of public participation that the proposal presents and with which it envisages is questionable in view of the whole process of building proceedings. In its essence, it goes against the effect of the Finnish concept, where we go through digitization, when the terms are guarded by the automatic, notification comes by data message or by e-mail. That's the way to get those processes under control and solve it so that everything works in terms, simply and that a citizen or builder - and that there is no representative of the Ministry of the Interior who has a lot to talk about, which represented the concept of client-oriented state administration, where the citizen, the builder is a client who comes up with the intention: I want to build this construction here in a territorial whole according to the zoning plan here, this is my proposal - do I fulfill all that is necessary to build this construction under the applicable law? And it's supposed to be served. That's the way we're supposed to go, a client-oriented government, not a pompous bureaucrat, by creating a super-office. So let us ask ourselves again whether the proposed proposal for a new construction law actually fulfils the objective, simplification, the acceleration of the construction process while maintaining the protection of public interests. It must be said that it will certainly not bring these objectives in the present adjustment. This building acceleration as such, although it is guaranteed here within a year, will not in its essence accelerate. The question of debyrocratisation or availability of housing. If you have - and I know that there are a lot of people here who work in management positions or how project management or architecture are supposed to work - a problem that you can't even describe - and that is the biggest reservation about the law that doesn't have input data for those decisions, RIA too - you can't solve the problem by taking it and moving it somewhere like a higher level, where it's completely lost contact with the locality itself, like a community where some land planning documents apply. That's what I think is really a step backwards at this point. The fact that it doesn't bring the desired result is confirmed by expert analysis, but also by a number of experts. And I, unlike the MMR, and I've been involved in a number of gremias, I don't suspect any tender arguments. [[is]] The criticism came from the board for, excuse me, the LRV, the council of the government or the courts. They even call the proposed legislation a risk in terms of protecting citizens' rights. Otherwise, the mistreatment of the law can also be seen in the style and manner of the debate, in the explanatory report. One argument of the petitioners in public space. I was setting an example of that video on Facebook, where the Minister talks about the construction law and ties it to how cool it will be to build motorways, which, of course, the new building law does not solve as such, it is being dealt with by other legislation, I think it has already been said here. I have two groups of reservations about this proposal. I'd split them up. I'll go for points. I hope that other people who will be speaking here, as I noted at the press conference in the morning of the group that is preparing the amendment to this government, are likely to be heard by other people. To the process of creation. The whole process of preparing the bill was wrong from the start. The government bypassed its own rules for writing laws, bypassed the employees of the MMR, and those reservations were raised in public space, and filed the law with a law firm, which, among other things, often represents developers. I just want to say that the word developer isn't a dirty word to me. The solution to public life is always a compromise issue for people, citizens living in the environment, politicians who give it some kind of framework and some kind of vision, and, of course, construction companies that implement those projects in connection with the construction law. However, it is not good for an external law firm to prepare a standard of this magnitude, which listens very much to lobbyists at another time, at that time the Chamber of Commerce played an important role, which subsequently, and you also have the observations of the Chamber of Commerce, which, although going in a different direction than the pirát present, is very critical to this press, literally put their hands away from it, because they could no longer look at it. Still on the move. The material, and I have already mentioned it, has been applied to the unprecedented 8,000 comments. Most of them have been dealt with formally. The ministers of the resorts have retreated from these. Several hundred unsolved contradictions remain. I wonder if, in those 90 days, which I have heard as a promise, or perhaps a longer term for committees, like the few hundred unresolved contradictions we, as Members, are able to declare when the Ministry, which has the means to do so, has a legal apparatus, cannot deal with these comments in this debate. Otherwise, both supreme courts consider the law a risk to the protection of people's rights, which I have already mentioned. For the first time, the Government's Legislative Council rejected the proposal completely and, even after its revision, had a number of comments and objections. Also vital information. I would now return to what has already become such a mess in the Czech Republic, and you can also look at the Internet and Google it. RIA and government bills. This percentage, when drawn up or taken into account by RIA's conclusions on government bills, is significantly reduced, while it should be mandatory for the preparation of these types of laws. According to the RIA government commission, which therefore oversees the analytical work in the preparation of the law, there was not enough analysis of the preparation itself, so the Ministry does not know if the law can solve the problems it is supposed to solve. Again, according to independent experts, this does not point to the most sensitive places, especially because in the preparation of the law, the problems were neither marked nor clearly documented. Now a few reservations about the very contents of the law. The law removes the construction authorities from the authorities and in the finals it transfers the competence. I had the opportunity to be in the debate with Mr Kalous in the morning, with whom I therefore attend the Public Administration Committee, and he spoke about the fact that the government Members - or I do not know what the platform is - are preparing another comprehensive amendment for this ministerial proposal. I am worried, and according to all the indications, it will also be that the comprehensive amendment to the negotiated law will return to the original draft, the creation of a super-office, the relocation of thousands of officials not only in fact, but also under the service law. Which I think the Prime Minister should be sitting here, who once said that not one official was under the service law, but perhaps the one time he had reservations about the law before he thought propaganda was more important than what he declared was his goal. The law weakens the power of the council to prepare the zoning plan. It weakens the protection of public interests. We are in favour of partial integration where it makes sense, but it must not be at the expense of losing the protection of those interests, and it must not be the integration that the Ministry - and I will use this analogy of my fellow Ferjenčík - will create in a kind of phenetric way, it is from the French la fenêtre, the window that it looks like this and says, um, we will integrate these organs and leave these. What really happened in that last circle of change before the Ministry submitted this press? Well, whoever yelled more, who was banging more on the door or had a bigger lever, he put the exception there. I would like to see, and I have seen the table and I have met developers during construction in Prague 8 in Karlín, it really is an enormous excel, everything has to be dealt with. But we need to find out if that's valid, if that's the right standard at the time. Because before you start building something, the confirmation is no longer valid, because the proper body is governed by a new European directive, some standard. This is how it must be done, and where the process integration is possible, there it must be done. [[10.10 hours]] What really bothers me is centralism. I believe that in a time of mobile phones, when even the government is meeting digitally, when the Prime Minister has a picture every two hours on the same computer - now I am talking to this, now I am talking to this - the principle of central management at the moment of the Internet distributed networks, where we are going to do authorities and move people, is simply a step back. It's such a huge concentration in one organ. I like it when violence, and it was not so long ago, the area of sport was ripped out of the competence of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, a super office was created where it was known from the beginning that it was a newsstand for one of the authors of the law, and it was said: we are dealing with financing and corruption in sport. We have not managed to enforce one - and Mr Lukáš Bartoň has done so for us - one digital anti-corruption measure so that money does not go up there, so that it is under greater control, from transparent accounts, from registers to which you can look, from the processing processes of individual applications for funding. And now we're practically going the same way. This central management, when the government has ambition, and the delegated powers deal with it, but in the central office, it just dictates to the cities what and how to do directly, where some government is supposed to be entrusted with probably, or the chosen or elected superdirector, it's just a step... I was nine years old at eighty-nine, but I see modern history as quite problematic from this point of view. And it's not the first step in bringing down powers that don't belong to it. There are a number of major problems. They concern, for example, planning contracts which may restrict public rights in the course of changes to the zoning plan. There is a strong possibility of limiting appeals to judicial review. There's bail. There are fines that big players who live in a competitive environment and actually deal with business things will certainly not deter you, while when you suddenly grow up in front of the house - and I'm from Jablonec nad Nisou, come see what they built for us in the centre of Jablonec instead of old Jablona in the Art Nouveau center behind the house, and the citizens couldn't even page - it's getting tougher. The bill does not pay enough attention to regulatory plans. I know this is difficult in the Czech Republic, the creation of a good regulatory plan. But it's a standard in Europe. If you look at cities like Hamburg, where even the city has its own in the quotation marks of a developer, investor and can actually work with the territory in regulatory plans, even buy out, consolidate and compete again. Just a regulatory plan isn't a zoning plan. It's a dossier that determines the specifics of the region. They should be strengthened. Even the expert conference, which we had in the House, is based on the regulatory plan as an appropriate tool. And the law should not assume its existence, it could significantly delay or tie things to it, but at least inspire cities methodologically and give them the view, like Mr. Kupka already put the portal builder in digital technical maps. That's the first step. That law should address the role of regulatory planning. And the last one. Of course, the law no longer meets the first assignment - the criticism once again sounds in public space - when we had a substantive intention in hand. The law is all about something else. There is no internal system that makes sense of compromises and concessions. He's the mixed-up guy trying to hand over some records to the Prime Minister here, we made the building bill, put it on the billboards. Although the availability of housing really doesn't solve the law, even though the Minister will graduate for state money in various videos. It's not like that. This law regulates building procedures and related processes in the Czech Republic, but does not increase the availability of housing. So I kind of got into a conversation. I'll go to the early end. According to the Home Office's analysis, and I've already mentioned it - and I've been looking at the Ministry's website now, I don't know if it's ever been there, but the paper, the analysis has already appeared in the House, I don't want to say that it's been shredded, but I don't think it's been talked about enough, and social democracy through the Home Office, which is responsible for the administration, is kind of giving away. I hope that they will reconsider their procedure during the negotiations. In the first phase, the Ministry of Interior spoke about the risk of jamming the construction proceedings in the Czech Republic for up to two years, to move tens of thousands of officials in the proceedings, and - I think that is another thing - transaction costs that will go to tens of millions, for a thing that will take place in 2022, 2023. That could be another government here. So the ambition before the election is to pin at least one big law on the board that this government will deliver. It will be paid by the start of next year's transformation, which will already inherit debts burdened by the future government, namely the whole Czech Republic. I think it's a very irresponsible procedure. I really wouldn't want managers like that in my firm. Like a cherry on a cake, just the ending. The referring Ministry is the Ministry of Regional Development, and the agenda of the law therefore logically belongs to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. In some public space, I called it an outrageous government push, because otherwise, you took the step of the House's Organizing Committee, which took this away from the Public Administration Committee, without, for example, being informed as President, I was given a text message, which we no longer have, Mr President, so I think it is a major intervention in the functioning of the House and the rules that have been followed here. I think it's like once in a parliamentary term when a gown like this gets done. I, as chairman of the committee, have taken up the rapporteur for this press, which I always do carefully and unbiasedly, which, therefore, did not seem to be the case in the opening word of the Member when he read some sentences here, which I have already heard from some people in almost the same language. Thus, the Ministry did not agree that the proposal could be put forward at all by someone from a group of constructive critics or by someone dealing with it, on the committee where the group for the new construction law, where it is being prepared, and the Minister knows about it, as well as the comprehensive amendment. So there was a completely purposeful re-enactment, and this was taken away from us. I think that illustrates what the real motivation for the proposed changes is, what the forces are really behind the formation of this law. Given what I have said in this area, both content criticism and procedural criticism, then in a detailed reading, I will propose a return, and maybe it will sound from others, if they join in, to return the proposal to the government back to work. If this does not pass, I will insist that the guarantee committee be changed back to the Public Administration and Regional Development Committee where the legislation belongs. There will therefore be a proposal for the Guarantee Committee to become, as it should be, a Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. If this does not happen, I will demand that it be assigned to this committee as well, while I will insist, and I am glad that it has already been said here, that if the Government votes of the Government and perhaps other supporting Members will decide to continue pushing this law by the House, in order to allow an extension of the longer term for committee discussions. I'll design 120 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. Only a short correction. Of course, the Organizing Committee cannot change the guarantee committee. We'll vote on that. He will decide by plenary as a sovereign. Also, Mrs. Assistant, if you want her to act for you, if you propose this under Section 52, we can vote on it. That was just a factual point of view. Now we have a point of fact - Mr Kalous. Otherwise, recapitulation - with the club's opinion, Mr Kupka will speak, then Mr Feri will speak with the club's opinion, and then we have priority rights, Mr Fiala's President and Mr Výborný with the club's opinion. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Only briefly to President Bartoš, because I will be speaking later in the debate. I think the pirát want a transparent environment. And the bill is on the way to him. And it's weird that you're just dealing with formalistic things and you're not worried about the main objective. Well, you were talking about digitizing. And the digitalization doesn't solve it. Like us, we agree, of course, and it's in the proposal, but it doesn't solve a lot of things, it doesn't solve a legislative ping-pong, it doesn't solve a multiplier review. You just said exactly the opposite of what is in the bill, and that is still very superficially, Mr President. And please explain to me -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u17	I would like to address it through me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u18	Through Mr President, I apologise. And please explain to me how a planning agreement could limit public rights in the procurement of a zoning plan. Please explain that to me. And you were also talking about the analysis of RIA. And it is precisely calculated that, just after integration and the introduction of the appeal, there will be a few billion savings per year, because it will cease to correspond indefinitely between the authorities, but it will only be assessed once and it will only settle once. And that amount amounts to 4 billion somewhere, and that's exactly what the counties want to do to maintain the roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u19	I thank you for keeping time. And your speech raised two factual points, first President Bartoš, then Mr Juchelka. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor. Through Mr President, I will answer Mr Kalous. While spatial planning is a process that is approved at the level of self-government, which is transparent and subsequently voted on, the acquisition contracts are obviously not under public control and are concluded by the council with the investor for the area. That's the first thing. I don't understand the relevance of road financing. We have a fund here, the government has transferred road law to the edge. I've long been opposed to fighting here every year about how much of this money will go there. Those regions have their communications, there's a fund, and the money should be provided without the government playing any power games on it, whether or not it's coming to the region. The correspondence you are talking about - yes, I also think that we should not currently send letters printed, recommended that everything should not be dealt with by data messages. The actual savings are just through the Construction Portal that it contains the only documentation that both the investigators and the officials and the authorities concerned approach, with a time stamp, with an electronic signature, and do so without the need for correspondence, multiplications and more. And I'm glad you mentioned the things that are in that law. Even the comprehensive amendment makes use of - and I will say this frankly, there are good proposals in the bill. The principle of this law is wrong, the creation of one building office, the withdrawal of competences is wrong. And indeed, if the problem is at a lower level, you will not achieve it by moving to a higher level without correcting the process. And the repair is the digitization that has already started in digital technical maps and it is only marginally related to this law, because we have already started here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. So Mr Juchelka canceled his point of order and there are no others. So we'll continue with the applications. With the club's opinion, Mr Kupka will give priority, Mr Feri will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u22	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a moment ago, the Minister asked us to postpone our policy and to devote ourselves to the construction law and to helping the Czech Republic have the best conditions. For me, the definition of hypocrisy. Because what did she do next to the government coalition? And that's even strangely defined here by the new communists, the SPD and the ANO movement. What did she do? From the very first moment on, he's been wrestling with customs. Instead of a standard proposal from the Guarantee Committee being a committee on public administration and regional development, which is, of course, the natural gesture committee, because the MMR has always just belonged to the Public Administration Committee, so there is probably some policy behind which the Minister is trying to discourage us, so it is moving on to the Economic Committee. We don't know why, but in any case, it's the first violation of standard practice. Another remarkable thing, when we call for us to create room for the Minister to defend as a person with a political mandate a major reform of the construction law, is said to be impossible and instead calls for specific answers, specific things, which are political, to present its deputy. That's not standard. We are moving on a political collapsing ground, and of course, a number of important things that we are going to talk about have a significant political dimension, because it is simply true that what the construction law brings in this government regulation is the most important intervention in the public administration over the last ten years, and therefore deserves a proper debate. Another - the rolling of democratic customs, the expression of the rapporteur. The rapporteur, after all, we know what he has as a key task: to present the law, to draw attention to individual points. Instead, an activist struggle for the greatest good in the world in the form of a new building law without a critical view and insight over the reform. That's not standard either. We are calling for this key legal form to be actually discussed here. To blame us for not being willing to contribute to the key, that's really to speed up the construction process, but you're completely out of line. After all, we have already prepared some very specific proposals to simplify and improve the construction process, whether digitalisation or for example. and specific proposals in the Act on Acceleration of Line Buildings. After all, the fiction of the consent position as one of the key things and points to speed up the processes in the Czech Republic came from us and we fully supported it and we will, of course, continue to support it. We have no doubt that there are a number of specific positive things, and we will stand behind them. But we reject the steps that will actually threaten the course of construction activity in the Czech Republic. And that's not just the opposition's opinion, it's not just politics. This is a concrete reminder of a number of professional organizations, it is also a fundamental reminder of your own ministry of government - the Ministry of the Interior. The analysis it created cannot be shredded, it cannot be kept secret from the public. What did she say? She said that if this reform were to go through, it could pose a serious threat to the construction activity or to the cessation of construction activity in the Czech Republic for two years. Well, that's a serious point. If we are all calling for investment from the crisis, under these circumstances, to risk endangering the construction activity in the Czech Republic, there is a step in the exact opposite direction to what you are calling for. What are the reasons why we find ourselves in this difficult situation? Well, let's look at specific data. Year 2015 - average length of construction proceedings 143 days. 2019 - listen well - 246 days! I mean, it's a good place to ask if there's such a huge shift of more than 100 days in the length of an average building procedure where there's a cause. What happened so crucial in that period that the construction process in the Czech Republic was significantly extended? What was that? Well, the answer is simple. At that time, the Czech Republic recorded one amendment to the construction law, and I remember it well. We've heard magical talk about how things have to be simplified, how things have to go forward, how we're all interested in it. We were also reminding of the fundamental problems that this would bring. No one here from the government coalition has heard those factual arguments. And the result? Well, we read the results in those numbers. The amendment started to apply on 1 January 2018, brought new stamps, e.g. the binding opinion of the zoning authority. This is one of the reasons why today the Czech Republic has 246 days of average length of construction proceedings. That's the answer. And you can't deny it, because the data in this respect is quite clear. Or give another reason for what happened at a time when the ANO movement, as a resort of the Ministry of Regional Development, was extended by more than 100 days. What was that? And then I would expect you to come in and say, "We've identified the problem, it's a), it's a, it's b), it's c, and we're going to propose here how to solve these specific things and how to do it so that we can eliminate this mistake that we made in 2018. [[10.30 hours]] It sounds like we need to move to the 21st century. Yes, a key shift in how to administer the construction law in the Czech Republic is digitization. We agree on this, and I welcome the fact that the construction law brings into its form an already anchored course in which Members have participated across the Chamber of Deputies, but which is already valid. We already know that the construction process will be digitized in the Czech Republic. That's not the news that the government's form of construction law would bring. And let's say in detail what it means to digitize it, so that we can describe it to the normal builder and present it exactly. It means - and here I am, I hope, also good service to those who will describe the function of the modification, because this is what really matters. It is about having an instrument, as in other countries, that really simplifies and accelerates the process of obtaining building permits. At the moment that the entire package of digitalization changes that have already been passed by the House comes into effect, it means that the builder's portal will serve as a communication platform, as a way not only to request a building permit, but also to monitor the process. So the builder comes to the computer and asks for a building permit. At that point, there is one system available throughout the Republic, which means a clear, identical application with the same boxes, which will also be filled out on their own, because by that time the law on the right of a citizen to digital service will be already in force and effective, which means that it will not have to fill out the information again, so it will be even faster. At the same time, either the designer or directly he will be able to insert the documentation of the project into the system in digital form. At the same time, information will go to all the authorities concerned and to the relevant building office about the fact that there is a specific intention to be discussed. And from that moment on, the builder has been available as long as the negotiations take place, how long the comments of his purpose have been going on. It can also learn what possible ongoing comments may be made by the authorities, and it can also monitor and respond to the progress of the entire construction in the preparatory process through individual phases. This is a key shift in how the construction process will take place in the Czech Republic. And we have the support for these claims in the case of a number of countries where something like this works. And what is important is that, together with digitization in addition to the data repository, the project documentation mentioned will also be able to be traced historically, backwards, all other steps, all other comments, all other documents that the construction and the construction plan will receive. At the same time, it will be possible to follow a digital technical map with various layers, including territorial plans, including technical networks, etc. And it is up to us to be able to gradually refine the evidence so that it serves as a binding basis for individual decisions in the future. That's the 21st century you're talking about. But unfortunately what this government resemblance brings is a return to the 19th in the form of a central mega building office. You can't seriously mean that a step into the 21st century means we're going to build a new bureaucratic structure here. Has it ever happened anywhere in the world that a serious problem would solve the emergence of a new office? I certainly don't remember that, and nothing like that happened, because the emergence of a new office really, really doesn't solve problems, but it generates new ones. When the ministerial analysis speaks, I mean the analysis of the Ministry of the Interior, of the fact that the law can bring about a threat to the construction process, it also means that the new office that will be created will need new directives, new organizational regulations, securing the officials themselves and a whole range of other things. Why does this move seem to us to be a major problem in terms of further action? Among other things, because, in the form of a covid crisis, it will bring further dramatic demands on the state budget. Not only the purchase, which will be in the order of several billion crowns, but it will mean, of course, an increase in costs for the future, undeniably. Then we hear arguments that such a step will bring more representativeness, that it will also bring a solution to systemic bias. But the answers are unsatisfactory - they just don't have to. This doesn't have to happen, virtually. other problems may arise. And what we hear from cities and municipalities, where there is generally a shortage of good quality people at construction offices, that those who are there and who are of good quality will stay there, because why would they go into the regime of the Civil Service Act? What would involve them if we all know that the Civil Service Act has somehow failed, and we hear it from the Prime Minister's mouth? And we have also heard that he will not allow one other official to be added to the regime of the Civil Service Act in the Czech Republic. And look, all of a sudden, we're adding not ten, not twenty, not a hundred, but thousands of them. Because what's the government proposal in the hybrid form that's on the table doing? Let's show it on specific cases. In this new regime, for example, you will be a builder who wants to build a family house and you will come to a general construction office in Brandýs nad Labem - Staré Boleslav. You will make a proposal, but you will find that in fact all these other opinions will be issued no longer by the one specific office in Brandýs nad Labem - Staré Boleslav, but all the others will be issued by the regional construction office. There you will ask if the intention is in line with, for example, the interests of nature and landscape protection, whether it is in accordance with waste management, with waste laws, if it meets all the conditions under the Road Traffic Act and the Road Act when connected to communication. There you'll be asking about a whole bunch of other things. So the idea that something is going to get really better for this builder is just wrong. On the contrary, what can really bring a shift is the digitalisation mentioned, which will be able to solve this much better, in a way that is understandable and in the form to which the Czech public, as it is accustomed nowadays to proceed, to whom to contact so that it is as close as possible to its place as possible, so that is one of the important things that we want to build on. And what's important is to change the functioning of the authorities themselves. The natural rule is that when something works, we should try to expand and move on. We have cases of a number of city authorities that have proven the integration that it is worth seeking to achieve in the current construction law. How did they do that? They simply agreed within those authorities that when the builder comes with his application, they are able to do so very quickly themselves, not that he will do something orbiting, but themselves to ensure an expression of compliance with the laws in the field of waste management, nature and landscape protection, with the agricultural soil fund and it combines itself within its own activities. What's stopping us from determining this as a principle for all the authorities? There's nothing to stop it but will. And instead, there's a proposal for a mega-new construction office that will have everything that every bureaucratic apparatus has, it will encapsulate, just like every office does naturally, because it's its own, and I say that with good will and respect for high-quality officials, but it's just a natural process that has been repeatedly described by scientists and theorists, such as Ludwig von Mises, is devoted to this in detail in his consideration. And unfortunately, this is what the new building bill brings. [[10.40 hours]] What numbers are we talking about? If we look at the Home Office analysis, there's a whole series of numbers. The negative impact on the economy is expressed in the amount of CZK 204 billion minus. There's a minus sign. After all, this is a serious signal for us to have a substantive debate and try to prevent possible negative effects and risks. That's more like it's just a standard that doesn't have to pay for one year. This is a standard that should be here with the Czech Republic and with citizens much longer. That's why I'm calling for the government coalition not to be swaying material comments and acting not only standard, but just acting rationally, with regard to the standard that is really supposed to be here for more years. By launching the whole process in a non-standard way, you're launching it the way it started, it really doesn't add up. And our interest is, and you hear it from everyone here, to contribute to speeding up and simplifying the construction process in the Czech Republic. And what is necessary for this? Exactly analyze the causes of these 246 days. To say what led to our taking so long and removing it step by step. And of course here we are adding to the specific principles for which we also want to fight and which will include our complex adaptation, the complex proposal on which we are working. We will avoid the dramatic mega building agency, which poses a risk, but we will strengthen and support actions that are reasonable. What we're talking about is that the famous ping-pong won't work. That when you appeal, the second-instance authority will write a multiple-page conclusion, where it ends by returning the matter back to the first instance. This is one of the problems the Czech Republic has. And here's where to say no, the second-instance authority decides at that point, we agree, and this is definitely what's supposed to get into the building bill. So are the fictions of consent and expression. To make sure it's not wrong, we don't agree with the construction permit fiction. I don't think there's room for that. The issue of a building permit based on the principle of fiction creates significant risks. But as part of making individual statements, where the authorities don't respond in time, that's what's appropriate. If we want citizens to meet exactly all legal deadlines, so should the state. And it has the tools to do so, and in this regard we will definitely support the fiction of consent or consent in relation to, for example, network owners. Those are the principles we stand for and stand for. What will be important from the point of view of the other, for example, the judicial review, and we also identify this, so that it is not possible to apply a comment that has not been mentioned in the previous hearing and that needs to be re-established. These are specific important principles that should certainly appear in that law. What we consider important also from the point of view of spatial planning is that municipalities really have the opportunity to make the most of the tools and possibilities to make territorial plans. We fight to make it not only stop quickly in the Czech Republic, but also to build well. An important condition for this is that as many municipalities and cities as possible have good territorial plans. I mentioned here the example of the new Section 96b, namely the binding position of the zoning authority. What caused it? We have employed specialists in municipal authorities with extended scope of issuing often vague opinions such as rain, we will not get wet. And we took their time. The time of qualified people who were able to pursue and should have devoted themselves to the procurement of territorial plans. And that is a shame, because that would be a way to improve the construction process in the Czech Republic. We call for municipalities to have as many possibilities as possible in this regard. So that they can continue to develop territorial plans through qualified persons or so-called. Flying buyers. We will, of course, fight to make the best possible work of the authorities in charge of the state administration today. But we're also going to have to do it so that if they have qualified workers themselves, so that they can make territorial plans this way too. And we consider it important that public interests and also the interests of cities, municipalities and regions should be balanced in this regard. I'm gonna go back one more time to what the new building bill brings from the government benches or from the government workshop. It brings - and I am very seriously - a major intervention in the current form of regional authorities. I've already mentioned it a little bit. We say that we want more representativeness, but today, for example, at the edges of the professional sections work just as there are people in one office who are engaged in environmental protection, conservation of nature and landscape not only from the point of view of construction projects, but also from other agendas that are in charge. And there they are representative of each other in times of illness, during holidays, etc. The moment you bring out those who will then comment purely on the construction projects, into that new mega construction office, there may be more if they are willing to cross, but they will be missing from the regional authorities themselves. And a similar problem occurs in cities, virtually. in municipalities with extended scope. We're generating more problems that we just don't know how they're going to happen. And what sounded repeatedly. After all, many of these people have their own will, and they will consider whether they will leave the Act on Officials of Self-governing Territorial Units, from their environment, in which, of course, they are trained, in which they work, to go somewhere where they don't know it well. I consider that a significant risk. And when we say that interest is common, please also prove it by listening to specific factual comments and answering what is presented to you not only as an indication, but as a description of the serious risks of this government proposal. Of course, I could not devote so much time to specific reflections. I believe there's still room for that. That there will also be room for you to reconsider the plan to go the way of the guarantee committee on a non-standard basis in the form of an economic committee. That you give room to the construction law, because it is a key reform of the performance of official activity in the Czech Republic, discussed the guarantee in the Committee on Public Administration. That you will also give room to negotiate and discuss in committee constitutionally-legally. These are all steps to contribute to the fact that, with some perspective, this standard has a chance to pass through the Chamber of Deputies and was, in effect, better than the present document. That's a common plan. The law is supposed to be here for a really long time. And I strongly hope that if you listen to the arguments I put forward here, at least a little bit, that you will withdraw from the hypocritical challenge of "do not make politics here," but you will say "let us make a real contribution to the fact that the law will have a head and a heel, it will not contain senseless risks and will contribute to the fact that it will be really easier and easier for builders in the Czech Republic." Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u23	That was Mr Kupka with the ODS club's opinion. Mr Dominik Feri will now speak with the opinion of TOP 09. Mr. President of the SPD Radim Fiala will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u24	Mr Vice-President, Minister, honourable colleagues, first of all, what has happened here. The Chamber of Deputies is a political collapsing ground. Each of us here has some political responsibility. It does not matter if you are sitting in front as President of the House of Deputies through Mr President or if you are sitting in the back and performing once or twice a year. You have every political responsibility, you answer to voters in your constituency. In my opinion, it is not possible and good to invite someone who represents the absent minister to the political corps and who does not have that political responsibility. I can think a lot of things about the government in the three years I've been in the Chamber of Deputies. That he's incompetent, that he ignores the opposition. But now it makes me think she's a coward. He's gonna call in a deputy lady to hide behind her like she's behind her mom's skirt. It's ridiculous and it's not right. [[10.50 hours]] The presence in this hall is carefully regulated by law. For example, the Ombudsman may be present here by law ex lege and will be given the floor at any time. The President of the Republic may also be present. And those very specific cases where someone outside our circle must be present, such as: When we discuss the inflation report and the Governor of the Czech National Bank is present, we vote on it. Are we really going to vote, with all due respect, to the Deputy Minister who doesn't even listen to me? Really? Do you think that's reasonable? Have the courage to wait for Madam Secretary to be present. It took you three years to prepare that bill, you've done nothing wrong, but we're going to have a deputy, a clerk, a clerk on a political collapsing ground with no political responsibility. Madam Deputy, who do you answer to? Who do you answer to? No one. It's just that everyone has a different role. We're politicians. You're not in a political position. That's for starters. I will not repeat what we have heard many times, such as the World Bank Doing Business report, how we do badly, and list some exotic countries. We all know that we are in the state and how undignified we are in the statistics of the authorisation processes. Many of you, when you were older and built, were builders, so you met it yourself. But I will try to mention in three short circles what the new construction law should be after our trial. Thus, first of all, it should be based on some consensual, sensible and systemic preparation. And that's something you might object to, okay, I said I was a politician, so you're talking politically. But even the representatives of another body of state power, the power of the court, have made very unchoosy comments on this. I will quote here from the comments of the Supreme Administrative Court, which is supported by the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, doktor Mazanec, of 23 December 2019. Already in relation to the material intention of the present proposal for a new construction law, we have stated the problematicity of the way it was prepared. The Ministry of Regional Development, once again as its own proposal, presents a proposal drawn up by one of the interest groups in the field of building law. What is worse, the petitioner obviously failed to carry out a critical analysis of the proposal or to ensure the possibility of the opponent from other groups or their representatives concerned. The formalised inter-ministerial commentary procedure can no longer replace the deficit with regard to the circle of responsible institutions and the significant time limitation, and thus constitutes an unnecessary administrative burden on the comment points. The Minister in his opening speech - and I can appreciate him for his hard work, but there is simply no Minister for Regional Development here, and I wish her an early recovery, it would have waited, this meeting - to list such a list, to list who it had been discussed with. But the discussion doesn't mean you're gonna rush these people into one, you're gonna let them talk, and then you're gonna say it's done, so we're gonna listen to you, and we're gonna keep going. It's not dealing with things, it's not looking for a consensus, it's not a dignified preparation for recodification of building law. So while the Minister can repeat it here, we can repeat it all the time, it might be your chorus that you discussed it with everyone, but you just let them talk and you held your hands to your ears. That's one circle. The next chapter concerns that if we are really to reform building law, we cannot move the problem that is being created on one section of the process to another section. And if I speak specifically, if we have a problem on the area management section, it's not possible to move the problem into spatial planning. That's the second partial thing. And the third, the broadest circle is about compromise and compromise and finding consensus. Because the building procedure is the broadest and most comprehensive in terms of the particular interests represented in the administrative procedure. There are various public interests, private interests, and they need to be balanced and searched for some homeostasis. If this compensation is not implemented within the framework of legislation, when we are already adopting, or if a bill is submitted, where those interests are not balanced, the interests will not be compared in individual proceedings, in the context of the implementation and preparation and authorisation of individual construction projects. You're making a big deal out of yourself. I'll tell you why. If we pass this law here, we'll have elections in the fall of next year. We will approve a law with which there is no wider consensus and approved by the Chamber of Deputies, whose mandate is slowly ending. What happens will be that there will be further changes within the legisvakance. And the changes that the next Chamber of Deputies and the other government will be forced to do because this government has not been able to deal with the comments and simply postponed them by ad acta, so it will bring further uncertainty to the builders and to all the other participants in the proceedings and to all the other players and stakeholder in the process. That means our political position is when the government has waited so long to close its eyes to the comments, so that it can be completed. In order to use the remaining time until the fall of next year to alienate this proposal and to present a proposal that will not be outsourced, where the Ministry of Regional Development and Government will have their hands on the wheel and will not have it all done by anyone else without having clear control over the process and the outcome of the process. That is absolutely crucial for us. The consensus and compromise between balancing individual interests must thus also be between self-government and government. The proposal, as presented here, is a factual denial of the title of the Seventh Constitution and the Constitution of the guaranteed right to self-government. And I was talking about uncertainty. If this law is approved in this way, because there will have to be some changes in the legisvacation, and perhaps even a return, then the further consequence will be that, without a doubt, when this proposal is approved, and all of us, because it will go beyond all of us, even those who do not agree with it, who consider the proposal unbalanced, will be proposals to repeal the law naturally from various plaintiffs, there will also be proposals to abolish the laws of the Constitutional Court, and as a result there may also be constitutional complaints, which is a little thing being used, but the Constitutional Court law is simply clear: local authorities have the possibility of filing a constitutional complaint to the Constitutional Court. And that creates further uncertainty, and it is quite obvious that this will happen. This lack of respect for self-government is evident, for example, from the irresistible ambition of the Ministry for Regional Development to deny the individuality of each individual city, I am talking specifically about building regulations. In Prague there are Prague building regulations, they were created, it was an interesting story, and there was a document that I think can, where we can say that it is a good document, satisfactory, or at least reformable to the form that everyone considers good and owns. But if we say no here, we want one document for all the cities, just like we're sitting here, there's been another story going on in every town in the past. Each city was created differently. There are different traditions in every city. There's a different spirit in every town. Somewhere it's just a habit that the streets are wide, somewhere there are gardens. Somewhere the construction development was rapid, dramatic. It's just that every place has a different spirit. And that doesn't affect the mind of a ministerial official. That's what people in that place know best about. The deputies. Let's not detract from self-government, let's not detract from municipal councils. That's the worst thing that can happen. And if the government is planning on going on the warpath and fighting the authorities, so be it. It's a stupid decision, and the government won't win the battle. [[11.00 hours]] Finally, I would like to imagine a set of conditional proposals, and I would ask that the President record it and then vote on it at the end. The first proposal is still in the general debate after the speech of all the participants in the debate to interrupt this item in the presence of Minister Dostálová, so that there is room for all questions to be answered and the political position of the responsible gesture resort. If this is not voted out, then return this proposal to the government for completion. If this proposal does not pass, then designate the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as the Guarantee Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. If this does not happen, then this committee will be appointed as the next committee in which it will be discussed. Further, extend the deadline to 120 days, and if it doesn't pass, to 100, if not, to 90 and 80, if applicable. And also order this proposal with respect, and then I will read it into the next proposal - both these prints and the constitutionally-legal committee. We cannot pretend that colleagues in the Economic Committee and, where appropriate, in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development will take place. We in the Constitutional and Legal Committee have to look at this from a different perspective, from a more administrative point of view, let's say, from a more administrative point of view, from the administrative order's point of view, and from further legislation. I am not surprised that this is not being thought of by the government, but we want this to be discussed in the constitutional and legal committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Just wait a little longer. I'm asking if your application for a proper debate... Because you spoke for the club, so you're interrupting? And if you have turned to me to note this, I have noted it for our management, but otherwise, of course, it is a matter for the rapporteur to follow it, your individual proposals, because at first reading, there is no detailed debate, and in the debate you have already said the proposals. I wrote them down. Now with the priority right of Radim Fiala, Chairman of the SPD. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also tell the SPD what makes us think that the SPD wants to discuss this law that we are interested in discussing it as soon as possible. When I think as soon as possible, I mean until the election, of course. It is a set of things where, of course, various groups of people visit me as Chairman of the Economic Committee, who, of course, participate in the construction environment in the Czech Republic. They are, for example, designers who say that if the construction process lasts 10 years, what they're planning, they can't really do it any more slowly and maybe they exceed some standards, because in 10 years the legislative conditions are changing in a crazy way, they're changing very quickly, and they actually don't have a chance to enter into the construction process and change anything, otherwise the building procedure would have to start again and the approval process would have to start again. We are in the SPD - and a colleague Pavel Jelínek, who was a member of the commission that prepared the wording of the construction law, will perform the SPD, so as for the details of the implementation of the construction law, Pavel Jelínek, who obviously also has some critical amendments or criticism of this law, will speak for us. He wants to deal with it at second reading. But I think this discussion is absolutely correct at first reading. First reading is whether we want to discuss the law or not. And if the House decides that we want to, we'll just send him to some committee. I am convinced that for the reasons that I have said, the House would, and we have agreed at the SPD, that the House should discuss this law, because housing prices are rising relentlessly, and are growing because demand is so huge that it is far, far above supply. Even if there were 5,000 flats a year built in Prague more than it's built, demand would catch up sometime in 20, 25 years. When Pavel Jelínek and I were sitting with Minister Klára Dostálová, we looked at the statistics as the Czech Republic is doing, and we agreed that our password must be Bangladesh's password. Bangladesh is a country that is faster in the construction process and one place ahead of the Czech Republic. Otherwise, of course, we are attacking countries like Nigeria and Congo. I'm sure we just have to do something. We have to do something. And I'm sorry that some part of the political spectrum doesn't want to change those laws. People need to remember that they don't want to change them. The fact is, they don't want them to approve for the election to do anything about it. Let me say a few more words as chairman of the Economic Committee. You see, we basically wrote and extended the House with Martin Kolovratník Law No. 416 on line constructions. It's an amazing acceleration in building roads, highways, high-speed lines and so on. And it's completely unimaginable that no ministry in front of us and no officials were able to write and do that. That it had to be written by politicians who just don't have the resources to do it, who only have the information to do it. It's possible it's the same case with the construction law. And I'm glad the Ministry of Regional Development found the courage to make a difference. And I say for myself and for the SPD that we want to change that too. There's no way that -- and now I'm going to take it together with these line constructions -- there's no way that Polák are building highways at an incredible speed, and we haven't been able to get within 50 km of the border. It is also with Austria, where the highway from Vienna to Mikulov already leads from Brno to Mikulov, but not from Brno to Mikulov. And we all started out the same way. And Brno to Mikulov didn't even kick. I know it's a seemingly different amendment, that it's a seemingly different problem, but it's basically connected. So that's why I'm saying under the SPD that we want to shorten the construction deadlines, the construction process, that it's good for everyone, that it's going to lower the prices of flats across the country for the future. And if we don't, the young people just won't have the money for the apartments. They won't have the money. And it's the only way to do it. So if this government finds the courage to do so, then if the views and proposals they present here at second reading, including our movement, are relevant, legitimate, will shorten the construction process, will reduce demand by building more and building faster, then the SPD will support it. [[tho]] I just want to say, as chairman of the Economic Committee, that, of course, these people have been coming to me, as I have already mentioned about those architects who, after 10 years, can no longer intervene in the proceedings, and they know that what they painted 10 years ago could already be somewhere else, so I can say that if you want to approve or if you want to discuss the construction law on the Economic Committee, I say for myself that I am in favour, I will vote in favour. I think it belongs to the Economic Committee just as we approved Act No. 416 on line constructions. So for me, it's a thrown glove, we want to discuss it on the Economic Committee, and I think it's the right option. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u27	Thank you to Chairman Fial. Before we proceed further to the presentation of Mr Marek Výborný, there is a factual comment by my colleague Ferjenčík. And I will read an apology from the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga, who apologizes today for work reasons. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to respond briefly to my colleague, Fiala, who basically said, I hope I interpret it correctly: the situation is so bad that we have to do something, and that is why we support it here. But what matters to us is the content of something. So, in our opinion, this proposal produces so many problems and costs that it has terrible risks, and because of these risks, for example, we want a debate with the Minister, who we think is supposed to be here in person, because we are discussing a fundamental change that will cost tens of billions to transform the construction authorities, without the Minister's presence, it really is not happy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Kořanová, with a point of fact. My colleague Výborný is ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have to respond to my colleague Feri. I'm sorry he's not here. Mr. Colleague, I like that you have a crystal ball and you know that the Constitutional Court will abolish this law. I find it completely pointless to predict this here. And the second thing is, as you mentioned, dealing with individual comments on this law, I want to ask you where you were the two or three years we were discussing when that option was. I sat at those meetings, it was hours and hours in the working groups under Mr Kupka, and I didn't see you there once. Colleague Kalous went to college under the Ministry of Regional Development, we all sat across the political spectrum on those committees, and you weren't there. Representatives of urbanists, architects, geodes and others were present there, and the conditions and comments were heard there. And there were compromises over the course. So that's what I want to ask. Second thing. I was listening to the performance of Mr. Kupka's honey voice and Mr. Bartoš. I think we can agree, and I want to thank you for the fact that the digi laws have really been passed, because they are really well done, well written, they bring a lot of new and important things in the field of modern technology, but there are a lot of other things, and on that - I think my colleague Bartoš mentioned that there are a lot of things that we agree on in the new building bill. The only thing you have a problem with is the emergence of a new office. I understand, I respect that, but that's what this House is for, that's what the legislative process is for. Let us try to get through this first reading and you can deal with it there using the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Another colleague of Čižinský will outrun his party colleague, also with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u32	Thank you. I would like to respond by your means to the previous speaker. It's not like there's only a question of the office. It must be said that the Supreme Administrative Court has also spoken out against the law, that will be the court that will actually handle it first, even before the Constitutional Court, and the Supreme Administrative Court has very much warned about the structure. The huge problem with this law is that it will bring construction into great uncertainty until the administrative courts decide for the first time and the Supreme Administrative Court decides for the first time. I'm still gonna talk about it, but it's a big risk, and a lot of builders are gonna wonder if they're really gonna wait for the precedent sentences to end up with the law. Unfortunately, something like this has succeeded in Prague, that there was uncertainty about the construction regulations made for Prague. It meant a great delay in the entire construction activity in Prague, the huge costs of the very construction workers. It is the construction workers who are already calling for the proposed construction law not to be adopted like this, because they put their money in it, they processed the project documentation twice, then it turned out all wrong, and the construction crisis in Prague was caused, among other things, by uncertainty about the construction regulations. And that's exactly what this law is going to do. A huge uncertainty that doesn't benefit anybody.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u33	I thank you for keeping time on a point of fact. I have one more point in fact, Mrs Procházková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor. I would like to supplement my previous speaker and, above all, respond to Mr Ferjenčík through the President. She, Madame Dostálová, could be ill for, like, two or three months, you know? And I'm convinced - I wouldn't wish it on her, of course, I'd wish her very soon... Are we still gonna wait for him to come back here? I think the law is being passed by the government, and the government representative is here, the most eligible one, so I think that's enough for us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. We will now continue with the proper debate by expressing Mr Marek Výborný, who speaks in accordance with Paragraph 58 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 with the opinion of KDU-ČSL. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u36	Dear Vice-President, Minister - one minister - and honourable colleagues, dear colleagues, many have been said here. I apologize, Minister, on the other hand, as I was warned by the Minister, because he is right, Mrs Procházková, when she said that the government is represented here, I would say, by the Minister for everything as we know it. Oh, no, I don't want to downplay it, I responded to Mr. Vice Prime Minister's words. I am not questioning the role of Minister of Industry, Trade and Transport towards the new law of construction, but don't be angry with me, I have to join what has been said here. And in that sense, it's not just about Minister Dostálová, I think we all wish her health and it's quite logical, we didn't ask her to come here and put us all at risk. But it's a question, for example, the Home Secretary. If this law means anything, it means a complete revolution, or a revolutionary intervention in state administration and self-government, and that should interest the Home Secretary. He, too, should be able to respond to comments, comments, questions that have been raised here at first reading and will still be heard. I'm not sure that we can go in that direction, in the style that has been said here from some factual point of view - you're only bothered by the Supreme Building Office, so come on, let's flush out the first reading and talk about it in the committees. It's not like that. There are so many comments and comments and reasoned objections that this is far from one thing. In this sense, I join the KDU-ČSL Members' Club with those proposals that have already been made here. I am convinced that the comments, with all due respect and respect for the Deputy Secretary - but she is really not guilty here as an official, and here we are on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. In this sense, allow me also to respond to the Minister when he called on us not to do politics here. That's a challenge that's unrealistic. On the basis of the principle of the Constitution, it is simply impossible to do politics on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm afraid if you've run for office, you've run for the wrong organ. This is a political body, and no matter what we discuss here, any bill or any other House press, a treaty, we will always make a political - stressing political - decision. Therefore, for such a fundamental standard, for such a fundamental law, which we are discussing here today, such as the bill of construction, not only the opponent is needed, but the ability of a political person to react, and that is simply the minister. Secretary of State, but I've named the others here. Minister of the Interior, because indeed the proposal, and I could continue because, of course, the impacts of the construction law are also in other departments. Unfortunately, the lonely Minister Havlíček is also testifying to something. If you say, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, we shouldn't be politicating here, I'll sign it. You're right. But of course we do politics here, and it's nothing to be ashamed of or to be treated for. That, ladies and gentlemen, is not true. Let me make a quick comment, because many have said here what KDU-ČSL is reporting to and what would be signed, and then I will also end up joining some of the procedural proposals for the vote that have been made here and which, of course, give relevance. [[11.20 hours]] For KDU-ČSL I can clearly say yes, we also support and we are aware that it is necessary to speed up and simplify the construction process, there is no dispute at all. But I add two other things to that. It is also necessary to ensure that we respect legitimate public interests in this acceleration and simplification, and I will say more in a moment. And there is another important thing - we must build well and well. This means that for our municipalities and cities, for our landscape here, we do not create something that will produce negative impacts over the long term and it will go against the basic sense that we want to keep our beautiful cities and our communities here, and not to build halls etc., etc., simply buildings that will devalue the environment in which our families live in which our citizens live in the Czech Republic for a long time. I think that this is also very important, it is also necessary to take this into account when discussing the whole law, not only now at first reading, but also at second reading. I have mentioned something here, and I want to say something briefly about this - protection of the public interest. And here I do not question the fact that, contrary to the original factual intention of the law, the petitioner has made a certain shift, there is no complete integration of the public authorities concerned, but it has created such a special model, where some bodies are integrated, some are not. If I then take the House press itself, including the explanatory memorandum, we do not learn from the explanatory memorandum the criteria on which some institutions are integrated and others are not. So where is the limit of increased protection of the public interest and where is it no longer? I understand, of course, that this has come from some professional negotiations on individual ministries. But I'm asking, why did the criteria come up? Was it only on the basis of some agreements that a line, a line had been made somewhere where the integration would take place and where it wouldn't happen? I think that by responsibility, and we, as KDU-ČSL, clearly declare that public interest in the care of the landscape, the environment, in the care of cultural monuments must remain a priority here. If we really at least take into account the need for the protection of the public interest, such legislation does not meet the requirements for modern governance of the state, since, and I stress this, the protection of the public interest is, as a result, the interest of each individual and the procedure proposed here is, when I say this very slightly, at least recklessly. I would also recall the financial issue, because in terms of assessing the financial impact, we believe that the petitioner here is wrong when he claims that, in an optimal case, there should only be transfers of funds across individual chapters to compensate for the transfer of the agenda from local authorities to government, not for the increase of both funds and agendas. The State's financial contribution to the performance of the state administration does not cover the real costs which municipalities and regions pay for the performance and performance of the state administration in the long term. Also, in view of a completely different concept, then those authorisation procedures, where the increase or decline in administrative activities of construction offices in the future is not assessed, cannot be determined in the given situation or the financial complexity of the newly implemented agendas. This also applies to the financial effects that are actually recorded here. Much has already been said about institutional changes. Of course, this is not just a question of the Supreme Building Office, it is also a question of the degree of decentralization, virtually. centralisation of the state administration. And here I want to stress that the acceleration and simplification of the construction process will be due to the degree of digitalisation. If we actually go in this direction, if there's a digital file, if there's a construction portal, these are exactly the steps that can be the step towards each individual builder that will simplify and speed up the entire construction process in the finals. So it is not necessary to rebuild the institutional structure of the building process. We certainly do not resist some of the proposed changes. The fact that the building office of one or two employees does not make complete sense and that it is possible to come up with some adjustments here in this sense, I think that we agree with Minister Dostálová as well. We've said that in the meetings we've been to. On the other hand, there are some steps that concern, for example, the integration of DOS and the like, so we really see a big problem there in order to protect the public interest. And much of this acceleration can be dealt with by means of digitization. Let me conclude here with one more important thing, briefly said here, but it needs to be stressed. The risks that arise here, the risks to the municipalities, towards the regions, were very likely - and it was pointed out in its opinion by the Ministry of the Interior, the Supreme Administrative Court drew attention to this - and here, really, if the law had been passed as it was put forward, there was a huge increase in administrative disputes that would affect the administrative sections of the Czech judiciary. And when you take a statement from Minister Benešová and the Ministry of Justice, it is quite obvious that if the Czech judiciary is burning its heels somewhere, where the process of filing really fails to accelerate, where the idea really is so huge that the Czech courts here have a big problem at the speed of the proceedings, it is the administrative judiciary. So, ladies and gentlemen, if we're gonna suffocate the administrative courts completely, throw a blanket at them, then we're gonna accept and approve the building bill as it's ready. That's what needs to be pointed out. It is not only a question of the fact that, as the Ministry of the Interior warned, there could be a significant reduction in the construction activity, but it is also an impact in the context of disputes that will arise and which will affect the administrative sections of the Czech courts. I would like to warn you about this, and please, this must also be taken into account. In conclusion, I have already talked about the risks towards municipalities and regions, including territorial planning. We, as we are preparing a common comprehensive amendment, are ready to take these things into account. We are communicating with the deputy and councilmen of statutory cities who are in charge of spatial planning. And I think that these comments then need to be assessed and taken into account accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the KDU-ČSL, allow me to submit, if necessary, to the procedural proposals already tabled in the first reading. The rapporteur is certainly taking notes, including, where appropriate, the President. Given the fact that I have registered with the media the statement by Minister Dostálová that she is preparing a complex amendment to date, this leads me to a clear conclusion that it is then necessary to return the proposal to recast. Because if the petitioner herself, before first reading, gives his own or through one of the Members an amendment, then I consider it more reasonable and logical for the quality of the law itself, let the Minister and the Government rework it back and submit it to us after this amendment has been incorporated into it. If it's just an evasive move to get around the Government's Legislative Council, to get around some kind of internal commentary procedure, then I'm saying, that's wrong. This is not how laws are prepared, ladies and gentlemen! So we are joining the KDU-ČSL proposal to interrupt first reading after presenting all entries in today's general debate so that the Minister and other members of the government can comment on the comments. Second, return the bill to completion. I do not want the one in the media, I am based only on what the Minister and, where appropriate, members of the YES movement have mentioned. Get back to work. [[11.30 hours]] As far as the guarantee committee is concerned, here I was very surprised by the change in the organisational committee, and that this law is presented to the Economic Committee. I understand that there are some experiences and prowess of Mr Kolovratník, through Mr President. Yes, I understand that, but ladies and gentlemen, who brings the law, of course, is the government. Who brought the law to the government? Minister of Regional Development. Which of the committees gives a gesture to the Ministry of Regional Development? Is this the Economic Committee? It's not. It is a committee on public administration and regional development. And I do not question the need for the bill to be discussed in very detailed terms by the economic committee, so that Mr Kolovratník, as rapporteur of the committee, can also imagine and defend it, but in the framework of the guarantee committee, this law must be discussed as a guarantee committee for public administration and regional development. Just as it is important for the law to discuss the constitutional-legal committee, because the implications towards administrative law, and not only for administrative law, are enormous. So these are the proposals that I am clearly joining, as well as the extension of the following deadlines. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. This is KDU-ČSL's position on the construction law. Again, it is not our ambition to build a barrier here, a barricade, so that the law is not discussed, but we want a quality law that will really lead to this acceleration, simplification and also respect for the values that we have around us in our Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u37	Have a good morning. And now Mr. Petr Dolínek will be the last with priority rights with the club's opinion. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u38	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u39	I'm sorry. Sorry, I missed the time I took over the proceedings, that there was one point of fact. Mrs Kořanová. I'm sorry. You're right. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor. I'm sure Mr. Dolínek will forgive you. My colleague Čižinský is back, so I will only respond through you. Mr. colleague, I wouldn't mention Prague here at all, because some colleagues are touchy about it. Too bad your colleague Nacher isn't here because he'd be the first to react. I wanted to say one thing. As far as the Supreme Administrative Court is concerned, the representatives were at the meeting of the Legislative Council of the Government, and as far as I know, all the comments were settled. So please take care of the scooters, don't comment on that. That's one thing. And the second thing about the committee, whether it's a guarantee committee or other committees, is that this House will decide, so we will vote on it. So you, my opponents, can change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u41	Mr Petr Dolínek will now speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u42	Thank you. I do not want to stand up for my colleague Čižinský, but I would point out that he has one of the most complex development areas in the Czech Republic in his territory, and I think he knows a lot about it. But I also understand the criticisms that sound. I would first like to say, for social democracy, that at the meeting of the Government of the Czech Republic, we have actually allowed this standard to be moved here to the Chamber of Deputies. I'm sure we didn't do it with an easy heart, my colleagues, but the reason was quite simple. We must realise that the time has really ripened when this standard has to be changed, and when we take this completely pragmatically, we have clearly calculated that if we want to change this standard, and I think that ambition is here across the political spectrum, we can no longer act later than it is in these months. This means that I am certainly looking forward to the debate that will take place here, we will speak to it ourselves, and with this knowledge we have supported this law as a social democracy on the government to be discussed in the Chamber of Deputies. After all, you probably remember that in the past months within the interreort there, for example, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Hamáček settled things for the fire department and for his other files. Minister Zaorálek settled matters relating to culture or protection of cultural property and so on and so on. This means that we have devoted ourselves to this law and will be very close to it here. However, I would like to say that, together with social democracy, we have realized that we will not get more from the Ministry of Regional Development, that they have prepared a draft law professionally as they think, with the best knowledge and conscience, that it should be discussed here and then applied. And we have decided that we really need to add the political plane, this is the Chamber of Deputies, the first, second reading, and on a political level to create a standard so that it can be approved and able to function, knowing that nothing can eventually be adopted after all the months of this law being discussed here. We are aware of this, but we would like to be successful in creating a standard that will eventually be approved by the Chamber of Deputies and will, in turn, be valid. However, I would also point out that, of course, there is no clear view in social democracy of the quality and application of this standard, and it is certainly good to speak also for colleagues from regions and cities, because, of course, social democracy operates at all levels not only social but at all levels of the system of functioning of the Czech Republic, both in municipalities, regions and at national level. I do not remember, and here I will use some of the words of my colleague Netolický, the commander of the Pardubice Region, that there would ever be a law, the purpose of which would be a complication, delaying and expensiveness. At least a substantive intention and a explanatory note always contained efforts to make it more efficient, faster and cheaper. This is also the case this time with the construction law presented by the Ministry of Regional Development, and the Minister took it as the most fundamental standard that this term prepares. It should be noted that the recodification of construction law in the Czech Republic is without doubt necessary due to the length of the construction procedure and needs new legislation. I therefore justified this, and why we really want the House to be discussed here in the next weeks. However, as in the Czech Republic it is customary for a godly effort to ensure greater digitization and to regulate procedural matters, so we have practically begun to reform public administration and to liquidate its connected model, which has a tradition in our territory and is not, and that is to be said, the main cause of long building procedures. How is it that the same construction offices issued construction permits with the same officials five years ago in half the time? The answer is simple after discussion with colleagues from regions and cities. We ourselves, at national level, have watered the standard with various legal and legal laws, and the construction proceedings have been so swayed that there is really nothing left for the authorities to do except follow the legislation in force. So is this a reason for the overall change of organization and the construction of a new super office, or isn't it? That is what we need to answer here in the next few weeks. The government is presenting this option to us, and we need to evaluate in the discussions whether it is the right option. Me and social democracy think that it could be with the right grip, but the influence and possibilities of municipalities and regions must not be suppressed. Unfortunately, instead of focusing on the nature of the problem, in this case on matters of lengthy process, everything is being dealt with only by the office. And that's what we're gonna want to talk about here. It's not about offices, it's about deadlines. It's not about how many doors there are in the building, but it's about how quickly the press can solve the request. So it's about deadlines, procedural rights and obligations. I will ask some questions here for colleagues from the municipalities and regions, which have been asking for many months. How does the MMR work as a central government body in the field of methodology? Why is it that the speed of construction proceedings and the interpretation of certain provisions of existing legislation differing in different places at different offices in the Czech Republic? Why are we not concentrating on making the supervisor's methodology binding on the subordinate authorities? Isn't there a problem in the general procedural regulation, in the administrative order? And is it necessary to hack into the traditional functional combined model of territorial public administration, where municipalities and regions also carry out state administration in addition to self-government activities? It can be said that here we see an attempt to re-centralize and break the model, as regions and municipalities have become vacant. I would like to point out that this is seen more often, for example in the concept of the public transport outlook, which the Ministry of Transport has submitted to the government, that it expects the regions to withdraw the possibility of ordering regional trains for example and centralising it. This means that the centralisation is seen more often and we need to answer in this discussion whether we are willing to centralise some areas or not. The pace of the process is crucial for social democracy, and if this is properly explained, we can cross the debate to succeed. [[11.40 hours]] Now to the cities themselves. What I am going to say is mainly about Prague and the big cities, but, of course, it also concerns smaller cities. The mayors and councillors of the smaller cities clearly say that they would like to preserve the model, where the city can, of course, have influence, and the larger cities say that they would like to maintain the possibility of having their regulations. The problems of the valid construction law are most seen in the major cities - Prague, Brno, Ostrava, Plzeň, Liberec. Therefore, for more than two years or a year and a half, they discussed the necessary changes in legislation with the Ministry. The state is planning today that cities will not have responsibility, but the state will, but the citizens will still be accountable, not the cities. That's what we need to talk about again in the next few weeks. Whether we want to or not, more and more people will live in cities around the world, and therefore the role of cities will become increasingly important. Some countries listen to what is bothering the cities and try to meet them and make money. Here this government is trying, but we need to see in the coming weeks whether it will succeed in this case too, and the wise government will show that it can listen to cities. Similarly, as there is not one universal patient with one universal diagnosis and treatment, so it is not one ideal community, but it is also a varied range of cities and municipalities with their problems. Unfortunately, at this point, the Ministry does not fully understand this law and is trying to create a standard, or has submitted a standard that is made up of one ideal community. This concept proves to be inoperable and in recent years it has also proved to be dysfunctional, for example, not only in the case of Prague, but also in some other major cities. One of the specific problems of the proposal is the universal building regulations. Thanks to its own construction regulations, Prague can shape a compact city of short distances, Prague's construction regulations focus on the specific problems of the city associated with the disintegration of the city structure and expansion of the city into the landscape. The applicable building regulations allow you to create compact residential districts, which you all know, many of you have rented apartments there - Vinohrady, Letná, Dejvice. And the possibility of shaping its own construction regulations according to real needs is sought not only by Prague but also by other cities. The new construction law rejects this, introduces a single national regulation and allows only a limited and practically unusable possibility of derogations in the zoning plan. As I have already mentioned, it is not ideal for large development territories, not only in Prague, but also in other large cities, each has its own development territories. From the point of view of large cities, the new construction law ignores various needs, as I mentioned, cities and municipalities and is inflexible. All the municipalities are therefore in one pile, they do not distinguish between a small and a large village, between a large city, a central city and the like. Thus, it does not allow cities to plan as much as they need and what they need and does not support joint planning beyond administratively defined borders. The new building law is relatively bureaucratic and not all the processes that are designed there are accelerating. Everyone complained about the complexity of the existing law, the new one doesn't make it much easier. However, once again, why we agreed on the government to make it go to the House is that there is that effort, and we think that with certain adjustments, which the Minister has actually announced in the past days, this can be a success. And we think that if we try not to block, not to go back to overwork, but to work it out here, we can do it. The key benefit of the construction law is the speed of building authorisation. But if you are Members of larger cities or you are in them, in regional cities, you know that the basis of everything is the speed and quality of planning for cities. The plan is more important than the construction itself, which is then governed by it. It is in this sphere that the state most ties its hands to the cities that are dragging the economy of the state. It doesn't allow them to have their own rules, it doesn't allow them to have city construction regulations, it does. Thus, the situation becomes cumbersome for cities and their position weakens. The development of territories in Europe belongs to the competence of self-government, here it will cost more to intervene. It is not exactly a model at the level of other European countries. What's the solution? Of course, as I mentioned, the regions would like to maintain the transparency of the self-government and government and the role of the regions and municipalities, and the big cities would welcome the addition of the paragraph that statutory cities can have their own urban building regulations. The Ministry is separated from the city's daily agenda, and cities will know better what they need, city representatives, their management. And for the same reasons, cities should be allowed to have territorial plans that meet their real needs and do not set rules for an ideal universal community. Secondly, so that all territorial planning processes can be managed by regions, regional cities, regions and cities themselves and are not managed by the state alone, as it has been proposed so far. It will bring both acceleration and efficiency of the process and direct responsibility of the representatives. What do cities and regions ask for here? They are also asking for the increased responsibility, and it will, of course, then be reminded, at least once every four years. And also leave the opportunity to complete the work already under way on the zoning plans of the largest cities, such as Brno, Liberec or Prague, so that they do not have to throw the prepared documentation into the trash. And one more thing. What I am talking about, the Ministry defends itself against the regions and municipalities that it will be dealt with by implementing decrees, by other standards - I do not want to name them to make a mistake. But cities and regions don't exactly trust the Ministry. It's not that they don't trust the government, but specifically the Ministry. The reason is quite simple. If the Ministry wanted to support the big cities and regions, it would have been reflected in the bill presented, and that is why trust in this standard is being undermined by the fact that it is being rejected in a row for the last year and a half. Not in the Minister's office, not in the quality of the office, but in this standard, that the standard would fulfill it. The Ministry states that this will be resolved, as I mentioned, in the decrees and that they will remind those decrees more of the modern building regulations that Prague has and which are notified of than what we have experienced in recent decades. However, once again, if the Ministry wanted to do so, those mentioned Prague building regulations notified by the European Union, complexly under discussion and so on, are valid for six years, which means that the Ministry could have had more modern regulations for five years. He doesn't have them, which is why he doesn't trust them again. Not because the Ministry doesn't want to do it, but if, following this law - in addition, there will be parliamentary elections and so on - there will be work at all, or a regulation will be prepared, which will have thousands of comments, and those urban building regulations will actually disappear somewhere in translation. That's why the effort to make it work is in the standard. And it is an option, not an obligation, I must stress that. And there are a number of people in the Ministry who are afraid, our representatives from the regions, are unable - and I am not talking about the Deputy Secretary present here - to exceed his shadow, as they have adopted the norm for the past twenty, twenty-five years. And, as I point out, this is not just about Prague. It's all bigger cities, and it's all regions. To sum up, I would therefore like to say that we strongly support social democracy by going through the entire complicated process in the coming weeks. At the same time, however, we say that we are open to both the comprehensive amendment, which was announced by the Minister, which means at this point, which is here... the Ministry's approach represented by the Vice Prime Minister, so we are certainly open to this, but we are also open to proposals from the opposition. We see that this law is not right-wing, this law is factual, and that is why social democracy will treat it this way, with the fact that, of course, we will also defend what we have said in the past months, that is to say, protecting the process so that the important authorities of the government are not lost, but also that no citizens are left behind. Thank you and we look forward to working together on this standard in the coming months in the committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u43	Now, a factual point, so that Mr Jan Čižinský, Mr Leo Luzar will be prepared subsequently, and after which Mr Luzar preferred Minister Lubomír Zaorálek. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u44	Thank you. I would like to respond to my colleague Kořanová. I found out what happened at the Government Legislative Council, and it was said from the representative of the Supreme Administrative Court that if these comments were to be settled, this law should not actually interfere with the administrative proceedings at all. Mr. Filip Dienstbier said it there for the Supreme Administrative Court. So your information here was at least misleading. And as for scooters, I'm glad they're mentioned here, because here in quotation marks, we're dealing with these very important things, such as the construction law, but this is also where people in our larger cities shouldn't break on the sidewalk by scooters. And it's a good thing to deal with. And I'm proud to have dealt with this place. And unfortunately, the result is awkward because the House refused to solve it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u45	Mr Leo Luzar will now appear and will be prepared with priority rights by the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are not in a normal situation. This responds to previous speakers from different political parties. Because we are 101, we have ministers who are quarantined, who are even sick, and of course this discussion is not a normal lawsuit. We're in an emergency. And to appeal to the fact that we will stop discussing all laws because some are more complex, some are less complex, or some suits us or not, I consider this an unfair blow to those who try to prepare some laws and give some laws forward. And that's what we agreed on. The second thing is that this meeting is called for signatures. Of course, each political party probably has its priorities and interests. And if it is not abused on a mass scale, this too belongs to parliamentary democracy, and the possibilities are here. So we're here today to deal with the first reading of the building bill. And if, colleagues, you think that in two weeks, three weeks, when the Minister is already healthy, and we all certainly wish for it, the debate will look different, so you are deeply mistaken. It'll be exactly the same with the exact same words and the exact same arguments. All we're gonna do is move on a month or so. And maybe that is what is being played on and counting that it is a year before the end of the term, and it usually takes about a year before the complex law is discussed and brought into the legal state of the Czech Republic. As far as specific things are concerned, I've been here for a while, because many of the arguments that have been raised before me talk about it: that's actually not so bad, but there are partial flaws. But the partial flaws have been here for 30 years. Today, the construction authorities operate within the framework of delegated powers. They're in the villages, on the outskirts. They're working somehow. I'm asking: are we satisfied with how they work? I haven't heard any previous speaker say that they quite do, that they work. No. They are. They're working in some kind of system. And for 30 years, we have been unable to change this system so that it is more effective not to create black buildings, so that development projects with which citizens disagree do not arise, or, on the contrary, to create and implement more quickly the roads, motorways and other buildings that citizens demand. And that doesn't work. And here on the table is the first more comprehensive attempt to change that. Yes, at the beginning of the experiment, the PR agency was Mr. Prime Minister's agency, for which it is my fault, because this is not a law that can be applied by the PR agency, pointing out that the Czech Republic is on average somewhere behind - and now I will use the term - banana republics. It's not true, because, of course, building law is complicated. And you have buildings that are allowed within a building permit in days. Not in years, in days. But, of course, there are complex structures that sometimes last for maybe ten years. But this was somehow neglected in the initial impression of political PR and was said to be the main engine. Speed up, speed up, speed up. But now we are in a state where we can seriously deal with building law and we can seriously deal with how to proceed. But the KSČM I represent here will always stand up for the citizens. For citizens, for example, Přerov, who have long, long been waiting for the bypass of their city and for the connection to the motorway system. We will always stand for the citizens of D35, which is the only one able to lighten the D1 between Brno and Prague. And how long have we been waiting for her? And what are these construction offices doing along these routes? How do they work? How do the mayors, the deputies who are in these villages work? They are parties to proceedings under the existing construction law. I would really like to know what the statistics on the participation of self-government, which is part of the territorial management and part of the approval of the construction, would look like to discuss this construction. Yes, there are exceptions. Without discussion, yes. But my experience in practice, the long-term practice of the representative, is that although the council represents the citizens of its urban unit, its community, its region, and should be and delegate its person to participate in the proceedings, it usually remains an official, they are not there to defend the interests of their citizens as self-government. Then we are surprised that our traffic lights are growing one by one, because, of course, the norm is talking about something, but someone is not using the influence of citizens. Then we stop at various hall constructions and so on. It lacks the expression of the representatives, the councillors who have the responsibility to defend the interests of the citizens. Thus, the transferred competence of the State within the municipalities and cooperation with the self-government nowadays does not work. Let's just say that. And there's no law against that. Self-administration already has that option today. That he doesn't make it is the second thing. But what he does is he's worried. He's worried about how the new building bill will be conceived. The whole time we've been talking about this, it's in the subconscious of many. The first proposal that came and which was on the table when it was a new construction law was the proposal to separate the state administration from the government. This is a painful place for the legal system of the Czech Republic and we have been dealing with these problems for a long time. We can mention a misdemeanor trial. We can mention fire protection, road and administrative offices, local fees and other matters which have a function under the law delegated. And today we're in the construction law. And just ahead of us, the basic decision is whether or not to adopt a model of the Department of Public Administration. But no one can solve that for us. Not now, not in a month, not two weeks, at first, second reading. We just have to decide the 200 people who will vote on it if we separate the government from the government. And if we take this decision on the ground, then the model can begin to develop how to continue this position. If the current path means partial interlocking and connection, and let's not take the illusion that even de iure is separate, but de facto the pressure of self-government on the administration's performance is quite large, whether wage, whether personal, whether by threatening. I have also experienced this from my representative practice. Let's talk about the basics and look for a match. I assume that even as part of the first reading, a comprehensive amendment that has already been proposed here will come to the table. And I firmly believe that we will be discussing the basis, which means whether or not we are willing to allow the separation of government from self-government. If we are not clear about this, a cat dog will be created again to deal with individualities, individual things, but in the context of the whole it will be unsolvable. I can call it Law No. 416 on line constructions, which will really speed up the construction of those long-criticized line constructions of motorways, railways and others. But we must not forget that there are other problems. A zoning plan has been mentioned here. But the zoning plan remains the material that the self-government is dealing with, and approval and consultation within the self-government is required. If the government can't do it or isn't able to make a deal, let's not blame the officials. I don't know a zoning officer who doesn't want a zoning plan and wouldn't want it right and right. But it always ended in a disagreement, just like here, often presents itself, to determine the disagreement of self-government within the framework of what the zoning plan wants. These conflicting interests are huge. It also came from the mouth of my previous speakers - a call for the law to have a head and a heel. I can clap. But they forget to add that the head and heel that I want. According to my head and my heel, there must be a law. But there's a lot of heads and heels here. And finding that deal is gonna be a big deal. [[12.00 hours]] There was an opinion, and I was impressed. In fact, each community should have its own building law so that it can apply its historical, influential, structural, I don't know what principles and influences. Of course, as a result, it's stupid. But it can already apply this as part of territorial planning today. Why don't these communities do that? You often find in practice that this is a four-year term. Before the representatives get acquainted with the material and before they do anything, the term of office will be over and they are afraid to go into conflict and conflict within the framework of spatial planning, which will inevitably always happen. But this law will not solve this, because even in this law of zoning, the competence of self-government remains constant, because they really decide how they want to have the territory. I know that I finally succeeded, as I attended the meetings of the expert groups, found some consensus, I stress, some compromise between the conservationists, for example. firefighters and others who have the right to comment on the construction and construction proceedings as such. However, I stress that the future constructions and what the construction law should look like should not be the basic criterion that within a week it must be finished, that we simply have to be the first in the world, so quickly the building procedures, or, on the contrary, to be able to stop any construction in which anyone finds himself, who declares that a wolf or a hamster is more important, and we simply block and block and block. There's got to be a match here. And I will repeat once again that the KSČM stands for the citizens of Přerov, and their bypass, which is blocked in the long run, and they have run into problems again and will probably not be built again next year as promised. And these problems are ahead of us, and we're gonna have to be able to solve them. I don't think we're all gonna be happy, let's just say. We also have reservations about the proposal that is here, but these are elements that appear in the bill, and we can talk about them and we can try to change them. But rejecting it and saying, "we want to get back to it when we need a secretary here, or when there is another constellation," I think it's wrong. We want to launch this debate and the KSČM will support the entry of this law into the first reading and will support the extension of the deadline. We can talk about 80 days, I don't know what kind of suggestions are gonna come out here. We will certainly also support the assignment to other committees that will want to comment on this. But the important thing for us is for those citizens to know clearly and hear which direction we want to go. Again, for all of us, it should be a fundamental decision whether we are willing to accept the separation of state administration from self-government not only de iure, but also de facto and this model, and of course we can continue, for example, with matrices, which could theoretically be separated from self-government within the administration of state databases, why not. And we can go on, and we can apply this model of government separation from self-government in other laws. But the basic decision under the construction law is this, and if we don't find a consensus here, then the law that walks out of here will be the wrong law. And that's what I'm afraid of. Therefore, I call on all those who have taken part in the creation and discussion of the construction law to try to clarify the one question: will we go the way of the state administration, or will we go the modular concept that we have today, and only try to improve the individual sections? This is a fundamental question which bothers us, let us perceive the position of mayors, let us perceive the position of municipalities, let us perceive the position of the ministry, let us perceive the position of builders and those who want to build and have problems. Yet we think that we will not escape the basic concept and the decision and we will have to take a decision. So I would like to repeat this, we will support the entry into the first reading, we will support proposals for extension of deadlines, so that we really have time to deal with it. And we will be glad that the fundamental contradiction, which is constantly here and in the subconscious and behind the scenes, is constantly vibrating, we have clarified and wondered which direction we want to go further within the state administration and self-government of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u47	Now, two factual points, so, Minister, just a moment longer. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík is the first Member to report and Mr Marian Jurečka will be prepared. So, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to briefly respond to my colleague Luzar. I noticed he said it wasn't important if the secretary was here because the debate would have been the same. I'll try to explain why we think it's important. The basic thing is that the Secretary of State would put some political commitments here, which, made publicly, is significantly easier to enforce in that policy. We simply want to know what the comprehensive amendment prepared by the Ministry will look like. We want to know what she thinks about the fiction of consent and other controversial institutes in that law. We want to know how it works to extend deadlines. We want to know how he stands up to the question of the guarantee committee. These are all things that are important to us before the vote at the end of the first reading. And for this reason, we think it is absolutely appropriate for the Secretary to be here, because her word is important and has an impact on what we are going to ask and what we are not going to ask.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u49	So now Mr Marian Jurečka will speak on the point of fact and will still be prepared for Mr Leo Luzar. So please, your two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u50	Thank you. My colleague Luzar here spoke of the situation of the D1 motorway around Přerov, the situation of the construction and preparation of the D35 motorway and it sounded as though the legislation had not enabled or complicated the implementation of such structures. And I can't agree with that, because if we look at it, over the last twenty years or thirty years, constructions like the highway bypass or a large part of the Olomouc city bypass have been realized here, it's done bypassing Pilsen, bypassing Holice - and I can name - or the D1 motorway near Ostrava, completed by Rudná, connection to the speed communication to Opava - and I can name tens of cases of express roads or roads of the first class, where these bypasses have been realized. In the case of the situation of D1 in Přerov there are also other factors to be mentioned, and do not forget this. The route, which was designed, planned, also runs against the resistance of specific residents of the local part of Dluhonice. There is a fact that has long been known that the route leads through complicated territory from the perspective of the ground, from the point of view of environmental burdens, it is also known. And if an investor, at the beginning of that story, was also communicating much better with these people or organizations that point to some - and I think very rational - problems, including those of the people of Debtonics, who are really going to be harmed by a part of the community, that situation could not be at all. So we can't say that the fact that they don't stop is always a mistake of legislation, because we also have a territory where these buildings are being implemented, but it must also be pointed out that the investor, representatives of the state and communication with people, or possibly with those local politicians who represent these people, is not always a happy approach.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u51	So now Mr Leo Luzar will take action and prepare Minister Lubomír Zaorálek. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u52	Thank you for the floor. I'll be quite short. Of course, it's about people, but the existing building bill just works like that and doesn't allow the buildings to be realized. And that's the problem. And I can also give dozens of examples here, where one single person of x-years brakes and brakes the extended Rudna around Ostrava on Opava. I don't want to talk about how this has finally been resolved, how many representatives have broken their teeth in communication. And these are the problems that this building bill has existing, and we're looking for a solution. The solution is already contained in it. And as for the Minister's presence at first reading, I understand the argument that we would like to hear that word from ministers so that we can, as they say, catch them and say, but you said, Mr Minister or Madam Secretary... But how many times in other laws does this happen to us that the minister in the final word simply doesn't respond to the stimuli that were. [[12.10 hours]] It is a common political practice when the debate on this law is being held on committees after first reading, and then the minister has to defend his law. Among other things, I assume that the Secretary of State is monitoring this transmission online and knows exactly what has been said and the arguments that have been made here and will be able to respond to them and be prepared for them. But we really are in an emergency situation. Let's take it that way, and let's approach it from this point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u53	One more factual point - Mr Jaroslav Holík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u54	Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, allow me to respond a little to Jurečka's speech. Yes, we have a D1 motorway divided into two pieces in the Czech Republic. Out of the 500 kilometers, there's a 10-mile stretch at Přerov. And I'm going to ask, didn't that happen when I heard there was a bad floor? After all, this section was rejected on 20 October of this year. So I'm going to ask, yes, I'm Vice-President of the Environment Committee, so you're all going to expect me to tie myself to trees, lie under cars and prevent this bypass. But if you know Přerov, there's a very complicated passage through the city where there's a lot of traffic lights on which the trucks are standing. There are 30,000 cars in a day. What's better for the residents? A bypass where it's half-fueled, or the constant standing and the tons of fumes that these people have to breathe?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u55	The Minister of Culture, Lubomír Zaorálek, will now appear with priority rights and prepare Mrs Dana Balcarová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good noon, and let me also comment on the draft building bill, which is traditionally one of the most difficult standards. It is never easy in the House to discuss the construction law. And, of course, it's not going to be easy now either. I am now applying for this because the Ministry of Culture, this resort, is one of those that will be affected by the impact of new construction legislation in a rather fundamental way. So let me inform you about how I actually started to deal with the preparation of the new construction law at such an advanced stage. I would like to say here that perhaps it is clear that it is the Ministry of Culture that must take into account that in this new form the protection of the interests of the development of individual interests and, on the other hand, the interest of the public is in a certain balance. I believe that here in the House we agree that the public interest represented by the Ministry of Culture is quite fundamental here, because I believe that we all understand that we are all living in a landscape that is shaped by man and in which this material cultural heritage is quite an important part of our identity. All these towers of town halls, churches, chapel and forge, they're all quite a significant part, they're actually creating the quality of our lives, and that's how we actually get to know the place where we might feel at home. That is why I think that public interest is something that we should agree on, and so if we are making changes, it should be fairly fundamentally protected here, and we should also find a consensus on this in the House, where the boundaries that should not be exceeded when the construction law is being drafted. I would just like to draw attention to one thing: if we are talking about conservation care as something related to the problem of the speed of construction proceedings, I think that conservation care should not be seen as something that significantly affects the speed of construction proceedings in the Czech Republic. That means I don't take it that that's what we have to deal with priorityly if the construction process is to accelerate considerably. I want to prove this, on the one hand, by the fact that the size of the protected area of conservation zones in the Czech Republic is only about 1.4 percent of the entire territory covered by the effective construction law. So it's a relatively small fraction, although I know it's sometimes in important places or in attractive places, but it's definitely not a fundamental thing in terms of the total area the construction law is working on. And the second thing is, I'm not questioning the fact that landmark care - I've met myself in cases where people don't have a good experience with it. So I know it exists, but there's another way to reduce the administrative burden here. It doesn't necessarily have to be dealt with in the construction law. I'm talking about some protection plans. If you want to limit the need to issue permits, you just need to draw up plans to protect historic cities and places. I know there are very few, because there are no funds. That is why we are trying today to change the way we finance, so that this can be achieved for far more places, regions and cities. So that's one instrument. And the second, of course, which could reduce the administrative burden, is a new conservation law. This is another instrument that we can help reduce the administrative burden in this area without having to deal with it in the construction law. And those are the things that are going on. Although we have suspended the preparation of the conservation law precisely because it is important for us now to see how the work on the construction law will end, and from that the form of the conservation law can be derived. So I'm saying this, I'm saying that there's no need to oppress conservation care to make the building process go faster, because I don't think that's the main problem. I think they're somewhere else. And I repeat, so I'm interested in the public interest. I have been involved with this, as I said, already at a certain advanced stage in the preparation of the law, and I must say on the substantive intention of the law that I have seen quite a lot of risks and quite serious problems precisely for the protection of cultural heritage. If I had only to recapitulate where I saw the greatest risks, it was, on the one hand, that I was afraid that the new form of the construction law would complicate the possibilities of control or at all eliminate the possibility of controlling those automatically generated decisions. The second thing was uncertainty about whether the Supreme Building Office would actually defend its interest in protecting cultural heritage. Another particular problem I can mention is that in that form, in the material intention, it seemed that there was an elimination of conservation care, for example, when assessing demolitions in protected areas. Another problem that seemed to me to be at risk was that territorial analytical evidence was identified as non-binding material, which means that it can and may not be taken into account. And then one more thing I would mention, which I understood as a risk, was that international conventions - both global and European - were not guaranteed. So these serious risks led me to the negotiations that we had with Minister Dostálová, and those negotiations actually resulted in a compromise that we agreed on. This does not mean that at present the law is in a form that would not enter - it enters quite fundamentally into the form of conservation. The current proposal will bring quite substantial changes, especially in 450 protection zones including interesting, of course, Prague protection zone. There the Ggesce of the Monument Office has to go to the Supreme Building Office. That is, if I simplify it, one of the major changes that are taking place in the area of conservation in the design of the construction law. That is also why, as I have already said, we have suspended the preparation of the conservation law, because something completely new happens here. [[12.20 hours]] So it's a fundamental change. I'm saying it's a compromise. And the way I understood it, it's kind of the final frontier that we can retreat from in the care of the landmarks. With the fact that it is very important for me now how the next debate will be held here in the committees and in the House, because I take it as a certain agreement that we have made with the Minister for Regional Development, who will be respected in those negotiations, and a kind of line that will no longer go beyond. Do you understand? Because if this border were crossed here during the House negotiations - I saw such ideas, for example, that instead of protecting the current 44,000 real cultural monuments and 600 protected territories, it could only be reduced to protecting 320 national cultural monuments and 14 sites on the UNESCO World Heritage List, that if the protection had to change so dramatically, then I think it might be quite meaningless. So I'm just saying that all these debates are the debates that are going to be going on here, they're very important to me right now, and I suppose they'll respect what we agreed with the secretary. Because otherwise, I think it would not only be a risk, but it could mean enormous damage to the protection of cultural heritage in our country, which I believe is unacceptable. So I am aware of how difficult the debate will be, but at the same time I say, it is absolutely essential for me to stick to the compromise that I have agreed with the Minister, because it is the last thing that can be accepted for me if we are to talk about effective and meaningful conservation and conservation in this country and if there is a consensus that this is something that we must insist on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u57	I now have one factual point here, so Mrs Barbora Kořanová will perform and with priority right will be prepared by the chairman of the club ČSSD Jan Chvojka. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u58	Thank you for the floor. Just a brief response to the Minister through you, Mr President. I respect the monuments and their role. Because of my profession, I've been seeing it today and every day. This isn't about the administrative burden, it's about the extension because of her (?) opinions that are very individual. The clientelism and the corruption work there, I've met it x times. But the biggest, I think, key problem, and I hope that the comprehensive amendment or possibly the parliamentary proposal will prevent the conservationists from meddling in the classic construction industry. Of course, I appreciate that these are cultural monuments and other similar things, but I have met x-times with the fact that the conservationists really expressed themselves about everything, x-times happened that the building office had preventively requested an opinion from the Department of Monument Care, and this really shouldn't work that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u59	There. Now, then, one factual, yet another Mr Jan Čižinský. Still prepared with the priority right of Member Jan Chvojka, then I have one more priority right here - the presentation of the club's SPD opinion by Mr Pavel Jelínek. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u60	Thanks. I just might want to react. There was just something about corruption. And it was said in connection with people dealing with conservation care. Indeed, if anyone has - and you probably do - any suspicion of corruption, please report it. But, indeed, by this expression of yours, many people who are trying their best to protect our country's heritage can be offended and affected. And really, like you said, it's totally unacceptable for me. And I think you should really apologize to all the good guys. Because if you know about corruption, report it. Did it happen? And if you've announced it, don't insult others who aren't involved in this corruption.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u61	Mr Ivan Adamec, Mr Ivan Adamec, will now make a point of fact, so far the last one. So, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u62	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, I would like to comment on this area of conservation. I wouldn't say there's corruption going on. I certainly wouldn't dare say that. My experience is that they're so passionate about protecting those monuments that they're able to really make these builders hell out of their lives, but for the right reasons, because they really protect the memory and sometimes they make up too much. I think it would help here, if the conservation care determines, so should the principle that determines apply, so also applies. And unfortunately, that's not there. And if it was there, we wouldn't even be talking about it here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u63	The chairman of the ČSSD club Jan Chvojka will now perform with priority... aha, one more de facto just jumped in. Mrs Barbora Kořanová. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u64	Thank you for the floor. I hope I won't even respond to Mr Čižinský because there's no point. I don't know why I should apologize. I've dealt with these cases and so on. What I want to say is something completely different, and it is precisely responding to my colleague Ivan Adamec through you. That's exactly what you're saying. Not only are they passionate, but many of them also basically stick to the deep past and basically prevent the modern development of individual parts of the city, the square and so on. There are a number of problems that arise due to the expression of conservationists. And you said exactly that whoever decides should pay. For example, in Switzerland, if the price it sets for a particular product, e.g. the historical floor, the landlord, and it's essentially different from the current or original price, so the difference is paid by the state. Just so you know how it works elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u65	So now I have two facts here, so I'm going to be the first - three actual ones already. Mr Marek Výborný, then Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek and Jan Čižinský as the third Member. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u66	Thank you for the floor. I want to react because it's becoming a popular discipline here, that if we don't know what and how, I've come across corruption, and that's how I cut off the tip. I don't think that's really fair. My colleague Čižinský, my colleague through the President, said this to you clearly and clearly. So please, let's not downplay these things. Indeed, complex conservation care in the Czech Republic cannot, in my opinion, be dehonested in this way. If you've come across these cases, you're supposed to deal with them. Period. But to interpret anything else is simply unfair to those people who defend public interest in good faith, and this is the protection of monuments in the Czech Republic. And, of course, also within the framework, and spoke about it by the Minister, even within the framework of the new construction law, these things, in order to avoid unjustified delaying, etc., should be dealt with, with the support of the Ministry of Culture. But in this way, dehonesting the defense and protecting the public interest, I think it's wrong. I strongly object to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u67	There. Mr. Lubomír Zaorálek will now speak to the actual Minister of Culture. And Mr Jan Čižinský is still prepared for the facts. That's the two so far. I've got the two applications so far. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u68	I'll make it quick so the debate doesn't get too heated up. Because it's one thing if we agree that landmark care is something we need in this country because we care about the documents of the past and the ancestors we have here. And the second thing is -- and I think it's good for the discussion over the memorial care bill. Let's talk about it being as much as possible... so that the rules match the problems we face in reality. But on the other hand, it can't mean we're dropping her off. What we're talking about here in connection with the construction law is not weakening conservation care. That's what I think -- adjusting the way it happens -- that's what I think should be dealt with in the conservation law. But there should be a fundamental agreement here that this is an area that is of great importance in our lives. Protection of cultural heritage. And of course, you understand, that's something that is devoted in this country and a professionally huge number of people. But I imagine you can come up with a whole series of examples for someone who's too excited, or you can even come up with some example of corruption, which is probably hard to rule out. But that doesn't mean that this should disqualify the main idea that we need to protect the cultural heritage. And as for the rules, if they are to improve, I repeat, I am convinced that there are other instruments, I was talking about protection plans, I was talking about the law on conservation. But this should not be reflected in the fact that construction laws are severely limited. That's what I'm trying to do, and that's what I'm gonna watch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u69	Mr Jan Čižinský is now prepared for Mr Adam Kalous, who is still in charge of the facts. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u70	We're here in the House, we're Members here, so who wants to propose a change to, for example, conservation care, if something is more expensive than normal, so to contribute to it, that's part of the conservation law. However, I would definitely warn against saying simply: the care of monuments is a burden to us. Or care for our cultural heritage is expensive, and that's why we're gonna destroy them here and not take it into consideration. That's the wrong direction. Let us increase the Ministry of Culture's budget so that it can participate in what the monument care of the builders wants. That's the way to go. [[12.30 hours]] Here are a lot of ministries that enter the construction process with their demands, sometimes it doesn't make any sense. For example, a standard that puts cables in the pavements makes it impossible to plant trees. Norma is new, I have intersected Minister Havlíček in this, there is no attempt to change this standard on the way. But simply outdated, now new, but bad standards prevent us all from planting trees in larger cities, it will be very difficult to live in these cities and no one wants to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u71	Mr Adam Kalous, the last application so far, will now appear, which means that Mr Jan Chvojka will be prepared. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to respond briefly to the speech of the Minister of Culture of the Zaorálek. I would just like to clarify that the conservationists are not and will not be integrated in the proposal as submitted by the Ministry. Secondly, I do not know why it should resign to protect the public interest, if I could therefore define what is the public interest of the Ministry of Culture in particular. I don't think the new conservation law will solve the acceleration of buildings. As far as Prague is concerned, why should a monument holder have a stamp on the construction of every house only because it is in Prague? Even among the conservationists are activists of different types, we can say this calmly, and for example in Prague the biggest problem in dealing with the acquisition plan with the conservationists, who basically want to throw a building closure on Prague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u73	The chairman of the ČSSD club Jan Chvojka will now perform, and will be prepared with the priority right with the opinion of the SPD club Mr. Pavel Jelínek. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, colleagues. A colleague Petr Dolínek performed for our club. I think the show was very good. As far as his Ministry of Culture resort is concerned, Lubomír Zaorálek performed. I'll just fill in a few things, virtually. I will say the position of the ČSSD on proposals to amend the committee or to supplement the committee. As Chairman of the ČSSD Club, as well as as a member and vice-chairman of the Constitutional Legal Committee, I certainly support the inclusion of this press and of the press related to the Constitutional Legal Committee. I think it is, of course, a topic, a change in the law of construction, or a new building law, which concerns not only the speed of the building process, but also very, very important issues, and it is a question of deconcentration, or concentration, the question of decentralization, or centralization, the question of the relationship between state administration and self-government at all. These are things that simply belong on the ground of the constitutionally-legal committee, and our club will support the transfer of those two prints to the ground of the constitutionally-legal committee. Second thing, it also concerns the committee, that's the question of the committee of guarantee. Like some colleagues from the opposition, we who are from the coalition also think that the construction law and the law that amends the related regulations should logically, logically, belong to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, because it is indeed customary that if the Ministry of Local Development has a partner committee on the House floor, a public administration committee, then we should not take it by decision of the Organizing Committee, but we should respect the principles that work here in the House. This means we will support, if it falls, such a proposal to amend the Guarantee Committee from the Economic Committee to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. We think it would be more correct and logical. And I would like to repeat what my colleague Dolínek said, and that is actually a gros of how we are going to treat the law. I assume that it will be on the ground of three committees, whether there will be a guarantee committee for public administration or an economic committee, so it will certainly be on both committees, plus the constitutionally-legal committee, so for the ČSSD is a mantra, which my colleague Dolínek has already indicated, that is, we want, and I think that if any of you went on the street and asked people if they wanted to shorten the construction process, we want to shorten the construction procedure as well as 99.9 percent of people. Logically. And we heard from a colleague here, where we are in the list of all the countries. That place isn't flattering. We want to shorten the construction process, but we think that a better way than centralization and the creation of new offices is to change the substantive and procedural rules of part of the building law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u75	Mr Pavel Jelínek will now speak with the opinion of the SPD Member with priority rights and Mrs Dana Balcarová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u76	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a long-awaited law coming on the House's agenda. It's a construction law. Actually, we've been working on this law for a long time. We work as a college minister, where it's actually been at least the second year we've met, we've been reminding a lot of complexity. This law is really demanding, and I would say that after the Civil Code, perhaps the second most complex law in our country. The explanatory memorandum to this law states that according to the World Bank Doing Business 2019, the process of building authorisation in the Czech Republic is one of the slowest in the world. According to the length of the standardised construction procedure, the Czech Republic has been placed in 156th place from 190 evaluated countries with a length of 246 days. We really don't have anything to be proud of here, and as the chairman of our Radim Fiala club has already pointed out, we will be joining the African states at the speed of dealing with building permits, which I think is an absolutely unacceptable and unacceptable place for Central European democracy. Of course, not only does the Czech Republic solve problems with the complexity of public building law legislation and the length of authorisation processes. The majority of European countries are struggling, as are we, with a high degree of fragmentation and the resorcity of public administration, an unevenness of public administration at the level of the community, regions, state. These countries have sought complexly and are still looking for ways to make this system more effective and efficient. In this government proposal, many of these things are being dealt with. Nevertheless, we have prepared amendments for the SPD in which we would bring efficiency of this law to greater comfort for both builders and, in fact, local administrations and self-government, in the area of application of process procedures in the management of building procedures, in the field of digitalisation and transparency, in the area of proportionality of fines and charges for applying for housing and family construction. Part of the law deals with the course of construction proceedings and the organizational structure of construction offices. In this part of the SPD law requires a clear and pragmatic description of the processes for individual construction proceedings. As well as the different types of construction procedures set out, we ask that it be clearly described how these construction procedures will be carried out in a process, how the components of the construction offices and other bodies concerned will be expressed about them, in what terms and with what outputs. [[12.40 hours]] The decision itself whether everything under the Supreme Building Office will be fully or only partially, further, to what level the construction office will be managed at the level of the municipality or state, is in this case the question of organisation and the most productive application of the process of construction proceedings, which must be described precisely in the information system of the register of building procedures. It is important for a citizen to accelerate the construction process and the associated positive benefits, which are mainly the acceleration of construction with a reduction effect, or at least a halt to the growth of housing prices. It is important for our citizens to be able to obtain housing that corresponds to their income without an outrageous debt for practically a productive life. In this section, we will be proposing that the obligation to apply digital precision procedures in the construction process be already in the draft law itself and do not go into an implementing decree, which we will no longer have an effect on as the House. A clearly established process corresponding to the course of a certain building procedure, where it will be determined who, how, in what context, in what terms and with which warnings this process is to take place, which will allow a simple takeover by another official in the case of representation which will increase the productivity of the implementation of these individual processes, precisely described, is a system that will not allow delays or any illegal conduct. And that is the amendment we want to make. It is also stated in the explanatory memorandum that the level of building permits remains below historical averages and regulatory barriers to new construction are increasing the pressure on the property price. Problems persist mainly in the context of the enforcement of contracts, the acquisition of building permits and the complexity of the tax system. The Czech Republic has placed relatively high on the rankings of countries in terms of ease of business. The 30th place in 190 isn't so bad. It has placed itself first in the category of foreign trade, but, on the other hand, we are among the worst in the European Union in the category of enforcement of contracts and the processing of building permits. 91st place of 127 considered is not appropriate. Following this information, another very important area, on which the SPD emphasizes, is the transparency of the building procedure. The maximum degree of digitisation of the construction process can be enhanced by transparency in the course of the construction procedure. At any time, the building must have a clear overview of the state of the application, which the official is working on a specific part of the application and how long the part of the application has been completed, including information on the legal deadlines for the handling of the individual parts of the building procedure. An integral part of the public administration information systems relating to the construction process must be the notification process. If the laws on the right to digital service place great emphasis on the notification process, then we must also place emphasis on the notification process in this law, the building law. It is for any change in the building procedure, any impact on any obstacle or change in the processing of the application, to be immediately informed by the builder to inform all those who are part of the construction procedure in order to avoid any delay and unnecessary extension of the construction procedure. [[in order to:]] This notification process must be an integral part of the public administration information systems relating to the construction process. So every citizen who asks for a building permit must be informed of every step, including information about exceeding the legal deadlines laid down by this law. This is a request that we formulate and submit in our next amendment. In part of the tenth law describing offences, we are conducting an analysis where we want to protect citizens from excessive fines in the case of civil construction. While we understand the principle of unity of fines according to the offence, we still cannot impose fines for large development construction on the same level as for the construction of a family house or garage. So the scope of the fines must be adjusted not only by the scale of the construction, but by who is the investor himself. If he's a regular citizen, he can't really be the same fine as a big developer. Such winding-up provisions must be adapted so that citizens are not threatened with disproportionate fines and any enforcement proceedings when dealing with housing. As the last adjustment for the SPD, we propose to reduce the fees for permit housing, construction of family houses and buildings of garages and wine cellars. That's the paragraph, and we think that's right. Following the amendments made to the Act in the area of application of procedural procedures in the field of construction procedures in the field of digitization and transparency, in the area of proportionality of fines and charges for lodging applications in residential and family construction, the SPD is prepared to support the Act, thereby improving the situation on the housing market for our citizens. As regards support for the secondment to committees. I myself am on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I think that debates are already taking place in both the College of Ministers and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, so I do not think they would be listened to. And whether the guarantee committee will be an economic committee or a public administration committee - we do not have a problem with the SPD with either of these committees. If so far there is a proposal that it should be an economic committee as a guarantee committee, we will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u77	Mr Dana Balcarová will now appear and Mr Jan Čižinský will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I was very happy to hear the speech of Minister Zaorálek, who defended the protection of monuments here, the protection of the cultural heritage of the Czech Republic, of public interest. On the contrary, I regret that the Minister of the Environment agrees with this amendment, with the amendment to the Construction Act, even though it is this amendment that causes negative effects and weakens public interest in protecting the environment. I would very much like the Minister of the Environment to protect this interest, and not support the amendment as proposed. It is problematic for me, as I said, that the lack of protection of public interest in the protection of the environment and at the same time the restriction of public participation, which means that people will not be able to fight for their surroundings, they will not be able to comment on the constructions that are being carried out around them. This means that it is not only about the environment but also about the quality of life that people live. What bothers me most about it is that there will be unification and creation of one super office, a state building office, which will aggregate the environmental protection that the municipal authorities and environmental departments have so far had, as well as the regional trade unions for nature and landscape protection. [[12.50 hours]] And what will these state construction agencies decide? For example, it will be the removal of land from the agricultural soil fund or the removal of land from the forest soil fund. They will also decide on water protection zones, which is particularly important at the moment. They will carry out an assessment of the environmental impact of the project, so-called EIA. And they will also decide to cut down the trees, to agree to an intervention in the landscape, to allow exemptions from the ban on memorable trees and protected species of plants and animals, even critically endangered. I think that's very problematic. Environmental protection at 80 percent of the territory of the Czech Republic will be absorbed by these state construction offices. In my opinion, there is a degradation of the right to protect the environment. As regards public participation in the form of participation of associations, in 2017, public participation was weakened, and now, in this amendment, another weakening is proposed. And what is the argument for is that the participation of associations extends the process of building proceedings. I'd like to say a few numbers here. According to the analysis I have at my disposal, last year the associations participated only in 3% of the territorial proceedings initiated. Of which, in less than half of the cases, they filed an appeal. And the fact that they were suing was 0.025 percent. This means that this is very exceptional and this cannot have an impact on the extension of the length of the construction proceedings. On the contrary, according to the analysis, mostly the extension of the construction procedure is insufficient documentation and documentation provided by the builders as supporting documents for the decision. [[Cause]] I think that everyone has the right to a favourable environment, this guarantee also gives us our constitutional order, we should have the right to make decisions about our surroundings. That is why I think it is good that this amendment should also be discussed by the Committee on the Environment, so that we can discuss these matters there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u79	There. Mr Jan Čižinský will now appear, Mr Jan Kubík will prepare. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u80	Thank you. Building proceedings are, by nature, conflict management. Not everyone likes every construction activity and not every construction activity is good and beneficial. Nor does any change in the zoning plan or not every zoning plan please the one who lives around it, and not everyone is beneficial in general. At this point in time, the construction process is going fast and slow, and this is very important, because even the current adjustment allows for a rapid procedure. The fact that the current regulation does not allow for a rapid procedure is simply not true. What actually delayes the building process, the conflict management, is mostly mistrust. People's distrust of authorities, builders, neighbors, people's distrust of politicians. That's what leads to the appeal, that's also what leads to the trial. Then also non-communication. Construction workers don't communicate well with the people involved in these constructions. Furthermore, it is also a lack of documentation, of course insufficient digitization. The Ministry of Regional Development could have chosen which way to go. Whether it goes the way to greater centralization or the way to decentralization. And there's been a major mistake. More centralization is proposed here at a time when centralization has largely discredited itself. We have actually seen in a crisis situation how the government is centrally unable to function, and how it has worked more decentrally. But what will that mean, the greater centralization? It will mean more of the distrust, which already in some cases extends the building process, it will mean more courts, it will mean more time, it will actually mean more risk to the builder and it will also mean, and unfortunately, here it is going to be, also some absurd unification. Because if we want to have building regulations just exactly the same everywhere, it's going to mean that the building regulations aren't going to work really well anywhere. There really is a difference if someone is building on a green meadow somewhere in a smaller village, and there is a difference when they build in a city that has evolved into block construction, in a block building, and in the center of some big city, there are just completely different conditions, and if we have the same building regulations, then we're gonna make a huge mistake. All statutory cities could tell if they could create really nice building blocks and nice constructions under consolidated construction regulations. It's not like that. We have a change ahead of us, which is actually very risky. I've already mentioned it here, it was said here that I shouldn't even mention Prague here. Well, the Member's promise is that we represent all citizens, so the Prague experience needs to be mentioned, because the Prague experience is very important to this law. If such an important law changes, which affects so many people, it is very risky, it leads to great costs, because the revolution in this case is really far more risky than improvement and evolution, and rather than taking the old law, we add digitalization and move on. There will be great uncertainty, and I fear that even as we are discussing it, the great uncertainty is already arising at this point, and there will be many builders who will now be very careful to do their projects, because they do not know by what regulations the projects will be assessed, so they will not invest in them. I am very worried that the builders will not be the ones who will profit from this bill. I am even concerned that no one will profit from this, because the real solution would be greater decentralization, greater authority for self-government, closer to the issue to people, greater authority on territorial plans for self-government, but also on building procedures for greater authority for self-government. Our country does not need new top construction offices that will decide something 200 km away. Our country needs qualified civil servants at construction offices, as close as possible to people and communication between builders, people and officials. So I am calling for a building law that will limit conflicts, which will limit the courts that will actually speed up the building proceedings, because, as is now proposed, this will lead to a greater number of courts and consequently to a flood of courts and even greater delays. I call for national standards to exist, but for building regulations for cities to exist, for block development, and for greater authority and responsibility for self-government. What works is really getting closer to people, and that's what can improve the construction process. [[13.00 hours]] Thousands of comments, courts, municipalities, cities and regions warn us about this law. They also warn the building authorities about him, and the experienced people from the construction offices warn about him. As the standard is designed, I'm really afraid it's going to be a great disaster for everyone. I still believe that one day, even in this House, the idea that conflicting matters are solved as close as possible to people and that greater centralization is not the right way. Here is really the solution of digitalization, moving closer to people. Not distant and new authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u81	Ambassador, I understand that your performance has not been interrupted. Okay. So it'll be information for my follower. So now we have 13 hours. I'd like to call a lunch break. I have noted the agreement of the MPs that there will be only an hour's break and that we will continue at 14 o'clock. So, enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue today's extraordinary 64th meeting, where we are now in the discussion of its first point, which is the Government's proposal for a construction law, the House's press 1008, we are at first reading. We have interrupted the meeting for lunch in the general debate, where, if I have good information, Mr Čižinský has already finished his speech, so it should now be Mr Kubík's turn, then Mr Profant. So please Mr Kubík, Mr Profant will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u83	Dear colleagues, the need for a new construction law has been discussed for a long time, and so far the only result is 157th place in the annual Doing Business report from the World Bank. In this report, analysts assess not only the length of the construction procedure, but also, for example, transparency and price. If we look at the countries ahead, we'll see Mali where we send our soldiers to keep the peace. This location is a disgrace and I am glad that the government is coming up with this proposal that is trying to remedy this. Each of us who has ever dealt with building permits, whether privately or as a function. You know how many authorities you have to run around, how many stamps you get, how much administration is involved. And all the while, you're hoping that your clerk, who's dealing with you, might not get sick. Great complexity in driving is also one of the reasons why we do not build enough new housing, housing is increasing and why more and more groups of people are becoming difficult to access. Then there are such ridiculous housing offers on the market as half a garden hut about one room on the outskirts of Prague for CZK 10,000 a month. We celebrate every newly built kilometer of highway, bypass or renovated railroad. Everything takes a long time, there is an endless circle of recalling and attacking building permits, which not only delay these constructions but also expensive. I am glad that the Ministry comes with a law that aims to accelerate infinitely long building permits, ensure compliance with deadlines and mainly digitalisation. I believe this law will lead us to the 21st century. Moreover, the further contribution that I see in this is also the start-up of the economy, because the construction industry is one of the industries that is basically sticking to it so far, and it looks like this trend is going to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u84	Thank you. And now Mr Profant is in the debate, then Mr Kalous. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear almost absent government, honourable Members and Members, honourable public. [[Fun and laughter in the hall.]] I think it's okay for Members to follow epidemiological measures, but I really think it's not okay that there isn't a Mrs Gesture Minister here. [[Laughing in the hall]] [[A comment from the diaper.]] I get it. You called that meeting for a deadline, and you knew it. I'm sure it could've been called in a week, two weeks, and nothing big would have happened. Well, I'm sorry. Back to what I wanted to talk about. It really bothers me that there's no Gesture Minister here when it's such an important subject. It is probably the only big law that you have put forward in real life, with the exception of EET, which was so bad that you yourself voted to suspend it. I guess that shows something about the quality of the legislative work you're doing here. As far as the construction law is concerned, there is a big problem that the construction authorities, the MMR and the statistical office don't collect key data. They collect some data and information, but it's just completely from analog time, and it certainly doesn't allow modern planning and solving the problems of the present world. For example, we do not really know which proceedings are the most burdensome of the building authorities. They're large line constructions, they're skyscrapers, they're constructions on a complex base in a complex urban situation. What's that? In Prague there was a big problem to find out how many flats are built, what flat area, what the ratio is. We're actually getting those numbers from developers. At the same time, our state construction agencies allow all these buildings, but they simply do not record how many flats there are, as large, or as possible. What other spaces there are. Except, of course, the legal things, but that's exactly what this subtle division is, it's not there anymore. The state doesn't see who's behind the delays either. This means why individual procedures have been reaching out for too long, what kind of mistakes are there. The D.O.D. isn't even trying to fix this undesirable situation. They're not like united reports, so there are some reports, but really, like I said, they're completely inadequate. Plus, they're shattered. I really don't understand why it's under the government's authority when this one doesn't manage methodically and it's such a mess as it is. It is clear from this that the Ministry is making decisions based on impressions. And here the question is whether, if this unites, the Ministry, the Supreme Building Office, can do the same through it, so other construction offices really and methodically manage it, or if it turns out to be like hygiene, which is obviously completely out of control. Even if the D.O.D. doesn't collect the data, there are others trying to get the data, like Arnika. He conducted a survey of why he would not stop in the Czech Republic. Well, I guess anybody's gonna think it's because of those appeals because of the participation of environmental associations that prolong and disrupt these buildings. But it's not according to the data. The environmental associations entered 2.77% of the proceedings and filed appeals only in 0.46% of the proceedings, i.e. approximately in each two hundredth proceedings. And the rest? That's definitely not the problem. On the contrary, the analysis shows that for long proceedings, those that last more than 24 months, so that two years of construction proceedings, the reasons on the part of the builder prevailed. Missing documentation, missing opinions of the persons concerned, lack of consent of the property owners, or disagreement with the zoning plan. [[14.10 hours]] Even the best construction office can't solve your disagreement with the zoning plan. It's just that if the project is designed so that it's not supposed to be there, it's not about how long driving is. It's more of a question to the clerk about why the trial is longer than reading it into wanting to build a house in the field, or how the non-compliance occurs there. I saw a builder who was so surprised that in a place where the zoning plan didn't allow it, he wanted to build an 11-story building when it was just said that there were nine-story maximum. And all this time, he wondered what the problem was. I don't think we can solve these cases with another office. But the most striking is the reason for the missing documentation. Of course, the other problem is the parties, the succession proceedings. That's a problem we may not be able to solve. People are gonna die, so there's gonna be inheritance proceedings, and we're not gonna figure that out. And if the owner's consent is needed and the owner's not known because there's an inheritance procedure, we're not gonna help each other. It is actually interesting information that only 5 to 10 per cent of the proceedings over two years are based on such proceedings where the builder made no mistake. And speaking of builders, let's look at one of the biggest builders, and that's the state. She's asking if it's really such a problem not to issue permits for those really complex buildings, line constructions, etc. I believe that it is difficult, and I do not think it is easy to decide on the construction of a motorway or a nuclear power plant. But the economy needs much more smaller structures to be smooth. Well, if we take the ŘSD, for example, it's quite a major builder, so she's repeatedly unable to colonise the highways that she built. This means that she built them differently than in accordance with the regulations or in accordance with what she was given a building permit for. An example can be the D0, road circuit around Prague, where it simply did not respect noise limits. Again, it can hardly be the fault of the building law, the building office or anything. It's just a mistake that we crossed out the noisy walls there, and now that's what the courts are doing. Which, by the way, is the answer to why the courts last a long time. Because neither the state nor the state regularly respects noise limits. Even when the Supreme Administrative Court had the House press 416, the Act on Line Buildings, the Supreme Administrative Court wrote to us - I quote: If the explanatory report is to be a correct basis for discussing the intentions of the new legislation in the next stages of the legislative process, we strongly recommend that it be supplemented with information on the number of buildings and the length of the motorway and other infrastructure section which is currently operated in the Czech Republic without collaborating or without further key permissions of the relevant administrative authorities. The Supreme Administrative Court has several such cases known from its official activity, such as the southeast section of the Prague D0 motorway bypass, when the Institute of Testing is being abused for a long time, as otherwise it would not be possible to use the motorway bypass. The fact that we as a state don't respect the laws of this country really doesn't solve their headless change, but we have to look at what's wrong. This is really about noise limits at D0. That's really not bad. There are a lot of studies that our citizens are excessively burdened with noise emissions, and the state should certainly not add these difficulties to them. It is still good that we have Minister Havlíček, who can answer this question, why ŘSD does not discipline its constructions when they are already built. When it's more of an exceptional thing to build. Another issue of building law, for example, is barrier-freeness. I know the law doesn't solve it, it's the decree, and it's been waiting for years, because the current decree is not enforceable. This means that we have rules on how to build wheelchairs, but we can't enforce them. We do not have any authority concerned, in contrast to Sweden, which would be part of the construction process and would check compliance with barrier-freeness. I'm sure I'd like to ask you when we're going to correct this part of the building right, because the Ministry can do it now, that's a decree, and it can show us how well to recodify and how to get these things to work the way we want them to. Another similar problem is the issue of black buildings, but I will not talk about them here. I would like to talk primarily about self-government. The Ministry of Regional Development is ignoring self-government in that submission. However, in the world, in Denmark, Germany, Austria, the trend is quite opposite. Self-government is becoming more and more involved in the construction process and is not centralising it under the state. After all, who other than self-government should determine the character of the community? If there are tall houses, if there are large houses, how it's going to be built, it really doesn't work centrally, and citizens aren't curious about how the building in their neighborhood will be decided here in Prague. And that brings me to the worst part, and that's the city's building regulations, which are completely released. Because general building regulations are designed to design family houses and classical housing estates, and not a modern compact city of short distances that every modern city wants. We have building regulations that simply talk about how to build villages or how to build cities from the previous regime. It probably doesn't matter in a lot of places, but for modern metropolis, it really does. Prague or Brno simply cannot build according to it, or possibly. This does not lead to the desirable results of a compact city. I would really like to know why the city's construction regulations are being dropped. After all, they enable the city to respond effectively to its specific problems. I have experience with Prague building regulations, which are currently the only specific regulations we have here, and these allow us, for example. establish street lines and height limits. Whoever's never seen it, that's what it is. [[He's showing the material.]] If this town is completely random zigzag, it's difficult to build a sidewalk or if it has character. Alai trees, series of lighting, the city is similarly high etc. When the city gets a certain size, it really doesn't work without this, and even though we have the Prague construction regulations in Prague, it's obviously a run on an incredibly long track. Those buildings are being rebuilt slowly after decades, so the character of the city is changing slowly, and therefore it is necessary to set it up from the beginning in a good way. Prague regulations e.g. optimize the distance between buildings, allow building a block city, regulate parking capacity for cars and bicycles. That's also important. Of course, you may not be interested in parking capacity for bicycles in the village, but when you operate an integrated transport system, such as Prague and the Central Bohemia Region has ROPID or the South Moravian Region and Brno have KORDIS, you need to regulate it in order to park your car and bike and possibly. in what amount. Or, on the contrary, Prague 1 has a problem with the amount of cars, which is why it regulates it the other way around. He's deliberately limiting the number of parking spaces, because the cars just can't fit in there. [[14.20 hours]] They also restrict the Prague building regulations to such funny things as cesspools. When you have a cesspool in town, it's probably not entirely pleasant and hygienic. When you build a village, it just works a little differently. Those building regulations in Prague tell us what public spaces should look like, including lighting, crossings and crossings. This is where we touch security. Just well-lit transitions are clearly important for safety. In Prague, public lighting is normally built on the basis of private buildings, where the developer builds the whole complex including part of public communication including lighting. And that's where it's important that someone directly check in the building permit that these publicly accessible parts will be subject to these limits and quality. Although, of course, I understand that when you cross a field road in the village, you don't want to deal with the regulation of lighting. Last but not least, what Prague building regulations solve in Prague are engineering networks. We in Prague have long solved the problem of missing greenery. Prague is a relatively green town, it has many parks, but it has quite a few green streets. That's because there's engineering networks under the sidewalks. And they're kind of laying there at random, and then you can't plant a tree. You can put that ugly pot you might know from Prague 5, and put a little bush in it. That's in this picture. [[He's pointing.]] Here's what it usually looks like. However, Prague, in Prague's construction regulations, proposes that there be corridors for engineering networks and that there are other corridors for greenery. This means that the trees can really grow there, be a natural part of the city and not just defy those engineering networks and wait for who is ever going to cut down because they need to rebuild the sewers or the optical lines. And these are not all demands for the quality of the public area and the layout of the location. It's just that all of this can't be covered by one rule. And I completely understand that there is no need for this in many places in this country. On the other hand, I think that even the current law is wrong in that the regulations only allow Prague. After all, Brno, Liberec, Pilsen, Ostrava have already heard that they would also like their own regulation. So I think the trend is completely opposite. And once again, I wonder why the Ministry is cutting these rules. Does he think he'll suggest it better? Do you think that by designing this, perhaps, well for the big city, those small communities will be pleased to have to deal with complex regulatory issues? Let us leave complex regulation to complex cases such as a large compact city, and let us not burden small municipalities with complex regulation. Or, on the contrary, without regulation, we go back to the 1990s. And at the end of my first speech on this subject, I would like to sum up the questions asked. Dear Ministry, (1) How do you work with data? Will data collection be better? How do you intend to secure such data collection? 2. When the office is centralized, will it be more methodically guided than it is today? 3. Do you deal with excesses of state institutions, such as ŘSD, which do not discipline its buildings? 4. When will the directive on barrier-freedom be improved? 5. Why is the position of self-government behind? 6. Why are city construction regulations being released? Where has the subsidiarity principle been lost? 7. Are all municipalities to be governed by exactly the same regulations? Monocentric and polycentric cities with high population density, which fight for every meter, even stretched-out mansions with plenty of free space? Perhaps here, I see that I should explain it too, a monocentric city is, for example, Prague or Hradec Králové. That means he's got a center. The polycentric city is, for example, Ostrava, because it is de facto composed of several municipalities that have their own characteristics and as units are separate, which is not true for the monocentrics. There is a huge difference between a monocentric and a polycentric community both in how you create transport connections and in how you create greenery and what architecture you need. In that polycentric you can afford some kind of indoor satellite town, building new housing estates there. On the other hand, you need thickening in the monocentric, you need the use of brownfields and stuff like that. And you're not really gonna do that with one of the construction regulations. I hope, at least, that the Minister will answer why these state institutions, namely ŘSD, do not discipline their buildings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u86	Thank you. There are several factual points. First, Mrs Procházková came forward with a point of fact, then Mr Kolovratník, then Mr Feranec, then Mrs Kalátová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u87	Thank you for the floor. Well, I have a point of fact about my predecessor, and that's a few things. Right at the beginning, it was said that we called off the EET because it was wrong. That's a really wrong statement, because we don't want to burden small businessmen in the covid age, but we certainly won't give up. You bet! But back to the secretary. I guess the MP wasn't here this morning when I was on the subject once, and I said that the MP and the secretary could still be sick for two months, maybe even more, although I really don't want her to, and we can't afford to wait for her to get better. We have a 100% replacement, a vice-premier who certainly understands the law very well, concerns his department and is able to answer any questions. You know, it's the first reading, and I think we should let that law into committees where there's a really professional discussion, where there's no cameras, I understand that, yes, for political proclamations like "I haven't said it yet" and so on, but those committees are really working. There it is possible to say yours and really elaborate it and with experts sitting in those committees to discuss this topic. And, of course, sign up for changelings at other readings. I guarantee you, we don't have any luck for YES, or we don't wear who got out more than once, so it's my last time. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u88	Thank you. I would like to point out that committees are also public, so there may be cameras. Mr Kolovratník now with a factual remark, then a Member of Feranec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u89	Thank you for the floor. I'm trying to be slim, but I have to respond to Mr Profant. Mr colleague, I, either as rapporteur or as a Member, take very seriously the opposition, the opposition expert opinions of your colleagues, many of whom I respect and think about. Martin Kupka, colleagues of Čižinský, people who have experience from practice, Ivan Adamec I suspect from the position of mayor that he will speak, and I will listen very carefully to him. But I'm sorry, I have to be honest. You were completely out of line in some of the arguments, and you probably don't know anything about it, or I don't know who wrote those arguments to you when you're talking about how it's possible that the building isn't approved because it's inconsistent with the zoning plan. If you read the bill, that's where the deadline is going to be enforced after the new construction office, that if there's no action, there's gonna be a measure against the inactivity to sort this out. So if you read it, you'll answer yourself that this is going to be in the proposed solution. [[14.30 hours]] That Arnika, the survey you were talking about, she approached - I read it too - she approached about 46, less than 50 construction offices of statutory cities. It replied - Of the 46, the 19 didn't comment at all, 14 didn't go through any proceedings for more than two years, so the information was about 13. Only the municipal construction agencies are around 700, so you're talking about some 1.5 percent of the respondents when you argue that. And the last reaction to one of your opinions or arguments, the barrier-freeness is also in the current construction law, when you read it, is mentioned in the level of requests for a territorial decision, a building permit. It is mentioned in paragraphs which define the rights and obligations of the building office, what it can and cannot do and then exercise. You are right that, in quotation marks, it is only described by the decree, but I think it is quite standard that the decrees here respond to the European regulations as they change. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Try to read it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u90	Thank you. Now, Mr Feranec, then Mrs Kalátová, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u91	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to a colleague of the Profant who said what a small percentage of appeals are being filed by the associations. It's possible, but I'm gonna tell you the story of another very successful group that's been blocking the Přerov highway for 10 years. He is very successful in fighting for the interests of the hamster, unfortunately against the interests of the people, the interests of the population. No wonder they don't live in Přerov, so they don't really care that people suffocate there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u92	Thank you. Mrs Kalátová, Mr Profant will be prepared with a factual remark, then Mr Čižinský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, everyone. I will only briefly, by your means, take the liberty of responding to the previous speaker, my colleague, although my colleague, Mr Kolovratník, has said a great deal about this. But I can't imagine that a building procedure can arise if the construction office has a request for a construction that is not in accordance with the zoning plan. And now I'm talking about functional land use. That's the first thing the applicant, the builder, the designer is looking at. I can't ask for a building permit in the building process if I want to place a construction site that is not in accordance with the zoning plan. And that's been going on for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u94	Thank you. Now Mr Profant will respond in a factual remark, then Mr Čižinský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u95	Well, thank you for telling me the truth, that EET is burdening small businessmen. And that's exactly why it's postponed, as you say. I would be a little interested in how the construction law relates to Mr. Vice Prime Minister's department, because the construction law is not primarily about line constructions with which his department has something to do with, or those large nuclear power plants and the like, but the construction law is primarily about the normal construction that municipalities, citizens, etc. operate here. And as I was pointing out here on the example of the city's construction regulations, this amendment is making it worse. Then, through Mr President, I will take the liberty of responding to Mr Kolovratník. I asked when the decree would be updated. I know it regulates the decree. I do not demand that the law regulate it, I ask when it will be updated, because we know that there are shortcomings, and therefore I would expect us to correct the shortcomings in such a large recodification. And those numbers don't suit you. 70 authorities were approached, complete answers were from 42 authorities. Here's the analysis. And really as one of the reasons there are these construction offices, I'm just quoting, they're indicating a discrepancy with the zoning plan. That's what it is, and it clearly solves it there as a problem, not as something that automatically solves it. They've got it written on those proceedings that have been dragging on for over two years. Of course, I don't know the specific procedures, but the authorities themselves wrote this in response to this analysis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u96	Time, Mr. Ambassador, maybe log in again. Mr Čižinský, now. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u97	Thank you. I just have an incentive if it wouldn't be possible for a petitioner to respond to questions after some doses, because questions are just getting bigger, actually, from the morning. I think it would be better if it were to react gradually. And then the trial. I think that no one can really believe that when something that is unfinished is imperfect and is as complex as building law and related regulations, they let the committees know that it will end well. I don't think anybody in this House can really say that the committees will solve this, all the committees they should, the committees that take care of the public administration, the economy, the environment, that it will actually end well. If the proposal is imperfect, it really needs to be redesigned. Rework it on the basis of the discussions that are here, on the basis of the commentary procedure. Then give it again, and then, when everyone vouches for it, at least the coalition says it's okay, then send it to the committees. The solution that we really don't know how it is, we think it's half-stupid, but we're gonna figure it out in committees, so it really doesn't work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u98	Thank you. That was the last point in fact at the moment, so I would like to invite Mr Kalous to the microphone, Mr Adamec will prepare himself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, after Mr Profant's speech, I would like to return the debate to substance. I'm not quite sure he understood what we're discussing. For example, you mistook the luminous intensity of a street lamp with lighting requirements. There was a lot of that shit, but I don't want to go back to it. The Czech Republic is simply waiting too long for a total change in building law. Looking at recent history clearly shows us that going the way of patching bigger or smaller amendments not only does not help, but in most cases causes further deterioration. The process usually brings new responsibilities, new stamps, further complicates and extends. I could talk here about novels that were supposed to improve the unhappy state in at least a partial way, but they brought the opposite. I could think here about why those who were able to prepare and submit these changes in time have slept and put the Czech Republic into a trivial state of building authorisation and development of Czech cities and municipalities. And, of course, I could point out here that they are often the same people, or from the same political parties and groups, who, when they were supposed to talk and, above all, work, did not do so, but today they know exactly how and what should be in that area and what should not be. The need to accelerate the construction process to promote the competitiveness of the Czech Republic has been discussed for more than 20 years. Construction Act No. 183/2006 Sb. and continuously a number of amendments, and none of these steps did indeed accelerate the approval of construction. And the result? In the construction of motorways, for example, many European countries, including our neighbours, have outrun us. So what are the fundamental problems of the current situation? This is mainly about the disunity, complexity and atomization of public building law between a huge number of municipal, special and other construction offices and more than 40 authorities concerned. A common problem is systemic bias. Typical for the Czech Republic is the disproportionate length of management and review of binding opinions. Slabinou is a factually competent weakness of the construction offices due to dependence on binding opinions of the public authorities concerned and their separate reviews. We're still dealing with both instant and competent ping-pong among the building authorities. The problem is also the special-purpose obstruction of the parties, enormous legal uncertainty on the sides of all applicants for permission, as well as opponents, but also government and self-government. Therefore, so many cases end in the Czech courts, which burden them, and this, colleagues, is completely unnecessary. [[14.40 hours]] Today, 714 general construction offices, 606 special construction offices, 4 military construction offices, 9 mining offices and 4 other special buildings are allowed. The building must comply with 85 laws, according to 50 laws, the authorities concerned must ensure a binding position on the construction, under another 20 laws, to obtain additional documents such as energy performance proof, certificates, separate permits, noise studies, radon survey, energy assessment, exemption permits, and to comply with 15 other regulations setting out the requirements under which the designer must proceed. And I think so, and you all acknowledge that it's quite a mess. The changes that we will be discussing here will touch on them, and let us believe that at the end of the whole legislative process, five groups: citizens, authorities, cities and municipalities, investors and the state. The citizen should, after a change that should bring the declared one stamp, one office, one permit and one year of driving at most, also obtain clear rules that are missing today, and transparency of the process, as well as faster construction of available housing, which should result in stabilization of its price or, for example, faster construction of motorways, roads and railways in the Czech Republic, as well as a reduction in its construction, because due to the complex system, their design and discussion is disproportionately extended by years. That's gonna cost them billions of crowns. And by the way, some of them have a pretty good business that they're blocking everything, and it's understandable that the same people and groups are screaming today when someone's trying to fix things. The Ministry of Transport analysed 28 projects of motorways and roads in 2019 and it was confirmed that due to the lengthy and complicated authorisation process there is a fatal extension of the preparation of the project and the related substantial price increase of buildings. Small-scale builders have problems. It's been said here. They want to build a house, a garage, a pool, a fence, I don't know what everything - dozens of stamps, months of running around offices, thousands of crowns, for nothing. It could be different, easier. Without a uniform system, our administrative burden is constantly increasing. The fragmentation of material law after resorts is reflected in new and new obligations, which are not managed and coordinated by anyone, often arise from initiatives of different interest groups and often do not ensure the basic conditions for the stability and predictability of the law. The transitional provisions are neglected, the documentation is swelled. And let's not forget our long-term failure, gold plating, which also has a very negative impact on the complexity of the process and the resulting price of the buildings. From the above it is clear that we must not repeat the same mistake, so we must not settle for a conservative partial amendment, which will only try to correct some errors in the current system. It is long-term inoperable, unreformable, and our ambition must be to change it completely. The gradual evolution in this case proved to be a blind way. We therefore need to take a step in reform, which gives us a chance to do. This submitted amendment started to be written in 2017 and since then, and I am glad for that, it has taken up the preparation of the new legislation with its dynamics and after three years we have prepared a proposal for discussion. It is quite understandable that this is a proposal that raises public debate. If we look at the number of institutions, institutions, laws, ministries, offices and other bodies concerned, then this is one of the most complex laws that we are dealing with here. In this context, I would like to stop at two important moments, which relate precisely to the number of stakeholders involved. At the beginning of the creation of the Act, all ministries and other institutions were asked to find themselves space in their agendas for the acceleration and simplification of construction law-related processes. As feedback has shown, none of the authorities was willing to give up any authority, stamp or expression, the departmental view is simply a problem. The fragmentation of demands, their completely absent-minded coordination, rampant formalism and bureaucracy. In spite of all this, we need to move forward and help set a truly functional model based on justice in that rights and obligations are not attributed to who is stronger, but to where they really should be, so that the model is functional. The second point I would like to point out is, unfortunately, the literal fulfillment of the saying about fish that they do not launch themselves. As part of the discussion with all the institutions and institutions concerned and within the scope of the recodification, one can find a unitary element, namely that there are too many players in the process, that many should not be there, need not, or should be in a different position, and that it is precisely without this reduction that real change is not possible. However, in the second breath, these same authorities and institutions add that this does not, of course, concern themselves, because they are essential in the system and without them there would be a collapse of balance, protection of public interests and much more. Paradoxically the same thing happened here that builders are used to discussing their intentions, what is English called "not in my backyard," that is Czech for "not in my backyard." How typical. However, we are in the Czech Republic today already at the stage of the BANKA effect - build absolutely nothing anywhere near anything. I am convinced that simply integrating an official post into another structure of the office, such as the newly created one, will not endanger or lose balance and protect public interests. All these principles are incorporated into other laws and standards, which are not affected by the recodification in most cases and according to which these same people will continue to make decisions. The essence of what he defends will be preserved. Whether it defends it from one or the other office is no longer relevant. Their opinion or expression will not be taken into account, and this is important. But there would no longer be a need for dozens of stamps against which dozens of appeals and dozens of lawsuits can be applied. The important thing is that by merging the assessment of interests into a single decision, not only the necessary coordination will be ensured, but also with a substantial reduction in the current completely unsatisfactory legislative ping-pong. This is related to another important aspect of the proposed recodification, to which I personally have a complaint. Without a truly separate model of construction offices from the authorities and integration of the authorities concerned, a reform step cannot be implemented. We must return to this previously well-prepared proposal, which has finally fallen out as a result of political negotiations. I have thoroughly addressed the arguments, followed the public debate, which has often been a lynch rather than a reasonable debate. As former mayor, I have my experience. If anyone claims that a change in the system and a separate model will take away the mayors' competence, then I must ask what competence they will take because there is no mayor or representative of the self-government in the current model. These are fully within the competence of the state administration. The municipality's competence is reflected in spatial planning. Yes, there has really been a weakening of the will of the municipalities since 2006, by replacing a generally binding decree as a form of territorial planning with a measure of a general nature which, in today's form, allows an endlessly territorial plan to be attacked, and thus to break down the basic building block on which the whole building authorisation stands. In the approval of constructions the municipality was and is a party to the proceedings. So he can't be the one who makes the decisions at the same time. It doesn't make sense. Moreover, it is not possible to think this way, because the right to be elected is not subject to the obligation to have a qualification for the approval of buildings. These so often repeated claims about the withdrawal of competences merely confirm that in the Czech Republic there is very often an inappropriate link between self-government and state administration, and this subsequently leads to problems with authorisation, transparency and the same rules for all, with systemic bias. So what's the systemic bias? It is a situation where there is an employment relationship between an official person and a public authority, there is an interest of the public authority in the outcome of the procedure and other facts eligible to influence the official person's position on the matter by means other than legal means. This definition makes it practically impossible without the risk of criminal prosecution of representatives to conclude a contract with the municipality with the investor. That's it. And without systemic change, the problem of systemic bias cannot be resolved in any way. Building permits should only be administrative approval of compliance with legal conditions and standards. Cities and municipalities should be actively involved elsewhere in the whole process, a step earlier, in spatial planning. There is a hidden key for the healthy sustainable development of cities. Therefore, I am very pleased that the recodification strengthens the position of self-government in territorial planning, and I definitely acknowledge this change, however I believe that even in this aspect partial improvements can be made. Recodification of building law is the answer especially to its existing inefficiency, infunction, complexity, longness. In order to eliminate them, it is necessary to really simplify existing complex authorisation processes while maintaining the necessary level of protection of all rights and public interests, i.e. a fundamental change of the entire building law. [[14.50 hours]] In addition to changes in the regulation of both procedural and material, the overall institutional reform at central and territorial level, including fundamental changes in the organisation of the state administration concerned, as well as the revision of the existing mixed model for the performance of the state administration in the section of construction law, is also a prerequisite for such simplification and efficiency and acceleration. This is precisely to ensure the efficiency, predictability and speed of the administration's performance. The new public building law must therefore be unambiguous, simple, understandable, applicable, enforceable. At the same time, the new legislation must clearly define the legal responsibility of actors throughout the process of territorial governance. As I said at the beginning of my speech, we cannot afford to keep the current state of construction law in the Czech Republic. Even before the crisis, the effects of which we cannot even anticipate so far, the poorly-set system has threatened our economy. If we do not adopt the new law in its reform form, then we are in danger of further decline in competitiveness in the area of construction and regional development, further losses in the private and public sectors due to the reduced efficiency of the money spent, as well as to the threat or loss of funds from the European Union Structural Funds, because it will not be possible to draw on time due to the unpreparedness of the buildings that have been allocated. On the contrary, if we make a change and if we do it properly and correctly, then in the joint implementation of all the steps of recodification, it can be assumed that the authorisation process will be reduced from an average of five and a half years, for transport constructions a normal period of up to 20 years, to a maximum of one year, including judicial review. As I said before, the recodification of building law is not and must not be a cosmetic change, it must be a real and conceptual change, it must mean one stamp, one office, one repository, one interpretation. And also a license within 60 days and in the case of a review within one year, i.e. more than tenfold shortening the process from how really it works today. In addition, by strengthening their professional competence, technical equipment, unification of methodology and decision-making, the new structure of construction offices will significantly reduce the corruption potential in this area, which the Čech often complain about. I would like to stress that for the first time it will be possible to ask the building authority for information on what to submit to permit the construction and to obtain relevant preliminary information on what conditions for permission I should expect. I believe the builders will appreciate that very much. Today, construction authorities often lament the inability of builders to file impeccable documentation. It must be admitted that, in such an inconspicuous legislative environment, it is not the fault of the builder, but the inability to communicate to the builder simply, unambiguously and transparently, what and in what form the state wants from him. And that is the key role of the building office. This is the purpose of reform - predictability, simplicity and transparency. Despite the institutional change that I personally consider in the form of a separate model of government and self-government, it must be said that the municipalities will not lose any prior competence, but, on the contrary, they will receive a legitimate title to negotiate contracts with investors for cooperation. Authorities don't get far away from people, and they can actually stay where they are today. The state will take over its own employees directly below it. It can rent premises from municipalities and municipalities will no longer be responsible for the wages of these workers or the equipment of their jobs and other costs, only officials who process and issue permits will be really and completely independent of self-government. They will no longer have to fear that someone will touch their money if they allow something or not. Their decision-making will be based on legislation and professional qualifications. But for municipalities, recodification also brings fundamental changes. It will enable them to better allow their projects, whether infrastructure or various grant titles, which has been a major problem so far. They will also have a fundamentally better position in spatial planning. I must mention here another significant change that the recodification brings, namely concentration and appeal in driving. In the context of the review, therefore, the superior office will no longer send the builder back to the first instance, but it will decide on its own, and this in itself is a very significant saving of time and of the funds required by the management. I firmly believe that the recodification of the area today will not become a source of political scuffles. I would like to thank the Ministry of Regional Development for preparing the recodification and take it as a good basis, which can be further adapted in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u100	Thank you. I would like to call on colleagues who have shown unrest in the benches to make a point of fact, if necessary. Now with factual remarks by Mr Kupka, Mr Čižinský and Mr Výborný gradually. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u101	For a while, I felt that the foundations of a new religion were laid here, but they differ significantly from real reality and how it works in cities and municipalities, how the authorities decide. By the way, we all know the process is going well where the continuity is working. Building a new office is a real risk. Building a mega-office is a huge risk, which, instead of implementing the construction works here, hastened the constructions, so it can, after all, have exactly the opposite effect, as the study of the Ministry of Interior says - endangering the process of building proceedings in the Czech Republic. However, I wanted to ask one specific point when it was said from the colleague's mouth that he was therefore a supporter of the completely separate model. Does this mean that there will be another amendment, which means that the government will return and the very proposal for a solution to a completely separate model without the current proposal of individual general construction offices at municipal level? Does this mean that you will show your back to the treaty that was discussed here with the Union of Cities and Cities? Does this mean that in this way you will show your back to all the self-governments that you, through Mr President, have been doing a little bit of debauchery here, as if the current space was full of corruption and there was no corruption in the building proceedings?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u102	Thank you. Now Mr Čižinský, with a factual remark, then Mr Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u103	Thank you. My colleague Kalous started to get really rough here, and he first defined himself to those who, in quotation marks, are responsible for the delays. And I would just like to remind you that on 30 May 2018, Mr Kalous and the others rejected changes to the construction law, which, as my colleague Kupka has pointed out here, had just resulted in the extension of the construction proceedings by those hundred days. Here was the opportunity to vote that the confirmation in line with the zoning plan would not be on the edge, but it would be on those municipalities, that is, it will take, say, an hour, and it took three months. And I found that vote and, of course, I found that if the MP here is calling for the responsibility of those who are extending the building procedure, then he's just supposed to look in the mirror. And then there were a lot of great untruths. And it needs to be made clear that it is quick to build where there is a good territorial plan, and those projects correspond to that. But what is happening here is proposed to reduce the influence of self-government on spatial planning and that is what is the worst about the proposal, because without good territorial plans we will not have good cities and municipalities, it will not be good development and it will really be a great chaos, because territorial planning and the influence of self-government on it is the cornerstone of living well, building well and not creating conflicts that will be judged by the courts for months and years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u104	Time. Thank you, sorry. And Mr. Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u105	Thank you for the floor. Through you to my colleague Kalous. I really wasn't wondering what sounded out of his mouth. For one thing, I feel like he was defending something that wasn't like that at all. And again and again, here and again, this mantra, we're going to speed up the construction process by disassembling a connected public administration model. That, in my opinion, is a clear mistake! By the way, five years ago, the construction process lasted about half the time today. And tell me what happened in those five years that you can't do today. Well, because we're indulging the whole system with different legal and sub-law regulations and standards, and that, of course, makes the construction process slow. So the idea that we're going to decompose here, we're going to do the biggest reform of the public administration that clearly won't work, and that helps speed, it's just completely wrong. By the way. By the way, why did representatives of large statutory cities today, including Ostrava, run by the Mayor for the YES movement? Why did they say that, in the area of spatial planning, the proposal, as it was put forward, was quite bad, and it was very sharply defined against it? I'd really like to know the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u106	Thank you. I now have here again with the factual remark of Mr Čižinský. I do not know exactly what he will respond to, then Mr Kupka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u107	I thought I didn't sign up until after my colleague Kupek. I still wanted to comment on the systemic bias. First of all, when the Ministry of Regional Development itself examined how many cases this involved, they ran out of cases. And then the other thing. If we have a government and a government, there are two ways in which a construction process can proceed. One direction is to transfer it only to the state administration. And I am saying that this is a far greater risk from the point of view of different influences than to convert it, such as in Germany or as it is now being dealt with in Slovakia, just more under self-government. Because if there was a greater responsibility for self-government, then maybe some dishonest mayors who are making excuses for the government and really influence the government will lose their ability to do so. Because if any construction meets all the criteria and the mayor who can allow it, or the board that can allow it, doesn't allow it, it's clear there's something unfair. It's obvious, and the mayor won't dare. Whereas it is the shared model or the deviation in the direction of state administration that will make the situation about corruption and corruption even worse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u108	Thank you. Mr Kupka with a point of fact, last one at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u109	Mr Kalous also mentioned that the current system suffers from considerable formalism, bureaucraticism. I agree with that. But the fundamental logical foul is to address this criticism by building an even bigger office, because even more office is logically more prone to formalism and bureaucratism. Wherever you look at the functioning of the Bureau, this is true with absolute precision. The bigger the office, the bigger the problems, the more distance from people and material solutions to problems, and vice versa, formalism prevails with everything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u110	Thank you. Those were all factual points. We will continue the general debate. Now, Mr Adamec. Mr Grospič will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u111	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, I thought that I would start with a friendly and calm start today and that we would have a nice discussion here in order to know where we stand. And really this attack right from the beginning of my colleague Kalous here, how significantly he's looking to the right, that some of them have been sitting here for a long time and haven't done anything about it, so I want to point out that he's been a member of a movement that's been in government for eight years or seven years, and they've already done it, and the situation hasn't improved. I have to say... But I'm gonna save it for another time like it's not an item, this is really serious. I have to say, I don't think there's anyone here today who would say that our construction law is okay. I think if I ask you one at a time, you'll all tell me it's not okay. We all feel it. It's what our citizens feel. That's what we have to say. It smells like investors. Everyone who wanted to build something at this time knows. And I have to tell you, even the qualified civil servants of the construction authorities feel that way, because they're a little innocent about it. They just have to fill the letter of the law, whether they want it or not. And in a number of cases, they know that these steps are lengthy, unnecessary, and that it just shouldn't be like this. I've been actively following this since 1998. A colleague of Kolovratník said I'd evaluate it from the mayor's position. I won't. Since 2002 actively with a break as a politician of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. And I have to say, I've always heard there's a need to speed up the construction process. At the same time, I heard another thing - support for small businessmen, but that is on a different subject. And then I heard there was a need to reduce state bureaucracy. Well, we're in 2020, and I'm like, "What have we done?" And now I'm not attacking anyone. There were different governments, different groups, let's face it. What's become of it? If I said nothing, it would be relatively ideal. But it did. The situation has gotten worse. That's what needs to be said. It's just that the situation really is pathetic. And today, a lot of businessmen who build their own businesses and stuff, so I'm gonna tell you what they're doing. They apply for a building permit and risk building before the building permit comes into force. They're risking the fines because they'd rather pay the fine because the loss of time is so fatal to them that this is worth it. And we don't want that. That's wrong. That's wrong, because people should respect the law. We're building a state of law here. At least that's what I think. And I hope you do, too. So it's clear that we all know the condition is wrong. It's wrong. And our concerns at this point are just to make things worse. When I hear the enthusiasm here, those blazing eyes of some colleagues, how we're gonna fix everything right now, and that by setting up a state super office, among other things, I'm not saying that everything is wrong, we're just gonna solve it, and the situation is gonna be amazing, everyone's gonna be happy, and it's not gonna cost us anything, and we're just gonna go down in this state's history as a government that's solved the problems with the construction law. I don't think it's like that. Of course I have to say, I want a change. I want a change. I want it to work better. But I am in favour of not rushing into Parliament. And when he's in a hurry, slowly. Because all the hurried decisions will come back to us as a boomerang. I remember a time when an unnamed politician here said that we're going to bring in this legislative storm. We're the government of the suicides. We're gonna do the legislative shrink. And how did that turn out? You can each translate it yourself, how it turned out. The bureaucracy has grown and the building law hasn't moved. He's worse. I've been to several construction laws, virtually. with their novels, even with the new construction law, which was here last, and I always asked the basic question whether the preparation of the construction would be shorter than the construction itself. At first, the ministers and the ministers answered me, didn't they? Then they shut up. They themselves were not convinced that what they were presenting here would lead to a successful outcome. By the way, do you think an increase in bureaucracy is just a problem with the construction law? Well, I don't think so. It went through this state like cancer. Bureaucracy. And it's very hard to fight her. And it was right here that there were different interests, that if you asked the strikers concerned that they would be looking for excuses, why it couldn't be done like that, and that we needed to do it this way, and otherwise we would probably just vanish here on the run. But the problem is, and the way I see it, we need to say that we are going back to the debate that last took place here on this space in the House in 2000, respectively. Before 2000, when we were developing new regions. And then there was a really big debate about whether or not the Czech Republic should continue to use the mixed model of public administration historically. That's just the way it was at the time. In the end, traditions won. And they won, I would say, even rational opinions that actually building new state parallel offices, that it would probably cost more money and the effect might not be like that. But on the other hand, it has to be said that there are countries around us that have it that way, like Poland. Slovakia also separated it. The question is whether a small country like Slovakia is of small importance, but small size, if it can afford such a bureaucratic apparatus. But they took the liberty of doing so. And he just stayed with us a mixed model. And I'm really upset when somebody says the authorities are horrible that they can't handle it. We need to figure out what the mixed model is. The construction office is doing a service for the state even in the mixed model. De facto, it's a state office that's actually sort of conceived into a city office. As far as mayors are concerned, they must not interfere in the course of the proceedings. They can't influence the controls. We already know a lot of cases where it came out and there were severe repression, overcoming the powers of public officials, and so on. It is true that, of course, at the construction office, the officials, and at other state offices, know that there is a vision of the city, there is a goal and that, of course, every office has certain boundaries where it can decide either from the left end or from the right end. But that's not what I want to talk about. [[15.10 hours]] Now I'm gonna say one thing. I'm sorry that Minister Dostálová is ill, and I wish her an early recovery, and I don't wish anyone this Coronavirus. I'm sorry she's not here because I wanted to ask her if she's convinced that this is the only way. I don't mind having the Prime Minister present it for the government, so in the end, he's the right person to be responsible for the government right now. But maybe if there were more ministers here, because the construction law goes through the cross-section of human activities, it's not true that it doesn't concern the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Industry, it's just not true, let's pour some pure wine. He actually concerns almost everyday human activity in all areas. Well, I'm sorry I couldn't ask her. And maybe I'll ask her this, if she hears it, she listens to us. Madam Secretary, please answer me this question: Are you convinced that this way of legislative change will really lead to anyone wanting to build that the preparation of the construction will be shorter than its own implementation? It's very important to me, because I'm not convinced about it right now. Well, about what we've got ahead of us now and what we're supposed to be dealing with in the next few months. I firmly believe that if we do not return this to the government to recast, I understand that, simply, the coalition has such an idea that this bill is philosophically correct, so I strongly doubt it, and that it will therefore give us all enough time to go over it and see if all the steps of the bill are, I would say, in line with what some colleagues here have been defending it. I don't think there's any rush, I repeat. I've seen the Home Office's opposing report. I don't understand a bit. Actually, one government, two ministries. And I hope the report is legal, it's not some kind of leak from the Home Office. But I suggest you read the report, it's worth it. And I take it completely with cold sense. So if it costs us that much and there are such risks, it's a serious warning. A really serious warning. And as far as what's left here is that the city authorities are gonna transfer the officials to give them computers, rooms. Well, don't be wrong, that's not how it works. This was already shown when the regions were formed, the transformation was not costless at all. And cities and communities can't just hand something over for free to somebody, they just can't do it, we have different laws for that, and all the mayors know it. So I'd like to hear the Home Secretary, too, and I'm sorry he's not here, because the report doesn't seem too good for me. And then allow me one more piece of my long-term practice as a member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Every law has its philosophy, its spirit. I guess we can all agree with that. Do you really think we can change the philosophy, the spirit of the law with amendments? You really think so? I don't. I just can't. And now we're at the beginning when we say that we're going to fight a mixed model, that we're going to build an office that I have some doubts about because I know how some state authorities work like that, and they have these workplaces, like, up to individual municipalities. Or if we don't do it by removing the bureaucratic obstacles and some of the things that are quoted in that bill that are very good, we are implementing into the current state of the mixed model. I would definitely see this as safer. It's my opinion, of course, that will be decided by the vote. It's up to us at the moment. But I have to say, every rush comes back. He's really coming back. And you guys today, what you have in mind is that everything is covered in the sun, that it's prepared completely luxuriously, and you're going to vote for it, so remember that when it goes into practice, when it turns out how it actually works. I'm saying you're not supposed to push, because when you push too hard, the saw slides and cuts you badly. And for my short performance at the end, let me quote one more sentence, which I have always said in connection with this law, with building law, and even regarding the issue of construction in the Czech Republic. We don't want it to turn out the way certain Soviet leaders said: we meant well, but it turned out the same way we always did... So please, this isn't the way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u112	Thank you. A real comment will be made by Mr Čižinský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u113	Thank you. I have just found the data with regard to Mr Kalous's speech. So systemic bias was solved in the Ministry of Regional Development data from 28,500 cases in 100 cases, which is 0.6%. Then it was said here how quickly it would be allowed. But if a Member should say which standards are abolished, which requirements are abolished, he would have to admit that, as proposed, no requirement is abolished, no law is abolished, that is, all those requirements will have to be met, so it will not be allowed faster, it will be interrupted faster and rejected faster. That's the result. And then I really have to stand up for the construction authorities. What Mr Kalous here said about building offices and the impossibility of consulting matters is total nonsense. In § 21 of the current law, this is even legislative. And the construction authorities are very patient, very willing, at least those that work well, consult, consult and consult. And it is the authorities that consult that allow it very quickly as well. That means the consultations are coming back to them because they don't have to interrupt and deny. So it's running normally and we're not really discovering anything that doesn't exist here. It exists in the current modification and it normally works.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u114	Thank you. And we will continue the general debate. Now, Mr Grospič, Mr Bendl will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u115	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, allow me, too, just a few more comments in this over-the-counter debate on this law. I am, of course, struck by the fact that has been raised here many times, how such a serious codification is presented to the Chamber of Deputies, who is actually presenting it and why it does not go in the proper legislative way and is not presented in a proper process. That also follows my question, which I think I am referring to the Vice-President of the Government. On 28 June at Meeting No 239 The Government's Legislative Council has ordered certain conditions and matters to be completed in the draft new construction law submitted, then at its next meeting of 6 and 7 August, it has ordered the Government to submit it and to move it into the legislative process by the Government if its comments are accepted and incorporated. I never knew whether the Government had accepted these comments from the Legislative Council and whether they had been incorporated or not in the proposal that we have before us on the table today. [[15.20 hours]] Then I would like to say that we should also pour a little pure wine and realize that this is not a long-term matter, where there is a new or old-fashioned construction law and when we have adopted some relatively fundamental reform of the public administration, because this is where Law No. 314/2002 Sb., when about 205 municipalities with extended scope were established, so-called the third-degree municipalities, and most of them, or all of them, had construction offices. In addition, the construction authorities had municipalities II. degrees and some municipalities had construction offices and have construction offices that operate only in the territory of their municipalities, i.e. do not apply to the territory of other municipalities. Thus, it must be seen that this reform has already been carried out in part here, and workers from the construction offices have been earmarked as officials entrusted with the performance of state administration only dislocated, such as the performance of the registers, such as the exercise of trade licenses, such as the performance in the field of education at delegated offices III. degrees, in the same way as any other of these offices. As for the construction law itself, I would like to say here that the current construction law has been adopted not too far away in the future (?), although I recognise that 14 years is 14 years old, 14 March 2006 as Act No. 183/2006 Coll. He passed, there is no doubt about it, a number of amendments and a number of developments. However, it must also be said whether the form presented by the present building law is the happiest. When we realize, in fact, that we, well, will take this thing and attract it to special regional authorities, however, something will still remain preserved in the municipalities, we will create, and, on the contrary, we will not go contrary to what is territorial management, spatial planning, which in a way must remain under the authority of municipalities and construction proceedings, and on the contrary, we will claim and pretend that we are simplifying the matter, so in fact, and here it has been said from my predecessors and from my previous speaker, we actually observe all the obligations that the citizen will have, or builder, all the obligatory stamps. So we're just going to take them from some construction offices now and create separate structures for the authorities covered by the Supreme Building Office, which will be directly run by the government and whose representative will be the government appointed. [[unintelligible]] I don't think that's the happiest way. I am in favour of simplifying the construction process, but this does not endanger the safety of buildings and the safety of citizens, i.e. users of these buildings. I am in favour of speeding up the construction process in terms of infrastructure. But that doesn't solve the problem of developers. This does not address the problem of speculation with land prices and this does not address the problem of current territorial plans, which are to the extent and competence of individual municipalities. So, if we move this law to first reading today, if the deadline for hearing it extends to 90 days, this does not mean that these comments and these material phenomena will be removed. [[second]] And the new building law itself will not remove them either. And it doesn't remove speculation and it doesn't remove the things that weigh the most on construction workers. At this point in time, I think it is necessary to judge the building office individually from each case. But I don't think it's right to go the way of creating a super-construction office, like financial administrations, social security administrations, that it will make the situation easier for ordinary citizens and bring public administration closer specifically to it and make life easier for them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u116	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Kalous.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u117	I am sorry, I would only react very briefly to Mr Čižinský by means of you to those numbers about systemic bias. Here are the numbers, what you said here, very misleading. Systemic bias has a total of three characters. The employment ratio of the official person to the public body, secondly the interest of the public body in the outcome of the procedure and, thirdly, other facts eligible to influence the official person's position. And the numbers that you said here, that's where only the stimulus was evaluated. That means a whole series of expressions of systemic bias, as I said here, will not be reflected in the proceedings, because those people are simply afraid to initiate a complaint against their employer. So I don't know how a construction office works on the city parts where you're mayor, I guess it works well there, but according to one functioning office, you just can't evaluate the whole thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u118	Thank you. I must allow myself to point out from my position that we should report to the actual remarks on the speeches that have already taken place, but I understand that this is actually faster. Mr Čižinský, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u119	Thank you. Only through the President, Mr Member, systemic bias is something else. Systemic bias is not that the employee of the construction office complains. The systemic bias is that the one who's got something to do with the building office is complaining. Whoever's asking for a building permit or one that's against the building permit. And he's pleading. That means if there's only a hundred cases, that means the problem is very small. You actually mentioned it as if it were about the employees of the construction offices or the city hall employees. No, it's about that, it's completely different. It concerns those people who are involved in the construction process, most often, or some associations who complain about the fact that the officials make the decisions in a biased manner. That means it's exactly the opposite of what you mentioned.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u120	Thank you. Mr Bendl is now in the debate and Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u121	Good day, colleagues, colleagues. I'd like to respond to what was said here a minute ago, before I even put the whole problem, as I feel it. We'll never get rid of that human factor anyway. It doesn't matter if the clerk is part of the public administration, or if he works in the village or on the county, or if he is part of a purely state organization or state office. He's just gonna want to help or he's not gonna want to help. He'll either want to help falsely, or he'll want to help in a good way. We will not remove the human factor by transferring the agenda from cities and municipalities or, where appropriate, regions and making it a state office. We can't get rid of him. We'll get rid of it with guts, a system solution, so that the clerk can't do it. But to do that, I can sit where he sits, I don't have to spend any more huge funds that will have to be reckoned with if he's committed what's being presented here now in the new building bill. The law is truly revolutionary. That's why I don't like the way he's presented. The fact that they have to represent the ministers here, or the Ministry of Regional Development in this case, Madam Secretary, seems like nonsenses to me. The Deputy Minister of the Interior would have to sit here anyway. And other individuals. But as you can see for yourself and feel for yourself, we don't need them. Because what we've been talking about most of the time is the philosophy of the law. The way he's conceived. How to improve the agenda and what to do to make the construction process faster if possible. We should also talk about how it is possible that somewhere it is possible and somewhere it cannot, for what reasons it is and why, possibly to remove individualities. We are really trying, or the proposal that is coming is to change the system of functioning public administration. I've read the opposition report from the Ministry of the Interior, and I'm very interested in how much the Ministry of the Interior is claiming it or not. Because the arguments that are there are factual, unpolitical. [[15.30 hours]] The fact that you want or are proposing to transfer about 12,000 employees from municipalities, cities and regions, Mr Kalous, by your means, Mr President, said here, so the state will take its employees. I don't believe, colleague, you don't know. That's why I'm wondering who wrote that you didn't know they weren't the civil servants we're talking about. These are employees of regional authorities, municipal authorities, municipal authorities or statutory cities that perform the performance of the state administration. They're not state employees. You can't even say, so you, Mr. Vomáček, Novák, Svoboda etc., are leaving, or maybe you're staying, because there's no idea of what it would look like in practice. We used to sit here and invent a reform of the public administration with which the government came and the Chamber of Deputies, as proposed by the government, rejected it. By the way, there's been a lot of arguments falling here today because it's actually coming back here in a sense. That's whether it's better to have some self-government and use the government to do some work for the state, or to say, we don't need the government to do it, the state will do it itself. And we could say that in a few moments, so if the construction authorities provide the state, then education will also be provided by the state and culture will be provided by the state, let us abolish the self-government itself, the state will do everything, and it will be much easier. Because, in this case, we reach into performance or into the delegated exercise of state administration on the outskirts and on the entrusted municipalities in a significant way. And in my opinion, when the mayors and mayors concerned read what it means to them physically, they'll get scared because it's going to cost them quite a lot of money. I wonder how much the Minister of Regional Development has agreed that if it goes through the way the government imagines, how it is arranged with those who employ the specialists in question, the civil servants of the construction offices, how it either moves them from there to somewhere else, or preserves them there. How they're gonna work inside those authorities, because it's gonna be another institution, another employer. I think it's completely unfinished. And what comes from that impact study by the Ministry of the Interior, it follows that it is both huge funds, we are talking about billions of crowns, and that it is not only the new super office that needs to be secured, even though according to my deep conviction under this construction law, you will not even stand up to the super office in two years, because the construction process will just stop for two years. And I hope no one wants it. We are certainly all prepared to work on the individualities, to make a thorough analysis of why the construction process works relatively decently somewhere and why not somewhere, generalize it and work with it eventually in individual parts of the construction law so that we can get it out. Many of you here today have mentioned the fact that in the last few years since the creation of the new construction law, that is, since 2018, the construction proceedings or the period of the construction permit have doubled roughly. After all, this is a clear signal for us to look at what has become so significant that this is not a reason for revolutionary change, but it is a reason to have fun, what individual decision-making processes lead to this taking so long. Someone here named what brought in the new construction law adopted in 2018. That was the issue - now I don't know exactly what it was called - of the document, if the intention of the builder is in accordance with the zoning plan. Black people are often cited as a classic example of how long it takes, for there are those in charge of the agenda who take months and months to issue such individual documents to someone in order to ask for a building permit. It was one of the things that if we were able to eliminate, so there in those locations that are under enormous pressure from building booms, we would certainly be able to improve the situation significantly and we would not have to build new, super-large authorities for this. My colleague Adamec - I'll be brief, I don't want to talk long, because a lot of things have fallen and you're probably determined to beat it here today and send the material to second reading. I hope that at least it will be long enough to tell ourselves how badly it is written and whether or not the will here will be completely redesigned or not. Because if I were to be evil, I would actually wish it to turn out the way you suggested it, because then not only would those who decide on the construction proceedings at all, but also those who ask for building permits, including those who are affected by the building industry in some way, have to drive you out of the Chamber of Deputies for it, because it cannot work according to my deep conviction, what you have proposed and what you have brought here. A colleague of Adamec said: we meant well, but it turned out as always. I would add: we meant well and it will be worse than ever. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u122	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen and esteemed colleagues. Next in the general debate will be Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we just got this brochure on the table a few days ago. [[He's pointing.]] We all got her on the stand. It actually surprised me that this law is being enforced in this way, that all Members will receive a brochure from the MMR, but it is not written at all, who processed it, so they will get it on the table and learn how amazing the construction law is. Anyway, I read the brochure, and because some things are unclear, I have some questions about the content of the brochure Recodification of Public Construction Law, 2nd edition, October 2020, Ministry of Regional Development. That's all there is about who actually processed it, commissioned it, financed it, in charge of it, and who to turn to. So I turn here to the Deputy Minister, or to Minister Havlíček or the rapporteur, to respond at the same time. I beg you to respond to these questions. It's pretty important to me. The first thing I was very interested in is, and that has already jumped on Facebook many times as a paid contribution from the Ministry of Regional Development, sponsored for advertising by the Minister, and there is a sentence that keeps repeating itself, and in this brochure it is twice that the law is dynamic. I admit I don't really understand how dynamic the law can be. What does that mean exactly? If anyone can shed some light on this. It actually reminds me of these recruitment ads. When there's an aircraft scheme, those companies that recruit people who jump on their fat, they're typically attracted to the dynamic collective that's going to be there at the company, and dynamically, revenue is developing, and the word dynamic is used like that, I'd almost say, up to selling pots. [[♪ Will be ♪]] And here he is several times, and many times I've encountered him in communication with the secretary about this law, and I don't really understand what any dynamics have to do with the construction law. I would rather have a law that will, say, work, which will be predictable, which will be understandable, but I don't know what the added value of being dynamic is. But I guess that's more of a marginal note. And now I'm gonna move on to the questions of the matter. [[15.40 hours]] The first thing that interests me is that there are examples that don't really match. This requires that when a citizen is late with a tax return, even by a single day, sanctions follow, and builders wait for opinions and comments from the state of the month. I hope that it is still true that the first eight days are freed, virtually. I think it's free of sanctions when a man... I don't have the interest yet and so, so I'd like to ask that the examples be actually used correctly, because otherwise there's confusion, people are unnecessarily afraid of the fines that the state has no right to impose on them. But I don't think that's entirely essential. But since they can't contact the author of the brochure directly because it's not listed, I'll at least say it here. However, what is very important is the question, as this brochure states, of the very necessary fiction of consent, which means that if the institution fails to express itself, it will be deemed to agree. I'll admit that I'm wondering exactly how this is supposed to work, because imagine that you have an example of a man who lives in a residential area, next to him, a big company buys a building plot and, contrary to the zoning plan, plans a tower on him, like eight floors, which, of course, if he was built, the man who lives in that residential area, essentially devalues the property, makes his living conditions worse, doesn't go parked there, goes up to the right. And so I'm wondering if this approval fiction means that now that the builder asks for the permit and the authority that's supposed to say that it's against the zoning plan, he's not gonna send this information that it's in conflict, so he's automatically going to say that it's in line, and that thing is going to stand up, and the people who have the house that the sun isn't gonna shine on right now, because there's gonna be a tower next to it, they're bad luck. So I'd like to ask if this is one point in the fiction of consent, because I see this huge risk that one thing, of course, is the legitimate interests of the person asking for a building permit, the other thing is the legitimate interests of the people who might be affected by the construction. And when we introduce the fiction of consent, it also means that the rights of those to whom the construction falls will be limited by this fiction, decisions will be made, which, of course, are not justified in the law, because they will only be justified by the expiry of the deadline, and this can lead, first, to a huge flood of courts and also lead to huge injustices. So I would like to ask you to state exactly how this consent fiction is intended, because it really is not clear from the brochure what it concerns and what it does not concern. To what extent it is there and how invented protective mechanisms are against the abuse. Because I'm pretty sure it's easier to convince an official not to make a statement instead of handing it over illegally. So this is one big question. Then I have a question about the integration, because here it is presented in this brochure that actually one of the main intentions of this law is to integrate the organs concerned into those construction offices. [[She's flicking in it.]] However, we have on the last page of the brochure a list of those offices that are supposed to be integrated, but unfortunately, of those, I don't know, about 40 or how many there are, so there is always written: Partially integrated. Which doesn't actually tell a person much about what it means in practice. Because I don't know how much of this office's agenda is integrated into the building and how much it's left behind, and there's no, I guess, any reference to how much I can learn, so how it's meant to be. So I'd like to clarify the partial integrations to the Supreme Building Office, what it means in practice, there's some 14 unintegrated offices or agendas, and then there's a lot of partially integrated ones, which, of course, doesn't really tell a person much. [[He's in the brochure.]] Then I was very interested in the sentence... here's the sub-chapter: Construction workers call for a quick solution. And it is said that construction companies want the law terribly, and as one of the problems is the broad definition of the parties. And I suspect that somewhere else I have come across the fact that the parties to the proceedings should therefore only be neighbors. I would like to ask you how the situation is dealt with, or how precisely, who will remain and who will not remain at the moment when the property needs to be devalued, as I said, for example, the example of the tower, but at the same time will not be directly adjacent to the property on which the building is permitted, perhaps because there will be some public space or some small plot belonging to someone else. I would therefore like to know if you consider the broad definition of the parties a problem, so to what extent you want to limit them. So this is another question. Then there's one thing that interests me. [[He's in the brochure.]] It states that the aim of this law is for citizens to be able to obtain a permit to implement the construction within one year of submitting an impeccable request for a building permit decision. The word "cool" is in quotes. And I wanted to ask that, because from my experience, part of the delay in the construction process arises by leaving behind some small bureaucratic thing. Maybe my brother just asked for a building permit and didn't write in his application that he wouldn't destroy the access road to the property, and because it wasn't mentioned there, he actually had to file it again and all the deadlines ran from the start. And I consider this to be an important thing, actually, to solve these administrative errors, or to forget about some obligation, but the current situation leads to it returning to the very beginning. Once again they must ask, once again all neighbors can appeal etc. If the law also addresses the question of how, for example, this office can be helpful to avoid these mistakes, and if there are any ambitions to deal with those applications that are not impeccable and how this issue is dealt with. Then, of course, there's... [[Flicks]] Once again, the question of integration of the authorities. There's one thing I wanted to ask you. In fact, why the law goes... what is the real reason to go the way of that huge reform for tens of billions, when the core of the problem, at least based on how the Ministry presents the ambitions, the problem is that the citizen has to run around the authorities himself first. They often don't follow the deadlines, it's stretching. If he's running them all around, he'll file a request. Then it turns out that he's made some kind of mistake out there, and he can circle around again, if I understand it in layman's terms. At least that's what I feel about the media presentation of the proposal. So it would be logical for me to have an informatical solution to get the authority's consent itself, in an ideally automated electronic form, and the citizen didn't have to be a postman, and if this works out, then we have a win and there's really no need to address institutional reform. [[15.50 hours]] So I wonder why the government is actually going the way of this huge institutional reform, which inspires huge resistance to self-government, is obviously not very consensual even in this House, but it will cause enormous transformation costs, cause huge chaos in the early years since the adoption of the law, but it does not actually solve the core problem, because there will still be some officials to judge the requests, and either they will do it in time or too late. They're either gonna do it in accordance with the law or in conflict, but, actually, by putting it in another box, it's not gonna solve very well. There will be some shift in the area of systemic bias, however, as my colleague Čižinský said, the problem is not that extensive. Secondly, to think that the clerk will still be sitting in the same office, except this time rented to the state, so that suddenly the captain or the influential mayor or I don't know who's gonna have much less leverage, I think he's a little naive construction. Actually, this giant change has nothing to do with the ambition of the novel. So I want to ask why the government is actually going this way and why it connects the two issues, simplifying the process, and at the same time changing the bureaucratic apparatus that manages it into one law. I was then intrigued that the new institutional model would lead to a solution to the burning problem of black buildings, as it would allow sufficient funds to be drawn to implement the decision. So I wanted to ask you how this would be financed, what you estimate the budgetary costs of addressing this agenda. Otherwise, of course, the solution to the issue of black buildings and the possibility of really achieving their removal is desirable and I am glad that the government is dealing with it. Moving on, I'm on page 9. [[brochures]] Sub-Chapter What the promised digitization of the construction proceedings will bring. Here he is: So far, the builder has submitted a request to which he has added dozens of attachments, confirmations and stamps, so he will submit an electronically request, which he will upload including project documentation and an attachment in digital form via the Internet into the system. - So I was wondering if the possibility of a paper application would remain for the interested party, at least in the simpler cases of the application. We're always trying to put in some kind of digitalization so the state doesn't forget people who don't want to digitize themselves to keep those offline services, so I want to ask if the law counts on it, or if they're gonna have to digitize it, they're gonna have to all befel. Well, that's a question. Then... [[He's flipping the brochure.]] Here is the question: will citizens, landowners, self-government, conservationists and environmental experts have the opportunity to participate in the construction proceedings under the new construction proceedings? And then it says who it will all be, and, among other things, the owner of a neighbouring property or a building that may be directly affected by the permission of the intention on its property rights. So I just wanted to ask, and I have already mentioned how people who are not owners of the neighbouring plot are dealt with, however, will be affected by this. Next question is... It also states: in addition, the intention will be to assess the authorities concerned from the point of view of their law, whose public interest is protected, such as monuments, by the building office from the point of view of integrated agendas, such as environmental protection, thus there will be no threat to the public interests or the interests of property owners. - It's the citizens who live in the vicinity of the approved buildings that have property rights, and I think if they're expelled from it, it might fall on them, or if they're excluded from the associations that represent them right now. So I wanted to ask you really what this sentence is based on. Then there is a chapter that is behind the new building law, where it is therefore granted that it was created in cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic, which, in my view, is very problematic, because the Chamber of Commerce represents primarily the builders, developers, those who sell the apartments, but it looks at it primarily from the point of view of the profits of its members, which is, of course, legitimate at the moment when member contributions are paid, but it is not quite clear why this group should have exclusive access to the preparation of the law. And I looked at all the possible institutions that kind of reminded it, and I just basically miss the public there. Interests of people who may now be preventing them from changing the zoning plan, raising coefficients, etc. their housing has been discarded, so they're actually perceived as a problem. But there is just a need to look for a compromise between the new construction and the old construction, between the people who want to buy new apartments and the people who already live there. It's complicated, of course. I understand that the NIMBY effect is a problem, but at the same time, in a number of cases, the citizens' objections are justified, and it seems to me that at least from what is the circle of subjects, which prepared it and reminded that the legitimate interests of this part of the public are a little forgotten. Then it is said that the effectiveness of the part of the law will be only from 1 July 2023, which seems like a relatively long time, but I vividly recall that when I pushed through the proposal for a fair evaluation of pensions from 1 January - once again I thank all my colleagues who supported it - Minister Maláčová complained terribly that it was not possible to do so in that year. She said that the change in pension valorisation is in the present state of the CSSS the question of five years to ensure that all IT systems can really be set up, and this is just about the fact that the pensioners will simply receive a pension payment in January, so that they will not lose part of the Valorisation for January, and here the petitioners ambitiously claim that if pension valorization is to be a five-year process, the adjustment, but they will manage it, they will actually be able to set aside the entire construction agency agenda from the regional authorities by 1 July 2023, they can sign all the contracts, hire people, get new buildings and so on and so on, so I find the term quite ambitious. So I wanted to ask if it was really realistic. Here again, I'm on page 12 - How will digitizing the building process help a common citizen? [[Flicks]] There is talk of the form of filing, that the application will be in one place, that everything will be through the portal builder, interactive form, saving the press, one proposal instead of dozens of applications, digitally controlled process of building proceedings, and everything will be done in one decision. And I wanted to ask you really why the amendment doesn't end here. Why didn't we go down the road first to digitalization, and after we've evaluated the digitalization, we'll start with the institutional reform. It's really not clear to me as a layman why it's not enough to set up the software, connect all the authorities electronically, and only if it turns out that there are problems, or solve the institutional issue. In fact, here I see the buried dog of this novel that two unrelated things come together. Then I wanted to ask... [[Flicks]] on the question of introducing the possibility of electronic submission, but I think I'll skip it. Anyway... [[16.00 hours]] Then I wanted to ask you about simple buildings. [[He's browsing in the brochure.]] Simple buildings can also be processed by a qualified person, unless they are documentation of buildings for housing, buildings for family recreation, garages, ground structures and buildings for advertising, which must be processed by a designer. - So I was wondering if there's anything left to design these qualified people on their own, that means people who have only education and practice and aren't authorized. For example, I would expect the garage to be able to build a graduate of architecture with the necessary standards and not need authorization. So I wanted to ask why there is such a broad list of exceptions and which buildings will be able to really do with this institute, so that it doesn't seem to be in the law that qualifications are sufficient, but in practice there won't actually be any buildings that could be built in this way. Then I wanted to ask... Then I wanted to ask you about the documentation for the implementation of the construction, how the potential non-compliance of the documentation for the implementation of the construction with the zoning plan will be assessed, because it says here that the building office does not judge the documentation but uses it in the inspection. So I wanted to ask how exactly this is going to work in practice so that it doesn't really happen, let's say, to overlook when someone gets a building permit for something, and then they build something else there. This is what I wanted to ask how it would work in practice. I hope it's actually treated, and it's not quite clear from that text. Then... This is a crucial matter or a fundamental question for me. Page 25 - Authorisation procedure, application for authorisation of intent. The applicant shall submit a form containing the general elements of the proposal plus the annex /documentation for the authorisation of the intention, coordinated observations of the Regional Building Office, observations/binding opinion of the non-integrated authorities concerned, observations of owners of public transport infrastructure and technical infrastructure, planning contract, if required or concluded, consent of the owner, conclusion of the investigation procedure, if issued, other documents required by other legislation/'. - Now I'd like some clarification. I thought the whole amendment was motivated by the principle of how it is repeated, whether the Minister or the members of the ANO movement, one office, one application, one stamp. But if I understand correctly, but it's possible that I read something wrong, then one must still personally circulate all those unintegrated institutions. To me, it would seem almost more beneficial for people, so if you couldn't do it on the principle of one office, one stamp, one application, then if it wasn't better to go through the electronic link between those non-integrated authorities so that you could just file the application, and then they delivered the statement themselves instead of having to circulate it themselves. Or, please, just to clarify, did I misunderstand? However, here it is quite unambiguously listed as an annex which one must add to the application, and it is an expression of those non-integrated authorities concerned. So actually at least 12 authorities, 14 even, if I count correctly, 14 authorities will have to go around on their own, so maybe if YES could change the marketing of the proposal to 14 permits, 14 applications, and I don't know how many stamps are going to be, if 14 too? Actually, 15, 'cause it's still the construction office. At least this paragraph seems to me to be a contradiction between marketing the proposal and the reality. But really, I'll have it explained eventually, I'm just a layman on this matter. [[A voice from the diaper.]] No, I don't read the manual, I ask questions. And please, if you will, please respond with a factual remark. Then I wanted to ask you about the deadline, if the EIA doesn't have time to assess within 120 days, then if the consent fiction is automatically there, too. Then I wanted to ask you a question about the judicial review, page 30, the introduction of special local jurisdiction of regional courts for so-called reserved buildings, in parentheses of the Regional Court in Ostrava. So I wanted to ask if everyone, all the reserved buildings will be judged by the Regional Court in Ostrava... [[Call at the rapporteur's table, the speaker is waiting.]] I wanted to ask if all the reserved buildings will be judged by the Regional Court in Ostrava? Then one thing that I'm very interested in, and I'm asking for clarification. Here it is: exclusion of the abolition of territorial planning documentation with retroactive effects always first to the legal power of the judgment. - That's a thing that seems logical at first sight, but on the other hand, it may be problematic. Let me give you an example that I have met in practice as a Prague municipal representative. There was a change in the zoning plan, a zoning decision was subsequently issued and the change in the zoning plan was subsequently abolished by the court. I find it quite problematic that, in such a case, the investor could build even in violation of the zoning plan, because there were typically problematic changes at the request of the investor. I understand he's not to blame in principle, we can talk about some substitutes, whether they're adequate or not, we can also talk about the question of how the process was going, and so on. However, when citizens rightly win in court with the fact that the change in the zoning plan, which was intended to devalue their location and which led them to be damaged on their property rights, that they would increase their traffic there, the living conditions deteriorated when they succeeded in the court, but still the reason they went to the trial would remain unresolved and the construction would still stand there, so that is a huge injustice against those people who defended themselves and who legitimately defended their rights, and the court gave them the truth. So I would very much like to ask this passage about excluding the abolition of territorial planning documentation with retroactive effects always first to the legal power of the judgment. Then the institute rejected the lawsuit on account of abuse, page 31. This is where the applicant brings an action only with the aim of misappropriating his right to bring an action, the action will be rejected. I'm sorry, but I thought it was the Institute of Law Abuse that we have in our legal system in case of so-called bullying lawsuits, and that it was the question of the court whether or not to judge this lawsuit as bullying, and then it is an abuse of the law or not. But it says here that, in fact, some abstract principle of abuse will become a specific institute by which lawsuits will be dismissed, which I think is a special structure. But I can be wrong, I'd like to clarify this point. [[16.10 hours]] Subsequently, page 33, zoning. Everyone will be able to make comments on the proposals, which will have to be settled in writing in the justifications submitted to the authorising authority, and factually identical comments will be settled together. - So if you actually write everyone, you mean everyone, or the public will somehow be restricted. Then I wanted to ask - the definition of the built-up area. It will be an obligation to define the built-up territories for all premises and will finally cease to be used as the border of the built-up territory of the intravilen of 1996. Here, I'd like to ask you, it seems like a fairly large digitization project where all of the... it will probably be municipalities, that is, all the municipalities in the Republic, which are some 6,000 I suspect, will define their built-up territory, so I wanted to ask what is the institutional preparation for this process, how exactly is it going to take place and what is the timing for it, who is going to finance it. Because it seems to be quite a big deal, it probably makes sense in principle, but I would be interested in the administrative preparation of this process. The question of compensation for changes in territory. This is the equivalent of today's compensation for changes in territory. When the construction closure or the closure of the land is caused by the damage to the owner, the compensation does not belong when the owner was able to build and within five years of his inactivity did not start the steps towards the implementation of the intention. So I wanted to ask you in layman's terms - that's on page 35, I'm quite nearing the conclusion. [[Minister from the newsstand.]] That's all from the Building Law Recodification brochure. [[He's pointing. - The Minister is responding again.]] Well, I suppose we've been dealt with by the fact that this is the brochure that presents the content of the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u124	I'd ask you not to have this conversation by your side, but you're having fun on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u125	So compensation for a change of territory. This is the equivalent of today's replacement for the change of territory. When the construction closure or the closure of the land is caused by the damage to the owner, the compensation does not belong when the owner was able to build and within five years of his inactivity did not start the steps towards the implementation of the intention. - So I wanted to ask if it means that if someone buys a building plot and then doesn't ask for a building permit for five years, the village can change it into a meadow without giving him a replacement. It seems pretty strict to me, I admit, 'cause maybe you don't have the money to build that house. So I was wondering if I was reading it right. Then I wanted to ask you a question in the area of the preparation of regulatory plans if the new law would allow the regulatory plan of the territory to be drawn up in parallel with the zoning plan. This is a significant problem in Prague today, where the metropolitan plan is coming up and it would be necessary for regulatory plans for individual territories to be prepared in parallel with the metropolitan plan. However, they are waiting with them for the time when the zoning plan will be approved. So I would really welcome it if it could be prepared in parallel. I wanted to ask the Minister whether such a proposal would possibly be incorporated into his comprehensive amendment or whether it is already included there. Then I wanted to ask: The territorial measure on the construction closure limits or prohibits the construction activity during the preparation of the new planning documentation or changes thereto, it is issued by the office of zoning in the form of a general measure. - I wanted to ask what it would mean in practice, if a new zoning plan was going to be planned, all the construction activity in that area would stop, or how exactly this measure would work. Then I was interested in the question of systemic bias in relation to the specialized construction office. Because the government here argues that it is necessary to separate the construction authorities from the regions, because this will reduce systemic bias, but it itself establishes a specialized office to deal with the large transport structures that are in the Gesture of the Ministry of Transport. So I wanted to ask you how the system bias is solved on this issue, when you have the building office specialized to assess the constructions, over it is just the government-appointed chief of the senior construction office, but logically, the system bias will be shifted to this institute, all of a sudden, with all the major transport constructions that the specialised construction office will be doing. So I wanted to ask you how you have this treated, that this office, which is, of course, actually under the government, will suddenly judge the buildings and argue, of course, the political pressure of the Ministry of Transport to allow these buildings to cut the tapes, which is a typical example of systemic bias. Then I wanted to ask why the highest construction office should have its seat in Prague. We've been discussing this a lot. STAN is making a proposal, along with some of the Members from us, together with certainly other colleagues, to move the authorities into the regions. Couldn't we at least accept the principle that new authorities will be established in the regions? It would really strengthen the diversity of better jobs in those regions, reduce the pressure to move to Prague especially by college students, and I think it would support the local economy as well. So I was going to suggest whether it would really be worth considering putting the construction office somewhere other than Prague. Then I wanted to ask what the constructions of local significance meant, which is the term given on page 41, which I did not find anywhere defined there. There were simple constructions and constructions of local significance, which are supposed to be those constructions, I guess, which is judged by the local construction office, so what exactly does that mean. Then I was impressed by page 43, which is: By accepting the service, the official fiction of carrying out the administrative exam will arise. Which sounds like a pretty brave thought to me, but maybe that makes sense. But just that all those government officials are going to move to the state and become part of the state service on the basis of some fiction, so I wanted to ask if there are any other fictions hidden in that law, but anyway, what exactly is under this provision. And then I wanted to ask what it means: There will be a transfer of some of the employees of the construction offices from the municipalities of the first and second degree to the construction offices of the municipalities with extended scope on the basis of a tripartite agreement between the existing employer, the new employer and the employee. So I wanted to ask if the authorities of the first and second-degree municipalities are supposed to be canceled, or why this clause is here, or how it's meant to be. Those are my notes on the brochure I assumed the Ministry of Regional Development gave us because it represents the new dynamic building bill. I hope that's the way it was. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u126	Thank you, too. The next is Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will speak in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u127	Dear colleagues, dear fellow Members, Minister, I will calm you down, I have no brochure, I have a few comments. Maybe to begin with, I'd take a little advantage of my position to comment on the construction law, and I'd like to ask you when the grant title will be written on the infirmary for the self-employed. You don't have to answer the microphone, you just pop it in my ear, because I'm sure many of you are asking citizens and I.D.'s. And now for the building bill. The Supreme Administrative Court commented on the draft building law as follows: The law on which there are 8 thousand comments, on which there are 5 thousand fundamental comments, is not to go to the House for discussion and to be recast, because it is not possible for good law to take place in the Chamber of Deputies. I take this position seriously because The Supreme Administrative Court considers this from the point of view of how the various disputes will then find themselves with them, i.e. in the administrative courts, in addition to the Supreme Administrative Court. So I take this criticism very seriously. Maybe let's remember where it was the beginning of the idea to start preparing a new construction law. As I looked back into the media and in various statements, it was an apartment crisis and a lack of flats, causing the length of the construction process. And I'd stop at that. Does this mean that the housing crisis leads to such a fundamental change in the construction law? Wouldn't it be better if the Ministry of Regional Development thought about where the real reasons are that they're not flats and that prices are high? Is the length of construction proceedings really the only reason that there is a shortage of flats? Isn't it because there's a shortage of apartments owned by municipalities and cities? And I think that's one of the reasons. Then it would be worth thinking about how to help municipalities and cities build apartments. But breaking down a system of functioning construction offices, even with reservations, is simply a mistake. The next thing I see as a mistake is this. Perhaps few of you will recall that almost 20 years ago, and Petr Bendl mentioned it here, the second part of the reform of the public administration was completed and this resulted in the connected model, the decentralization of the public administration and everything seemed to be on the right track. However, the reform of the public administration was yet to be completed, and this, unfortunately, did not take place in the form of the third stage. And the question is, what's better? Would it not be better than to adopt such a law, to complete the reform of public administration, to analyse it in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, to find out what works and what doesn't work, and then to say how it will proceed and what needs to be improved or eliminated, and whether we really need a whole new building law? And what did the Ministry of Regional Development do? Without cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, which is in charge of public administration, state administration and self-government, which has in its dictum, in its competence, has quite unchoosyly intervened in that connected model of public administration. I believe that removing it from this model is a mistake. And we could look at an example where social services have just been earmarked from municipalities with extended scope, and it has just been hit again in this model of the delegated performance of the state administration. And as they say, it wasn't good. The removal from the model during the preparation of the draft of this law was partially abandoned, so under self-government would remain the construction authorities in the first instance, i.e. in municipalities with extended scope, and possibly in some selected, and second instance, the construction authorities would already be under state. Many times it said: Is it clever? Is that wise? And the answer is no. He's just a pasculi and a cat dog. You can't do that. In short, whatever way you pull the construction authorities out of the connected public administration model, this system of construction offices will actually be marked very significantly. So the assault on this basically connected public administration model is a very flawed step. Another point that we could talk about here, and from the beginning we have heard the reasons why we need a new building law, many of which have been mentioned here, just to repeat the pattern of colleague Ferjenčík - the repetition of the mother of wisdom, even though we have all read it. The first reason was that we have a large number of administrative acts issued by the institutions concerned. Yes, of course, the reason might seem justified, but it has also been said many times from the Minister's mouth that an inventory of these acts can be carried out and reduced in a considerable way. And that's without having to change the model of the construction offices. Much has been said about the systemic bias of officials. Since this initial reason for the new construction law, which was often stated by Minister Dostálová at the beginning of her argument, she has retreated within months, because the statistics have clearly shown that this is not true. The third reason why we need a new building law was given the missing digitization of the building proceedings. Looks like it's possible to do it here. From that we have a new law and can be prepared and we do not have to take measures that can really lead to the collapse of the construction system. [[16.30 hours]] Last but not least, the Minister mentioned the non-professionality of civil servants at construction offices. The question has always been: Madam Secretary, does this mean when an official moves from one chair to another, that his work will improve? And in this case, I would expect the Ministry of Regional Development to think about making a mistake somewhere. Whether there was any methodologically flawed and weak leadership and whether the assistance for construction offices and civil servants by the Ministry of Regional Development was sufficient. What I wanted to say. I've only given a few reasons that have been referred to as the main reasons beyond the length of the construction procedure. And all these reasons can be resolved by the fact that the current law of construction can be adapted and, above all, the constitutions of the law currently in force can be used well. As I have spoken here, I will return to the transfer of the building offices to the ORP. If you have read the impact study of the Ministry of Interior, it says that the construction offices of the municipalities of the first and second types concentrate 34 percent of all works of the construction offices. And if the agenda were to be withdrawn only on the third-type municipalities, it could mean crippling the system because of the overload. And I think that's true. There was talk today about the construction office in Černošice. This office is extremely overloaded and I cannot imagine another agenda and other officials falling under it. Another mistake, which I consider to be very fundamental, that the law is in a hurry and that it is enforced so-called force. And you know it's never good. If there is no social and professional agreement on such a law, it can, of course, cause a number of irregularities in the future, a number of resentments, and it is better that there be a real consensus on such a fundamental law. Not to mention that this law goes against regions, municipalities, a number of ministries and the academic sphere, which also disagrees. Again, what I consider to be the reason for the fifth and the error in why such a rapid amendment to the construction law is not necessary is that the costs and impacts of this amendment, respectively, are substantially underestimated. It is clear that this change will require several billion crowns, estimated to be 2.3 billion one-time, not to mention buildings. If more buildings are needed, the Home Office's analysis speaks of 9 billion. And the operating costs each year will be a 4 billion estimate. Then we must ask whether the risk and the threat of impacts do not exceed the benefits of the new construction law many times. Consider that the question of employees is not addressed at all. Have you ever asked the secretaries how they will communicate with people from the building office? The majority of municipal secretaries will offer employees of existing construction offices a different place and for each employee who remains in the municipality and does not go into the new structure of the state construction administration, a replacement will have to be found on the labour market, and this is estimated at 3,000 people. Then I wonder how in today's situation, when such people are definitely not in the labour market, employees of the new construction offices will be sought. The new building law also brings so-called. The regional development plan, which is actually a kind of territorial plan of the state, is issued by the government and is superior to the territorial plans of the municipalities and territorial plans, i.e. the principles of territorial development of the regions. The problem is that it very vaguely defines what is in it and what it can solve and what details it can go into. Thus, the government can dictate what its zoning plan is supposed to look like, and the territorial development of the plans can even allow the location of buildings regardless of what the municipality's zoning plan looks like. In the same way, the Supreme Building Office can - and I think it is very dangerous - order a building closure for part of the territory of the municipality without the self-government being able to do anything about it and, on the contrary, it can grant an exemption from the closure of the designated municipalities. An appeal against such a decision is not possible under the new construction law. Let's go. The new construction law changes the concept of the acquisition of the zoning plan. Of course, we know that the current situation is not satisfactory, unfortunately, it is changing in a completely inappropriate way. The whole process is being shifted to the construction office as a performance of the state administration, and what is wrong, restricts the possibility of the council to enter and apply its requirements. It is simply a shift in the opposite direction to what we should be going in, because alongside the budget, the zoning plan and its procurement are an essential tool for how the municipality can influence development on its territory. I firmly believe that this instrument will remain in the hands of the authorities, that it will not be taken away from them, because the municipalities are self-righteous. Of course, I am not talking about those cases where important transport infrastructure needs to be run by municipalities, that is, by road or by rail, but this must be discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying, as described by the reduction of the construction offices in this law, it is clear that up to 400 construction offices can be abolished. And I think that would be a big mistake. If we say that we want people in the countryside who can do qualified work, and if we cancel construction offices, there will be an outpouring of educated people from the countryside, because qualified jobs will be cancelled. The motivation of current officials is mistakenly assumed that they will want a change in the workplace. A number of construction offices will also be shut down by the disappearance of knowledge of the local environment, and this is very important. And construction agencies will become difficult to make available to less mobile populations. The promised contact points of the construction offices are certainly not a full replacement. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on what has been said here about the guarantee committee, and I would just like to remind you what law goes into what committee. This law has been allocated to the Guarantee Economic Committee. However, it is customary that the laws that are in the competence of the Ministry of Regional Development or the Ministry of the Interior - and this law also falls essentially under the Ministry of the Interior because it concerns the public administration - so it was customary for such laws to go into the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development in this case. When I asked the Minister why this was the case, she argued: "The Act on Acceleration of Transport Infrastructure Construction was also in the Economic Committee." Yes, he was. And right. Because who had this law in their jurisdiction? This law had the competence of the Ministry of Transport. And that's okay. As it is proposed, I do not consider this to be entirely logical and I firmly believe that a change to the guarantee committee will be achieved. [[16.40 hours]] And so I could also talk for a few more tens of minutes. However, I will conclude by asking what we want. Yes, we want the building bill. And we want a building bill that is simple, clear, welcoming to all players, that protects public interests, that most of the players agree on and reduces the construction process. That's what we want. But what do we not want? We do not want this at the cost of going down a path that could lead to a collapse of the building authorities' system and could have far-reaching negative effects, and it could have the opposite results than the intention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u128	Thank you, too. And the next will be presented in the general debate by Mr Juránek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u129	Thank you. Mr President, Mr Vice Prime Minister, colleagues, I would very much like us to really look at what we want together. We want to change the building bill together. And I'm glad my colleague Adamec said that before me. People have said so much in front of me that I don't want to comment on most things. I don't want to take the building bill right now and take it after the paragraphs and say this is what I like about him, this is what I don't like about him. But I would like to call on all of us to try to follow the common sense and all the experience we have gained in the past. We have 8,000 comments here. I'm glad the Minister of Culture is still here, but I can see that the Vice Prime Minister has taken the grapes, I hope they're from South Moravia, and I wish him a good meal, I dare say. [[Minister Havlíček has just returned to the hall with a bowl of grape wine.]] But what's important here is that this law internally affects not only the Ministry of Regional Development, but also the Ministry of the Interior. We have some kind of system in which we run this state. And I would like us to prove that during that period that we have left to pass this law, so that we can reconcile this. I will just point out historically that at the time of the division of Czechoslovakia we had already taken a different path than Slovakia. We took the road when we said that there would be such a united public administration, that the government and the government would be on one side, and that we would somehow put it together. We had the system tested in a way that saved us. And thanks to this we are also saving, you can compare this with Slovakia, which went another way that year. And here, please tell us that there are some things that will show us here if we take the Slovak road, which this bill right here might indicate in some parts, so it's going to be a much more expensive path. They have separated self-government from the government, and at all levels they always have two authorities. They have a city office, and next thing you know, they have a state office for the city. When I say it, that's how it works on the edges. There the government is strictly separated from the state administration. At this point, we have this in common with the fact that it is something that allows us to behave in a way that is closer to the people, because we have always wanted this principle across the board that all the authorities are closer to the people, so that they have a particular person, the particular mayor, and they don't have to go to the minister with every thing until Prague, so that we keep this in our proceedings. We've got it at community level, we've got it at county level. And now we're bringing in a new element, a very powerful element, which means we're going to strengthen the government very much. And I'm here to ask you to consider the level of strengthening the state administration. I say this also on the basis of personal experience, because I belong to one of the three Members who are here now, and we were previously the commanders at the very beginning, when we actually came to the full agenda of the district authorities, to our side. I know what it took. I know what it cost money. And I know what could be changed and what could not be changed. I'm just asking you to let us know that this was a rather expensive matter, too. That means it's going to cost us, too. But if it helps in decision-making proceedings, it's not important to me. What's important is that we don't demolish the entire state-management system. It's beautiful when I say this, those philosophical ideas that lead us to change this law. But here, be careful not to be the first utopia that was once behind Tomáš Moor, that it was beautifully thought out how the state would work, but the reality was different. So here, please, to try to consider the utopia, and above all, try not to disrupt the entire system. I don't want to discuss things here. I'm saying we have two paths. One way is now, at this point, to take into account the 8,000 comments that have been, to rethink them and set it up in accordance with the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of the Interior. When you read the opinion that was given by the Ministry of the Interior on this law, it is two opinions that are explicitly against each other. That means, there's also a certain way that if we were to proceed together, we could get a better model. That's one option, and that's what they suggested that this material be returned to the process. If we are in a hurry and think that we will change this as Members, as groups of Members, as parties, as coalitions, or as opposition, then we have to go the other way and look for something I would call'more than a complex amendment'. In fact, it's the only reason I see, for making sense to go this way, it's just the idea of some of us that it won't happen in time if it goes back to overwork. But I point out that this path is harder, because it is very hard to change the philosophy of the bill presented by the amendment. There is no way that this is possible with an individual amendment. A comprehensive proposal when adopted in general. I dare call on us to go that way, the one way or the other way, to think about one thing. If we want a good construction law to be here in the future, there must be a greater consensus than there is a consensus within the coalition, or even within part of the coalition and part of the opposition. I am a forestry engineer, and we have one such principle. Don't make any change you can't imagine going to last ten years. And I would very much not like us to go back to this building bill in time immediately after the elections that will take place next year. [[16.50 hours]] And I'm saying again, I don't want to disrespect any effort to change this building bill at all. Only one thing, if you look at the contradictions between 8,000 comments, between how they have not been settled, the position that the Ministry of the Interior has taken on this, in order to probably retreat from it, I am convinced that we must go really, and once again I will repeat it, one of the two ways. So either by going back to the recasting, which is what this proposal has done here, or, secondly, by a comprehensive amendment that will not accept all the comments, but which will allow the government to work to some extent at least as it currently works. Thank you for your attention and I beg you to make the right decisions. And I'm quite looking forward to the work that's going to be linked to the construction bill in at least the next few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u130	I thank you, too, and my colleague Benešík will take the floor with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vice Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I consider this bill to be wrong and under-negotiated. I doubt he'll ever speed up the construction process. But what I do know for sure is that from the logic of the matter of the building process at the time of its introduction, it will slow down. The construction authorities will simply have to deal with such extensive changes in the whole system themselves and there will not be much time left for the administration to perform itself. And that's just when we want to be called. to invest from the coronar crisis using projects for which a building permit will also be required. The European Union's planning period, for example. is limited. Thus, the time when we have allocated funds, means for the Czech Republic, has a time limit. And we will cut back on this limit by introducing such extensive reform, which, of course, will mean further delay. Therefore, a slowdown in the construction process at this critical time threatens to deprive us of a large proportion of EU subsidies. Now to a proposal that doesn't contain or what's wrong with it or what needs to be changed. I'd start with a zoning study. A territorial study must be agreed by the municipality, the assignment and the solution. But in the bill, he has no right to speak into the form of a territorial study. The municipality is financing the territorial study and its territory is being dealt with. Furthermore - setting a time limit for the procurement of territorial plans or the transfer of procurement into the separate scope of the municipality. The law focuses on the deadlines for building authorisation, but it is also necessary to set deadlines for all actions in the procurement process. That is, the length of the acquisition of territorial plans is usually over four years, with changes in territorial plans lasting years, not months. And this, of course, can further deepen the housing crisis. For example, the process of contradictions provided for in Section 55 does not have a deadline. In practice, it also lasts six months and disrupts the entire schedule of the zoning plan. Furthermore, to fundamentally revise the transitional provisions, in particular so that, after the public consultation of the zoning plan, it is no longer necessary to rework documents according to new parameters, and the lengthy process has not been extended again, and that the municipality does not incur additional costs for the recasting of documents already issued. What's the reason? The law sets out a new requirement called. Standardization, but no one's ready for this. If any further administrative requirements are laid down, then with an additional deadline. It is a demanding procedure for which it would be appropriate to set at least ten years from the effectiveness of the law. It should be noted that the community with extended scope has dozens, in some cases 80 municipalities, and that the entire extensive documents will be extremely demanding. So there is a risk that spatial planning can be blocked again. Further - to facilitate the situation of the procurement of territorial plans for small municipalities, in particular to reduce the requirements for administrative and formal requirements. It's supposed to be a simple process. The formal requirements for the city's urban plan on one hand and the small municipalities are simply the same. And in the end, it's a lengthy and costly process. Further - do not remove Prague's building regulations, on the contrary, allow construction regulations for large cities. Prague would complicate the situation for the new metropolitan plan, which could once again deepen the housing crisis. In addition, Prague building regulations have good credit for the professional public and large statutory cities also call for this possibility. And lastly, consider the role of self-government. In the event of a dispute over the form of a zoning plan, the State Administration shall ultimately decide pursuant to Section 49. The municipality must be given the opportunity to defend the constitutional right to self-government, i.e. to allow the self-government to turn to the court, with a specified deadline in the court for the decision, as has so far been the case in the judgment on territorial plans. The document is intended mainly to be an instrument of the local authority of the municipality, but it has a weaker position here. I believe that we will use common sense, let us also use ground arguments from experts, and that we agree that this law, this draft, really needs to be fundamentally amended. And I fear that at second reading, when we apply the amendments, it is not enough. This law should be revised fundamentally and should be returned to the Gestator, the Ministry of Regional Development, for a fundamental revision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u132	Thank you. The next one will be Mrs Richterová in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u133	Thank you for the floor. I will speak briefly to this law because it also concerns my work as a Member in my constituency, when people turn to me with incentives for the functioning of the construction law and the construction authorities, and also because it affects many areas of our lives. It's an important office. It's the kind of public administration that affects a lot of people throughout their lives who otherwise don't have much to do with the government, even the state, thinks they don't need it, and then surprised to find out when they need it that it doesn't work. And for that reason, if the new building bill isn't well designed, it's gonna fall on all of us. For each of us who move in the public sphere, there will be another piece of distrust that this state can manage community affairs and that it makes sense to pay taxes here. And I would not want to do that, and so I will try to bring some of the principles that must be discussed, and the specific things that people have turned to me with, with which I have intersected the Minister and which must be materialized in the proposed solution. Really an introduction to the public administration. There are a number of well-known principles that public administration must adhere to in order to be seen as fair. For one thing, it's predictable. Those decisions must be uniform throughout the country, reviewed. In addition to predictability, it should be public administration balancing different interests, individual interests, society as a whole, the interests of municipalities versus, for example, the whole state, the interests of entrepreneurs, the interests of people using space as a public space, etc. [[17,00 hours]] In addition to predictableness and balancing interests, speed is equally important. Speed in public administration means whether it addresses the needs of people in the situation in which they are. And then, of course, enforcement. It is useless when the construction office decides for example. the removal of the building, and then the decision doesn't force it. Yes, there was a fund for it, and I was intersecting it to the Minister and I was dealing with it, but in short, the principle of enforcement of the construction law, in the construction law in our country, was very disturbed in the past years. And all of this, as far as good public administration is concerned, it is a life experience that, not only in the building law, our state is fair to all citizens, which is the most difficult thing to do, we all know that it will never be exactly the same, but really as well, so all of these principles are meant to be embodied in the design of a new building law. I think it's obvious what's been disturbed. Balancing interests is hardly possible for a standard that is written by only one interested party. Predictability can be difficult to guarantee when there is no emphasis on the methodical leadership of officials, when complaints spread only in public space that they work poorly. As far as enforcement is concerned, this also lacks clear evidence of how it has improved or not improved. All we know for sure is that today it's a slow construction process, people don't have good experience with it, and that's probably why this government decided to take such a peacock move called we're going to solve it. We will force a new building law into the election. But what's the threat? That all the attention of the professional community of people who understand it and care about it is wasted on avoiding some of the greatest excesses, the greatest imbalances in public interests, private interests, and that this opportunity is wasted to fundamentally adjust the area involved in the course of the lives of hundreds of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people. That there will be a waste of the opportunity to restore confidence that our state is well-managed, meaningfully and has a sense of the state to work. And that brings me to the first circuit I want to highlight. A large number of complaints made by the Minister when I asked here about the specific problems of both the construction offices and the review proceedings at the Ministry, etc., affected the lack of workers. I don't care about people working for state administration at construction offices, regional offices, the ministry. And I ask how the secretary wants to address this key area by further dissavouring people's confidence in the fact that it makes sense for this state as an architect or as another expert in this field. In addition to this aspect that we need great people to work for the construction authorities, for the construction unions also cities and municipalities and for the Ministry, in addition to this aspect we need a second thing and that is to take into account the multidisciplinarity of all the overlaps that the construction authorities have. To some extent, the public annual reports of the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman's Office, show this. He's actually dealing with the reality of what my enforcement of the decisions of the construction authorities looks like. What really looks like dealing with claims for compensation filed at the Ministry. I often encounter people encounter the silence of the Office when, according to the administrative rules, at least this is to be answered: We do not have the capacity to address your request for review. Unfortunately, the deadline of two months is not respected by the Ministry. As for the summary, which follows not only from my experience in the Chamber of Deputies, but also from the Ombudsman's work, it is clear that this is indeed a huge subject. For example, in 2017, to which this is described in detail in the annual report, 324 people with problems with territorial or construction management or the use of construction and 145 people with problems related to the removal of the building or the additional occupation of the building turned to the Ombudsman. Then there are different specifics to you to imagine, cases of type: when a neighbor turns his family house into a guesthouse. This is one example of what people have to deal with, and they need a construction office to do it. A high-quality building office connected to the overall concept of quality life in the village and in our company. Or another example of such a problem is... addressed by the Ombudsman was: The municipality is the owner of the building and its construction office is intended to address violations of the construction law. But it may be disadvantageous for the municipality to proceed strictly, because the municipality is the owner of the building. This is an example of specific things. I will ask one more question, which is very much about the balancing of interests mentioned, and that is the question of whether a party to the construction process can consult the project documentation. The Ombudsman found that different regional authorities and their construction unions had different views. That it is not balanced what the interests are according to the nature of the building, according to the circumstances. Of course, there is a need for the interests of the owner of the building to preserve privacy, a party to the proceedings for a fair trial. On these matters, I want to show this second point that the construction office is not just some technocratic office that can only judge the technical aspects of buildings, but sometimes it just gets into a much wider context. I'll give you an example in my field, social. The construction authorities are also dealing with whether people can get a housing supplement to a cottage, a facility that is not specific to permanent housing. They're trying to figure out if it's so-called. dignified housing, and it's possible to admit it. I'm showing you the width of the shot again. And here we can see that there is a great scope for improving the methodological leadership of first-degree workers and that the Ministry has a great chance not only to attract great people, but also to raise them and maintain them. And I wonder how he's working on it. How much energy it puts into a patient, laborious, but in the result of a very effective methodical management of the workers of the construction offices and how much it now puts into the solution of the greatest excesses in the new proposed, I think very unbalanced building law. To sum up, what I want is to make such an important standard with such a wide scope, with such a great impact on the functioning of our country and with such a great impact on the perception of the state, the state as one who provides service fast, enforceable, balanced, balancing various interests in society and in the finals fair - such a law should be based on a quality basis. And that's been said many times, and I'm not gonna say it again. But if we are in a situation where there is no interest in working in construction offices, it is not attractive for the best people in the industry to work for the state, if we do not have complete digitalisation, there is an approved legislative basis for this, but there is a huge need to complete this process so that all documentation can really be electronically, so that the individual authorities concerned approach electronically and easily, at the same time, when they give their comments on certain specific documentation. Knowing that these are the real problems faced by the Ministry of Regional Development and which should address and have at least a framework overview of how they will gradually improve them, I find it very unfortunate that all energy will go into a drag on one or the other section of the construction law. [[17.10 hours]] I would like us to live in a country that brings great people to its services, to state services, to a country that has predictable standards; standards based on factual backgrounds, data, facts and justifications of why one or the other interest was preferred, and I believe that in such an environment it would be much better to promote the best possible quality of the work of ordinary officials, people working at the first stages of the system, which would save huge money in the finals then in appeals, in requests for review at regional offices and at the Ministry. It would also save a lot of time and in the finals and money to citizens, builders, all those who need something from the state as part of the construction process. The quality of people's work, their support, their focus on this unified methodological leadership is something that I think is very little to talk about, and yet it is applicable to all areas of government, and there is a huge deficit here. Great people exist but are not systematically supported, their experience is not systematically exploited and replicated. And such a state with fair, enforceable and building rights, which takes into account the diverse interests, would then attract not only the great people, but also keep, raise new ones and we would witness over the years that the building process would not be considered as the greatest suffering that a citizen must suffer when he needs something, but as a normal part of a life that works predictablely, quickly enough, and only in exceptional cases it is necessary to use those institutions of appeal or review, and only in exceptional cases it is necessary to address the various aspects of the building right in plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. That is what I would like us to be able to achieve over the next few years such a standard, which will then no longer need constant adjustments, to undermine the confidence that this state can do something properly, and I believe that it can do something, which instead, for example, will offer not only architecture to today's graduates, but also other related fields a perspective, a place that they will raise and in which they will want to spend much of their professional life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u134	Thank you, too. The next in line is Mr Jan Čižinský, so far the last one entered into the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u135	Thank you. I'll be short. I'd just like to comment on the process. In fact, here at first reading, we have something that we all know is going to be completely revised by the next reading, something else. And I'd actually like to think about it. I'd like to compare the building bill to the car. We've got a car here that someone's driving slow, someone's driving fast, and we haven't studied properly, and the D.O.D. hasn't studied properly why someone's driving slow. And now, actually, there's another car that everybody's saying is supposed to drive fast, but everyone's having doubts about whether the parts correspond, and now instead of returning to the plaintiff to check it out again, it's said, let's move on, and on those committees, everyone's just gonna design a gearbox, some steering wheel, some gear lever, and it's gonna end well. We all know that this is not going to go well, even the Supreme Administrative Court is saying that it will not go well, and we will now vote on whether we take the concerns of the Supreme Administrative Court seriously and return it to a recast, or whether we take them seriously and it will end badly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u136	Thank you. Mr. Mr. kolovratník. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u137	I'm going to join the general debate from the table now, not as rapporteur, but I don't think there's gonna be much more discussion. I think that the camps here in the House are clearly divided and given that we will be moving on at this late evening time, or it will be good to move on to this decision, which committees in the House will be devoted to the law, yet a few very, very brief reactions from me. And I'll take it from the back. First of all, Mr Čižinský through the President. The comparison with the car, I don't think it's true, or it's not properly described by you. Let me remind you that, unlike the Arnika study, mentioned by fellow pirát, the Ministry of Regional Development had the RIA processor, the assessment, if you looked at it in depth at all, Professor Mejstřík and RIA were looking into all the authorities. There was a questionnaire that went to hundreds of authorities, and the information, the answers are in the RIA. It's mentioned and described. I don't think it makes sense to react any more now to what happened here in the debate around 10:00 in the morning, but I think, in general, colleagues, I understand - and it's a legitimate concern - your concern about the change in the overall systemic reverse of building law, or the organization of building law, but let's be aware that there are about 13,5% of workers in this system, workers who, in short, I'll always give a good analogy, or I like the comparison of the cadastral office, the central cadastral office, which, I guess, we all agree that works well here, has no big problems. Let's see if you can imagine it this way. Try to think about the fact that the government pays money for the transferred scope. It's about 4 billion a year. They will not pay, simply these costs will just go to operation, to function, to the existence of the construction office. And somewhere in that debate, I'm saying it now, as I recall from my head, it was said that it would be some huge cost for a new mansion, that a new mansion would be built. Here it should be recalled that the part of the Ministry of Regional Development, which is responsible for the planning and construction law, is located here in Letenská Street near the Ministry of Finance and, for example, this building, this space and even these people will be the foundation of the new institution under consideration. So so much, and I repeat, not now as rapporteur, but in the general debate my response to some of your comments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u138	Thank you. I have two factual points here. The first is Mr Marek Výborný, the next is Mr Jan Čižinský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u139	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I can't do it. This comparison of the building authorities to the cadastral authorities, my colleague, limps on both feet through the President. I think you know very well. I find that absolutely incredible. And I want to respond to what you said. So if the whole day's debate on the construction law is to be sold by no longer responding to what was said here at 10:00 a.m., and those questions came from colleagues from all the club members, including social democracy, so if we want to end the first reading with this, I really expect that the minister who represents the government here is not seeing another foot in the bench, the Minister of Culture still has unwrapped things here, so that there will actually be answers and responses to what has been said here. Here are so many questions from Members' mouths across Members' clubs that I cannot imagine now that we should say, and it makes no sense to respond to what has been said here this morning, in the words of the rapporteur. [[That's]] So many questions have been asked from this morning until now that I really think that if you want to finish your first reading today, then someone here will come forward for the government and respond to those questions. Gentlemen, that's perfectly normal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u140	Thank you. Another comment by Mr Jan Čižinský, Mr Ferjenčík, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u141	I'm gonna say something like that. We therefore approved the presence of the Deputy Minister, I assumed, also to respond to those questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u142	The next in line is Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u143	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to ask the Minister and the Deputy Minister, first of all, to respond in the debate, because otherwise we can no longer respond to it afterwards. And because if they don't, we'll have nothing left to do but take a break at a club meeting, how to deal with a situation where the opposition is asking questions all day, and then no one in the government will respond to them, so that we can answer what happens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u144	Will the Minister respond? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u145	Hello. Thank you again for all your questions. I don't want to provoke, and I don't want it to escalate into taking the last word. I've been trying to communicate with my colleagues. I've been trying to catch up on a whole series of questions. I think that a number of these questions are not possible in this plenary, and then it is up to the committees. In any case, when I was preparing for today's meeting, which I was quite looking forward to, I have to say, because I think it is an important law, so I came here with some respect, with some humility, aware that my knowledge of this issue is not extra deep, which I am not saying that we did not participate in. But I tried to study it, and with all due respect, I tried to use the support of the Deputy Minister who was there. I don't see anything wrong with it. I completely misunderstood the comparison between President Bartoš through Mr President and assistant to the Pirates. In our country, we usually try to deal with these things with the deputy professors, not with the assistants. But I believe that there may not even be a need for the Deputy Secretary to communicate something, because I have to say that I am a little disappointed in the fact that I thought my knowledge was a little shallow, so from the reaction of some - some to be objective - from among the opposition, I feel that they are still too deep. I thought we were going to talk about content, that it would be better to propose something better, that it would be discussing what could be better, and so far especially the first part - the second part was quite good in my opinion - was a lot about the process, it was superficial, it was off topic. Instead of going to content, they were, pardon me, just political phrases. However, I respect that. I completely agree with what Mr Výborný said through Mr President that I did not say correctly at the beginning of the day that I would ask not to be about politics. It's gotta be about politics, or it can't be. I should have said a better term, that please don't make so much policy, which, unfortunately, has not been completely achieved. If I take this one step at a time, and please don't say the names, who said what, then from the few dozen questions that fell, I completely misunderstood why we are being criticized for wanting to cancel the service of dozens of authorities when the citizen will no longer serve (?) these dozens of offices, but when, on the contrary, only one single office will serve. That's why we're doing this. That was, I believe, right from the beginning, by Mr Kupka through Mr President. I respect Mr. Kupka as mayor, and I know he understands his stuff. But here I completely, completely misunderstood. Maybe it's because I'm not exactly in the details. But I think that's why we want one place, that's why we want one office. And I didn't quite get the criticism and I didn't get it. As for the - and this is the important thing that has fallen here - the relationship between the city and the state, the cities are supposed to have a political responsibility. I think we agree on that. And, of course, responsibility for territorial plans. However, at least we perceive the technical and procedural situation correctly that it should go to the state, which does not in any way prevent us from adapting the technical requirements for the needs of the city, for the needs of even smaller municipalities or for line constructions. There was a question as to how Members would like to make various adjustments. We have made it clear that we are ready to cooperate on amendments if they are reasonable if they make sense. We didn't do it with the way somebody said, "You're doing it like a bulldozer." Well, I understand what he said, I think, Mr Profant through Mr President, let us start doing and changing what is wrong. Well, if we're in 153th place, that's why. We're starting to change everything, everything. There's no other way. Otherwise, it'll be a salami method again. However I understood the experience of Mr Adamec through Mr President, who said: it is better to go in pieces than at once - but we have nothing left. I'm bohužel so. The result of several generations of government is that we're in the situation we're in, and it's ruthless. I think we agree on that, and I think most of you, of us, want this change to happen. And if we do it in pieces, that's not the change we're expecting. We need to do this decisively, however I understand that we don't all have to agree on this. The important thing that fell here was the environment. Building authorities will be bound by environmental laws, which I answer at least partly to Mrs Balcarová through Mr President. I would just like to add that this environmental protection is a matter of the amendment law and that there is a clear consensus with the Ministry of the Environment on all modifications. I did not fully understand, although it was not entirely tied to this law, Mr Profant's question through Mr President, what, therefore, is the case with the ŘSD when it does not rule, although it is already built. Yeah, well, we're just going to the RSD as soon as he gets up. Of course, everything has to be fulfilled. For example noise parameters etc. But the ŘSD is collaborating practically nonstop, continuously. Well, maybe there's just something here that we don't understand each other, so I guess there's no problem that we should talk about it afterwards, or you can exchange information about what's going on in there with Director Mátl from ŘSD. But what is interesting is that, Mr Profant, through Mr President, at the same time, you have said that it does not concern, this law, in principle, the constructions of the MIT and the Ministry of Transport. Well, I think it's mainly about MIT buildings and the Department of Transport. Apart from the fact that all line constructions, but also line law 416 is closely linked to the construction law and that the Ministry of Transport invests 80 percent of the state budget, we can continue to talk about energy constructions etc. But if, well, I'd take that they're the big buildings, well, the Ministry of Industry has all the companies under it, the businessmen, that means all the constructions of the business environment are connected to it. That means, here I agree with what one of the other Members has said, I apologise, I don't know which one that applies to virtually everyone, and I agree with that, of course. It's definitely about the business. Absolutely. And that's why the Chamber of Commerce, which is by law, worked intensively on this. I do not know why the Chamber of Commerce is being attacked here as a lobbyist institution that participated in this. Well, who else of this economic environment than an institution established by law should participate in this? And here we are at the debate about who's gonna be or what committee will be the guarantee committee. There are different opinions about it. Maybe it's just, in general, the view that we have different. You say guarantee is a public administration committee. We believe that the construction law concerns, in particular, the economy. That it concerns companies, businessmen. That it concerns transport, that it concerns the immediate impact on the economy, which is why I also present it here, if Minister Dostálová could not, I, who has the whole economy in mind, and it seems logical to us that the Committee on Economics will become the Gesture Committee, which does not happen today and simply destroy the Public Administration Committee. We don't want to bleed on barricades because of this, but I don't know what's weird about the fact that building and building law and everything connected with it is very intensely bound to the economic committee. [[17.30 hours]] Mr Čižinský, through Mr President, had a number of questions. I'm stuck here. I do not know, Mr President, why you are terrified that construction agencies will be 200 km apart. That doesn't work mathematically. If we have agreed that they will be in each ORP, plus in the 100 other municipalities that will meet the requirements, I said it here at the beginning, so it will be about 300 municipalities. 300 municipalities can't even technically be 200 km apart. Maybe 20, maybe 30 km. But what's more important is that we don't look at the numbers here, that 300 municipalities can't be 200 km apart, is that the goal is that they don't have to go to the office at all. On that point, I have the feeling that we have generally agreed that digitalization and what's there makes sense. Well, that's our ambition. Not to go to that office all the time, since we said one stamp, one office, no matter how much we can talk today about whether it's going to be one stamp or not, but a strong reduction, so the point is to do it all digitally. Shortly to the cities. Construction regulations won't be the same for everyone. But it will be the same foundation. This was partly for what Mr Dolínek said through Mr President, and the specifics will undoubtedly be for large cities. There's been a lot going on here with the zoning plans. Yes, it can generally be agreed that territorial plans, if not good, will not be good territorial development. There's no question about that. On the other hand, in the area of territorial planning, we are strengthening the role of self-government. If I understand correctly, if you don't, please correct me or find me somewhere. While the brochure was here, I looked it up very quickly, so in the brochure on page 32, the role of self-government is strengthened, and it's not just about the brochure, but I just took a quick look at it. And that spatial planning is within the separate remit of municipalities, and, in addition, new possibilities to strengthen their stability allow this bill to be strengthened, but the state must not lose, on which we agree, control over compliance with the legality of the laws. This means that no one is taking urban planning to municipalities, and if so, please, and I am not saying this badly, to indicate the provisions of the law, where there is a specific restriction of self-government compared to today. With Mr Bendl through Mr President, with all due respect for the fact that I know that you are a competent official, I have the feeling that you have not really read the law, because it is clearly written several times that nothing will be built. I don't know why we're living in some idea of starting a house. Nothing will be built. No house, just a technical shift. It's detailed in the building bill. A number of interesting suggestions, questions from Mr Ferjenčík through Mr President, I wanted to almost mentor at first when I saw that a number of Members did not read the law, that it was enough to read at least the brochure. However, I did not know that Mr Ferjenčík, through Mr President, would take this literally, because, of course, the brochure is some sort of marketing tool. I didn't think we'd be here to discuss the page from the page right now and see if it was quite right or not. I assumed we'd be dealing with the law. However, the many things you have raised there are, of course, linked to the law. However, it was a good analysis of the brochure. The fiction of consent that you mentioned, Mr President, is already in 416, you will remember that when we discussed it here. Thus, if there is something contrary to the zoning plan, no permit can be issued. You have partly touched on the integration that is actually partially integrated, the part of the agenda is integrated, which is related to the constructions, it is only for integration. Formalities, I consider this a good point, and it is good to explain how to work with them, or when there are problems with some formal requirements, a new information system will help. It's called a construction portal, and it's also marked there. Another quite good question was, or design, or subject, practical - defective request. Yes, if there's a defective application, the construction office will invite the builder to correct these defects. But what's important is only once, i.e., it can't happen again and every other so-called. There can't be any more mistakes. That's, say, practicality, and we believe, even acceleration. As far as the paperwork is concerned, it is possible, even there, if I made a quick note of it, I saw this question. Otherwise, of course, I don't have the information. I was here online in contact with Minister Dostálová, who is truly sorry about today's meeting, but she tried to keep me informed. With some things being directly targeted at her, e.g. Mr Adamec, through Mr President, will be happy to answer him ideally then on the committee. There was another possible challenge, perhaps a question of why the Supreme Building Office - I repeat, it's not a new building, we're just moving people - couldn't be anywhere else. I could. No one is questioning whether he will be in Prague or anywhere else. In the end, there will be a branch in Prague, so let there be some discussion as to whether it will be allocated here or anywhere else. It would probably be more practical in Prague, because it would only really happen to move these people. I'm sure it makes sense to discuss systemic bias. Here's the interesting thing, I noted, the Legislative Council of the Government, what it said. Among other things, the Government's Legislative Council, if it has been bowed here several times, has recommended that the Government's Legislative Council approve this law to the Government. There's nothing more to say. So she recommended him for approval. But to the Government's Legislative Council, so as not to forget the systemic bias: anyone who wants to delay the construction process can use this element. Understood, system bias. So that's it. Mrs Kovářová, through Mr President. I believe I was quick enough to note it, I'm marked from a chair in a chair. I mean, moving these people. This isn't even about the chair in the chair. Here I thought the point was that this is a job that should be under some kind of professional guidance and unified methodological guidance. I think that's a pretty big difference. I am also continuing with Mrs Kovářová through Mr President. The state in its spatial planning can change the municipal zoning plans, which it can do today if I have the right information, and I think that's right when it comes to the interest of the state. I don't see anything wrong with that. And with Mr Juránek through Mr President, 8,000 were comments. Some might say there's 8,000 of them, which is why it wasn't so good. Well, we can also say that 8,000 means that very honest work has been done, because the 8,000 comments have been dealt with, almost 2.5 years have been worked on the law, or almost 3 years, and that remains from the 8,000 unfinished 309,, and that is because there are systemic contradictions. To the Home Office, which was also raised here, it's all settled there. There's no problem. All I can remember is that the Department of the Interior will still be discussing the issue of firefighters. That was discussed in the government. However, the comments of the Ministry of Interior were settled. I'm sorry if I wasn't able to pick up any questions at full speed. I know that there was a need for more from Mr Profant through Mr President. I couldn't even write them down. some are actually already of the character that they are actually suitable for committees. Please, let us respect that this can be discussed in detail on the committees. I look forward to the debate and thank everyone once again for having this discussion today, and forgive me for not being a complete, say, expert on the subject. I'm looking at it a little bit simplistic, a little bit of a buyer, but I took a look at the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u146	Thank you, too. We have six factual points here. The first one is Mr... Seven. First MP Ivan Bartoš. Mr Dominik Feri and others will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u147	Thank you for your word. I would just like to respond quickly to the Minister through Mr President. He was here talking about the fact that the individual questions, and he considered that the individual questions did not have a proper level and it was politics. But most of the questions he answered were rather formal questions about the process. And the trial is important for the entry of the law into the House. The second thing that surprised me here is that, of course, the Chamber of Commerce has the opportunity to comment, it is an established point of reference, but it certainly does not have a legislative initiative. So let's not confuse the roles played by the proper authorities in the House of Law process, it's the House, it's the Senate, it's the regions that have the legislative initiative. The Chamber of Commerce is a point of reference, which has sent us an opinion here, which, I stress, has been rejecting and critical of the proposed version of the law. And the last thing I want to do is respond to the first one. I set the example of my assistant, and it is interesting that the Minister had a tendency to evaluate it. So we choose people according to their competencies. My assistants don't make coffee here. They're not some people who bring us notes and letters. What I was saying was that, in principle, when I am a politician and I have my assistant, it is basically similar to that of this assistant acting for me in the House as we have voted on the possibility of speaking from the Deputy Minister, which I think is a political environment where we have the appropriate expertise for committees, and according to that, the laws are also divided, and we are having a political debate here. So just about the competence and the principle I set out, in case somebody acts here as a politician.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u148	Thank you. Next in line is Mr Dominik Feri. A Member of the Marek Výborný will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u149	Mr. Secretary. Before you patronize the Members and mock the erudics or the quality of their questions, remember where you are sitting. You're sitting in the House at first reading. How can you complain that these questions are too political, too general? That's what we're supposed to do here. You come to the first reading and complain that there's the first reading. So if you can't handle it, and if you can't get your bearings, let's wait for the secretary. I repeat and submit my procedural proposal to interrupt this hearing to the presence of Minister Dostálová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u150	I'll leave the procedural proposal to the vote. Right now? Okay. So there's a procedural proposal. I'll call all the MPs. We'll wait, of course. I'll sign you all out. [[Members are coming to the ballroom.]] Please log in to those who have not yet logged in with your cards. And we will vote on Mr Dominik Feri's procedural proposal to interrupt this point to the presence of Minister Dostálová. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 5. 93 Members registered, for 31, against 45. The motion was denied. Next, with a factual remark, will be Mr Marek Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u151	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will take the liberty of responding to the Minister's final speech, but I must say that this would require a separate long performance. Just three things I have to do. Minister, if you say you have the staff and consent of the Government's Legislative Council, you are right, but you are no longer saying that B, that on nine pages of the Government's Legislative Council, it describes the proposals for the necessary amendments to the law. Of course, the agreement is there, but there are also nine pages of comments from the Government Legislative Council on the proposal submitted by the Government and the Ministry of Regional Development. You're the one who asked the question here, or you're the one who suggested that you don't see the impact on cities, regions, and municipalities at all. Well, for God's sakes, if you take the whole law, it's a complete revolution of the public administration. This is where the connected model, which has been operating here for a long time, is being liquidated. Of course, there may be some relevant debate about this here, but I believe that it is not within the framework of the construction law. Well, the impact on the county and the community will be huge. Budo's impact on public budgets, we've talked about this many times. You're going down the centralization path, which means the micromanagement that every company leaves downstairs, so you're moving it to state level. This means, if you are interested in checking every curb in the Czech Republic, unfortunately that is exactly what you are doing here. And that will have consequences for municipalities and cities. So really, really the proposal - and if you look at the reaction of statutory cities, by the way, also Ostrava, which is run by the ANO movement, but Brno, Jihlava, Liberec, Prague and others today, it tells you quite clearly: the law hinders the economy, the bill ignores the various needs of municipalities and cities. By the way, by interfering with separate legislation, including Prague, this is exactly what immobilizes local planning at the level of statutory cities. And one last thing. That committee, so tell me, why didn't you write that bill at the MIT if you want it to be discussed as a guarantee economic committee? [[Time warning]] That doesn't make any sense at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u152	Ambassador, thank you for keeping the time. Next, Mr Jan Čižinský, will be prepared by Mr Ondřej Profant. All factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u153	Thank you. Only the miles. If the Supreme Building Office is located somewhere, you mentioned Prague, so of course it will decide something and it will often be much more than 200 km for those buildings, where the building will be decided in case of any difficulties or appeals. But you mentioned here that you don't know how the situation of self-government is going to get worse. For example, the government will be able to place any construction in the village without the approval of the municipality. It introduces a new instrument, a territorial development plan. What will be in it will be without the will of the village in the territory of the village. In addition, the establishment of the built-up territory. At present, this built-up area is defined by the council or council of the municipality, which is to be done by the local planning office, i.e. the municipal or regional authority, i.e. no longer the council. So are building closures. They also no longer have a council or council to declare, similarly also exceptions to the construction closure, planning contracts. There even disputes between the parties are to be settled by the Supreme Building Office. It is, of course, the nature of the matter that the court has a problem with the contract. Then the gap between the measure of the zoning plan and the documentation for the approval of the intention will increase. At present, the distance is large enough, because the zoning plan cannot have the detail to actually project according to it, and it is supposed to increase. That means when you're calling here to tell you what's going to make the position of self-government worse, I guess if you're putting it here, you'll know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u154	Next, MP Ondřej Profant. Member Petr Bendl will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u155	It has been said repeatedly here that it is for committee debate. That let's work on the amendments. Well, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which this law traditionally has in its power, has such a working group, is working on it. A digital technical map, which here was approved de facto without a debate, came from it because it was quality legislation. Because the committee worked together with the experts, because they're really represented by the subjects involved. While you're just showing through this ignorance that you don't realize at all that it's not just about your roads, that really these cities are building more complex things, solving urban situations, etc. That is why it is as a key competence of public administration to address what these things will look like. Of course there's money going on like everything else, so you can say it belongs to the Economic Committee, but it's definitely not just about that. And the other thing. Why did I mention the ŘSD and the housewarming? Because ŘSD is a big builder, an investor, and as I said in the example of the D0, it just isn't collapsed because noise limits aren't respected. And I'm asking why the state doesn't set an example, it doesn't make the perfect submissions, and then it doesn't build it accordingly. It's hard when the building authorities have to deal with the fact that it's not the way it was in the decision. And that's another one of those problems that needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u156	Mr Petr Bendl, President Jan Chvojka will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u157	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sincerely thank the Minister for not taking advantage of the situation, for not waiting for the debate to be completed and for giving us the opportunity to express ourselves to the rest of us. I appreciate that. I have asked three questions, more or less one - when I was discussing the construction of a super office, I have to quote from the impact study of the recodification of building law, among other things I also asked how seriously it was taken when the Ministry of the Interior processed it, where it says: Construction of buildings for employees 25,402 billion crowns. For objectivity I add - construction counted in maximum variant. Construction of writing houses 3.5 billion crowns - construction included in the maximum variant, we can talk about it being less. Soon we'll be discussing the state budget, what it's going to look like, so I'm just adding here, and I was also asking about what's going on with the employees. Only severance for employees of construction offices is calculated by the Ministry of the Interior at CZK 548 million. Half a billion people we'll transfer from one office to another office if they want. If they don't want to, we'll be looking elsewhere for qualified officials. And I could quote further, I don't want to go into detail here. But these are the billions that should also be made clear as to how we are dealing with it. There's no Home Secretary here, it's probably not important for public administration reform, so I'm asking you, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u158	Thank you. President Chvojka withdrew his point of order, so Mr Martin Kupka will speak. Mr. Ondřej Benešík will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u159	Thank you for the floor. We have actually asked a number of specific questions, but we have not received specific answers. That comment about the very competence and where the applicant for a building permit would go, for example, for the construction of a family house, if the government bill were to apply. A proposal or request would be made at the competent municipal construction office at its place of residence if it lives in that Brandýs nad Labem, Staré Boleslav. But be careful, all the DOS would have been at that state county construction agency by then, which means if he wanted to negotiate with them, he would have gone to another office. The vision of one stamp is not in sight. It just doesn't work that way. This is a real situation. That's how it's written in the building bill. That's how it really is. And if, Minister through the President, you do not understand the law that way, I would recommend that you read it once more. And maybe that's why Secretary Dostálová should be here right now and answer those questions. Because this is exactly what it says, and it means that the construction that he would allow would have to have the last floor less than 22 metres, or 22.5 metres from the growing terrain, and less than two subterranean floors. In such cases, what I have mentioned really happens is a double procedure, and we are actually beyond what should be our common intention, namely to simplify those people. And I've been pointing out examples of functioning authorities where all of this can already be handled in one step today, because it's possible to combine these activities in that place. Well, that's one important point. And I would like to ask you one more important thing, your idea of what, for example, the size of regional construction offices in a medium-sized region will look like. [[Time warning]] In the end, won't they be larger than the existing regional authorities? [[additional warnings]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u160	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Ondřej Benešík, Mr Ivan Adamec and Mr Roman Onderka, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u161	Thank you for the floor. In my speech, which was not so long, I described several points in which I stated where this law, if approved, would affect municipalities, towns and municipalities, municipal and municipal authorities. I hope my contribution was not seen as political or political. I was trying to be most relevant, and I referred to the specific paragraphs in the bill. After all, even today's statement by the Mayors of the cities of the Czech Republic, who have a negative attitude towards this proposal, shows that it simply affects ammunition, it affects them in a real way. And it really concerns the proposal, and it will affect my village of Strání, where the construction office is, but also the municipalities such as Březová or Korytná, which fall under the construction office in Strání, and they will, of course, touch Prague. It's really about ammunition, from the biggest, to the smallest. And, of course, it also applies to citizens who, for example, will try to get a building permit. Really, it's not just some bureaucratic change, it's a huge system change that I think is going to have a big and overwhelming majority of negative effects. And that's what we want to eliminate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u162	Thank you. Mr Ivan Adamec, Mr Roman Onderka will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I just wanted to respond to what you said here. I want the secretary to say it publicly, not on the committee, because it's going to get lost, that's for sure, and it's nothing that's against anything. And as for the gradual steps that you've been talking about, I didn't mean it that way. I think the reasons why these construction agencies have such delays are different from the reason that the construction office should just be transferred directly under the state, under the super office. I think we've tried this once before, it wasn't that long ago when we transferred part of social services to the office of work, and I think it's alarming, this. Let's just not do it if we don't have to do it. Let's do this in the existing public administration boundaries. I don't blame the Home Office for writing that report the way it was written, that's actually part of the Home Office's competence. And I certainly don't think that under the office, under the state, the construction office will work better than at the construction offices today, which are within the designated municipalities, despite the problems with the small authorities, I understand that, but that can be resolved differently. So it's just an explanation. I think that's a serious step, and I wanted to point out that we don't spill a baby here with a bathtub. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u164	Thank you. Mr Roman Onderka and his two minutes to comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u165	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, I have a message for my colleague Bendl through Mr President. Let's do politics, but let's do it fair and square, partner. And forgive the stupid comments that the Home Office doesn't care, which is probably why the Home Secretary isn't here. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Home Secretary is not here because he is in isolation because he still has covid or is still infected with covid and, from this point of view, cannot attend the hearing in the Chamber of Deputies. If he wasn't sick, he'd be here. And that the Minister, the Ministry of the Interior, is interested, you can certainly see this from the comments the Ministry of the Interior made on this matrix in its discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u166	Thank you. Member Petr Bendl. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u167	I thank my colleague, through Mr President, for confirming that the Ministry of the Interior is claiming material from the impact study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u168	Thank you. Member Mikuláš Ferjenčík. In fact, or in a debate?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Firstly, I wanted to thank the Minister for replying in the debate, as I had hoped. However, unfortunately, he did not have time to note some of my questions. I have tried to minimize this, but I really consider some of these things essential. I'll repeat them. Fiction of consent - there is a fundamental difference between the fiction of consent for public administration, or for public investors when there are those institutions under public control, that is, there can be, let's say, at a political level influence what will be built and what will not be built, so the public has some control over which highways will stand and which will not. While at the moment we introduce the consent fiction for private entities, if there is any deliberate delay in office, then, of course, the other interests will not be protected. That's what my question was about. Then I didn't get the answer to the question of defining public participation in the proceedings, that is, if it concerns anyone other than the immediate neighbours. I also asked if the deadline for the mid-July 2023 was realistic at the pace of the functioning of the state administration in our country. Then I asked if this was the way I understood from the brochure - which, I stress, constitutes a construction law. It's not like I'm taking some unrelated document. I assumed that the brochure was distributed to us so that we could study the content without the need to break the legislative text. So I wanted to ask if I understand correctly that a person will have to go around the 14 offices that aren't integrated, and then he'll have one application for the building office, and then he'll take care of the integrated places, or if it works any other way. If necessary, let the Deputy Minister answer when she has already agreed to participate. I also asked about the exclusion of the abolition of the zoning plan backwards, which is a really important matter and may have a significant impact on certain litigations on people's lives around the areas where changes in the zoning plan have been abolished. I asked about the abuse of law and compensation for changes in the zoning plan. Then I asked about the definition of the built-up area, i.e. whether there was a project prepared to do it, how the definition of the built-up area will be digitized nationwide. And then one more question, which I have in response to the debate, what happened, and that is... [[The MP is silent because of the debate group at the rapporteur's desk.]] And that's the question of what you're gonna do if those county authorities don't give you those offices where the officials are sitting right now. Because they're regional authorities now, they have superiors there. The question is, if these people even want to go to the state administration, if they even have this ambition, they can be happy in the collective, they can deal with other agendas. Plus, a lot of county authorities have space issues and welcome their offices to loosen up like this. So they certainly don't have to be motivated to rent those offices to the state construction office at once. So what are you gonna do if they don't rent them to you? And the last question was the trial fiction. I will ask again for answers, preferably in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u170	Thank you. Mr Kubíček reports with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Because I see that we have a turbulent discussion, I dare on behalf of two MPs, YES and ČSSD, to propose a territorial meeting and a vote after 19th and after 21st hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u172	I will vote immediately on this procedural proposal. I've started the vote. Who's in? It's the vote after 19 and after 21 o'clock. Who's against it? In voting order number 6, 95 Members registered, for 58, against 26. The motion was accepted. At this point in the debate, I have no one else registered. Mr. Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u173	Thank you for the floor. I propose that this press be interrupted by Friday the 13th. I think it's a good date.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u174	I will also have this procedural proposal voted on. I'll check you all out. Please log in with your cards. We will vote on Mr Ferjenčík's procedural proposal to interrupt this point by Friday 13 November. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote order number 7 entered 90 Members, for 28, against 49. The motion was denied. At this point, I don't see anyone enrolled in the general debate. I am ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in the Minister's final words? The rapporteur? [[Not interested.]] So there is no interest and we will proceed to the vote on the proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u175	Thank you. Mr President, I believe I was handing it over to you. There was, as far as I know, a motion to interrupt the meeting in the presence of the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u176	That's already been voted on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u177	It was voted. Okay, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u178	We have passed the procedure correctly, Mr Feri has asked for a vote without delay. So here's the motion to return the proposal to the plaintiff. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 8 registered by 93 Members, for 31, against 49. The motion was denied. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The guarantee committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. [[Organisational]] Mr Feri's proposal is here for the House to designate a guarantee committee for public administration and regional development. So first, I'm going to vote on the draft organizational committee on the commandment. [[Dissenting voices from the O.R.]] I'm sorry. I will have Mr Dominik Feri's counter-proposal put to the vote, so that this law is assigned to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a committee of guarantee. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 9, 93 Members signed in for 42, against 4. The motion was denied. [[18.10 hours]] We will vote on the proposal from the Organisational Committee to order this press to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 10. Registered 94 Members, for 54, against 29. The motion was accepted. This press was assigned to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order this proposal to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a further committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees? Mr Dominik Feri has a motion on the commandment to the Constitutional and Legal Committee. This is Mrs Balcarová, please say it on the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u179	I would like to request the commandment of this amendment to discuss the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u180	Another suggestion? Mr Kupka, Mr Bartoš. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u181	I would also like to propose a law for discussion to the Constitutional and Legal Committee. At the same time, in one more entry, I would like to ask for a period of 100 days for committee discussions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u182	I've got that down here, too. Mr Bartoš? Nothing. Okay. Next, I don't see anybody, so let's vote. We will vote on the commandment of this press to the Public Administration Committee. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 11. 94 Members signed up for 91, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. The next vote will be the commandment of this press to the constitutionally-legal committee. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 12. 94 Members signed up for 85, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, the last vote is the commandment of the Committee on the Environment. I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 13. Registered 94 Members, for 37, versus 8. The motion was denied. I note that this press has been assigned to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and to the Constitutional and Legal Committee. There have been proposals for an extension of 120, 100, 90 and 80 days. On... 120, 100, 90 and 80 days. [[Voices from the diaper.]] All these time limits may be voted only with the agreement of the appellant. So I'll ask the plaintiff if he agrees to extend the deadline to 120 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u183	I agree for 100 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u184	I'm asking if you agree...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u185	Not 120. There. [[You don't agree.]] Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u186	You don't agree on 120 days. Okay. There's another motion to extend the deadline to 100 days. [[Deputy Prime Minister: Yes, I agree.]] I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 14. 94 Members signed up for 86, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. We have thus dealt with all the voting proposals for this press. I end the first reading of this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u187	Good evening. We'll proceed with approved item number two. Mr Benešík - vote? [[A voice from the diaper.]] With priority rights. So before opening the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the Gesture Committee. The construction process takes place in public authorities, we all know that. The Chamber of Deputies has a Committee on Public Administration. Moreover, this committee is a partner of the Ministry of Regional Development. By not assigning this to the Committee on Public Administration, the government majority showed how seriously it took this issue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u189	With priority rights, Vice-President Vojtěch Filip. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room.]] And Prime Minister Chvojka with priority then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u190	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, Mrs and gentlemen, I do not know how to pass on the information, but I remind you that the decision to be assigned to the Committee on Economic Affairs is to be voted unanimously by the Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. representatives of all the clubs who came to the Organising Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u191	Now President Chvojka with priority, then President Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u192	Good evening, colleagues. Now we are going to comment on something that many of us have already said about. But it doesn't matter, repetition is the mother of wisdom. I am just pointing out that Mr Benešík, through the President, was wrong. The ČSSD as a government club voted for the guarantee committee as a public administration committee. I myself said here a few hours ago that it is logical for the construction law to be on the Committee on Public Administration as on the Committee on Guarantees, that it is customary that this committee is a partner of the Ministry of Regional Development, that is, all our seven Members today voted in favour of the Guarantee Committee on Construction Law being a Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. We think, and we still think, since it's already been voted that this press belongs there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u193	President Bartoš. Please note that we are outside the point, outside the debate, only priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u194	I'd just like to confirm Mr. Chvojka's words. We followed the vote. Thank you for the votes. It has clearly proved that there is always a backup majority for similar proposals, and so it was in the last parliamentary term, only with some other groups. I just wanted to say, and it has been said here since Mr.Faltýnek, and I have told him how it is, it has been said again by President KSČM Filip, both our members of the organizing committee, Vojtěch Pikal and Lukáš Černohorský, were in quarantine because of the covid, unable to participate. So, unanimously, of all those present, not, the representatives of all the MPs voted in favour, the second time it was said here, and it is not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u195	No one with priority rights... Mr. Mr. Benešík reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u196	Mr President, I should have said most of the government's majority, because indeed the ČSSD Members have maintained their cool head and expertise and have seen that this draft simply belongs to the Public Administration Committee, so if it has touched them, I apologize to them for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-05-ps2017-064-01-001-001.u197	Excellent. So I'm opening a point.
