ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u1	489. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 58th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of 44 responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpellation, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. And we will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. First of all, there is an interview for Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, interpelling Mr Jakub Michálek on the matter "Can you please tell me what your programme is?". Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 687. The discussion of this reply has been suspended until further discussion of written interventions, i.e. until today, until 17. 9. I am opening the debate, but I do not see Mr Michálek, so I assume he is excused, and there will therefore be no further debate on this interpellation, and the House will not deliver an opinion on it. There is also an interpelation by Mrs Olga Richterová on the reduction of fare for disabled pensioners, which is the House press of 707. However, we interrupted that in the presence of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is not present, so the interruption is ongoing. Likewise, there is an interview between Mrs Richterová on the necessary legislative regulation for municipalities implementing comprehensive housing support. This is the House Press 709. It is also interrupted into the presence of the Prime Minister and this interruption also lasts. We are now coming to an interview with the Prime Minister, the House's press 711 to 729. On Thursday, 30 January 2020, we merged the debate on the responses to the interpelations, those of the House prints 711 to 729 which were all submitted on the question of interpellation to the Prime Minister, to which the Prime Minister Andrej Babiš replied. We dealt with these interventions on Thursday, 5 March 2020, when we interrupted the merged debate. Today we will be dealing with House prints 711, 712, 714, 715, 726, 727, 728, for which Members have complied with § 112 para. 6 which notes that, in the absence of them, there is no need to discuss the response to its intervention. Before we continue, it is necessary to find out which interpelling Members are present and have complied with this provision today. Mr Profant, if I have all the information, is not present, nor is Mr Navrkal, Mr Polanský - I do not see, Mr Michálek - we have already checked and have not arrived, Mr Bartoš is not present, Mrs Richterová is not present, and Mr Třešňák is not present either. As far as I know, some other interpellations of this point have been withdrawn, so we have dealt with this interpellation, it will not be discussed and the House will no longer give its opinion. And that's how we got on. And there is an interpelation for the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. This is an interpelation to which former Minister of Transport Vladimír Kremlík responded, to the interpellation of Ivan Adamec on the preparation of the construction of the continuation of the D11 motorway in the direction to Jaroměře via Trutnov to the state border with Poland. Interpelation, together with the reply, shall be submitted as a House press of 744. And I would like to start the debate if Mr Adamec is present. The Member is excused, in which case he is not present, and the House will not deal with it or give an opinion. And next up, there's an interview for the Deputy Prime Minister and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, who I welcome again, responded to Mr Vojtěch Munzar's interview on the issue of fines to entrepreneurs. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 761. I'm opening the debate. And the Member will probably ask the question and repeat the first. Please. Yes, Madam Secretary, I'd like you to take a seat at the rapporteur's desk so that we can get this going faster. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. Hello, colleagues and colleagues, hello, Madam Secretary. I am very glad that you have arrived from the government's meeting to my interpellation, which has been in the system since the day of your response, that is, since February, so it can happen that it no longer has such relevance after that time, it does not have the strength to solve other problems. But I, colleagues, colleagues and Madam Secretary, will try to show you why this is important to me now and that it will come back to meaning once the EET is re-established and when the third and fourth wave that this government has pushed through comes. Because it's one of the absurd fines... My interpelation concerns one of the absurd fines that the Financial Administration has imposed on businessmen on the running belt, and it shows that it is not true that EET is just an instrument for issuing receipts and controlling the payment of taxes, as the government has tried to tell us for several years here, but it is indeed an instrument for making the business environment in the Czech Republic hostile by the state administration, that it is an instrument for the financial administration to give absurd fines for absurd errors that have absolutely nothing to do with trying to circumvent the obligation to pay taxes. And the Minister's reply, which I will read to you here, will show you what the EET's main motive was, what it is. [[9.10 hours]] One restaurant - and I wanted to show just the absurdity on this case - one restaurant received a fine from the Financial Administration of CZK 5,000 for publishing a summary - issued a comprehensive receipt for a single table. And the expense of the guests in one time period paid after this period was in total the order of the hundred crowns. When the government introduced the EET, it argued, in particular, that it was an instrument to control the payment of taxes and the settlement of the business environment. That is why I asked the Minister: How did an entrepreneur by issuing a summary receipt with EET circumvent his duty to pay taxes? How did an entrepreneur distort the business environment by doing so? If, according to the Ministry of Finance's management, it's a process of measuring procedure and whether it's the proper procedure for the Financial Administration controllers to sit at the table and monitor the meetings of the surrounding guests and their actions at the side tables. What was my surprise when the following statement appeared in the secretary's reply. Because I expected the Minister to write to me that it was excess, that there was no serious error and that he was going to look into this whole situation. So instead, the Minister replied to me: "The issue of a mass receipt denies the fundamental principle of EET, that is to get relevant information about individual taxpayers' sales." So not to secure the payment of taxes, but to provide information about the individual businessman's actions. I mean, confirmation of what most honest entrepreneurs don't like. Because, in that sentence, the Minister has confirmed that it is indeed the concern that it is an online control tool, the online stalking of entrepreneurs and their behaviour, that it is the main principle of EET. And in her reply, the Minister answered me in this way. And in the same spirit, the answer continues: "The customer has no opportunity to verify whether or not the sales have been registered. The fact whether or not a specific breach of the registration obligation leads to an artificial reduction in its tax liability is irrelevant in this respect.' So it is not relevant whether or not there will be an artificial reduction in his tax liability. Firstly, it is not true that the customer does not have the opportunity to verify whether the sales were charged when the receipt was actually issued. We're not talking about a fine case for not having a receipt issued, but for the fact that a summary receipt was issued for one total expense at a table. Secondly, it is essential to comply with tax obligations. Because if the businessman issued the receipt, it doesn't lead to circumvention of tax obligations. So I consider this from the Financial Administration as merely a bullying practice that it applies to our businessmen. I was very amused by the construction in the Minister's reply, where it is said that "at first glance, however, such a small breach of legal obligations can only mask systematic and sophisticated tax cuts" And a quote from the next part of the answer: "The legal authority affects the creation and maintenance of a hole in a system that can be freely drained from taxes by considerable means. " Well, I imagined it all sophisticatedly as a businessman makes a sum total of receipts for one table where guests have a few beers, one beer gets lost in there somewhere, making millions on a ferrari and a yacht. Let's put a finger on him. In fact, only a Financial Administration official can invent such a structure. And again, I'm stressing that we're not talking about a case where there's been a cut in sales. Only the receipt was issued for one table, for the consumption which took place in one period and which was paid at the end of such a period of time. What bothered me most about the whole thing was the fact that it was not the control purchase of the controllers, but the auditors observed the meetings of the surrounding guests at the neighbouring table. How is it possible, Madam Secretary, in a democratic society that controllers act like secret police and control the guests' meetings and thereby disturb their privacy? You are defending this in your reply by saying that this procedure is not a stalking process, but a legitimate legal procedure that serves to determine the taxpayer's real cash income and correct assessment of the tax. And where, Madam Secretary, is there any privacy? Where is the adequacy of the procedure? We are, and this is a classic example of this, we have recently seen that instead of protecting citizens' rights from state power, they are once again coming to the word of a tendency to assert state power at the expense of citizens. And that's the system you, your government, using similar tools, are planning and constantly building here. But Madam Secretary, the purpose does not justify the means. Protection of privacy is not a value to which we should resign. And proportionality isn't a dirty word. But unfortunately, the state authorities are gradually disappearing. And you are planning and strengthening this strengthening of state power at the expense of citizens. For example, by constantly having an uncritical approach and permanently defending similar disproportionate financial management practices. And don't be mad at me, giving me a ticket for putting on a table a summary bill for the guests who were there and they were eating together, that really seems like an disproportionate thrill of entrepreneurs. I trust you will answer these complaints and reservations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u3	Thank you. I believe the Minister will sign up for the debate. Yes, no one else is checking in, so please, it's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Hello, Mr. Ambassador. Unfortunately, it's been here a long time, but it's not even my fault. You know I always answered you in time, and I'm here today when I got the chance. If you don't mind, it would probably be a waste of your time and mine if I read here what I sent you in writing. It was a long answer to about four pages, so I'm just going to respond to your written speech now, and I'm referring, of course, to the written answer, as it was sent to you for an interpelation conducted under number 235. Well, I would like to say that the problem is, of course, very difficult - and I can't get to the file, you know, I've repeated it here several times, I have no legal instrument, and I'll never break the law, which means I can't assess the specificity of the action. So I have - or the specificity of the case so that I can respond to it with more detail, so I actually reacted in general. In general, I explained to you the principles of the Sales Recording Act, how it goes there, how the receipt must actually be issued, what payment. That it is actually a principle as a rule, the principle of mass payments is based on the nature of the matter, as the Act on Recording of Sales, which went through the ordinary legislative process, has been set, and was actually confronted and confronted with the Constitution, constitutionally, by the Constitutional Court's decision on it. And the way it's set, it would... it wouldn't be possible to do that. Really issue these receipts on bulk - here in this case it was about collecting a table in the restaurant. So it's against principles. If we were to make this a general rule of what happened in that particular case, I don't know, so I can't deal with it at this point. You said that sanctions were simply imposed, there is - you used the word "faggot." I'm not exactly gonna interpret that. I'd just like to say, in general, that from 1. 12. 2016 until 27 January 2020, when I actually, when we sometimes responded to your interpelation at that time, so on this date, of course, if you are interested, I will be happy to give you specific data, but you know that for some time now the EET has been disabled, but of course I will give you the data at any time. I can give you the structure of the sanctions, the size of the sanctions, we have all the statistics. Thus, in this reference period, the EET 67 759 error was found and, of which, in 15 957, in less than 16 thousand, penalties were imposed. So in 24 percent of the cases, the others were dealing with either an arrangement, an explanation, a warning. So only 24 percent has been sanctioned. If you want, I don't have at the moment, I'll give you the structure of the sanctions, and you'll find that the vast majority of those sanctions are actually imposed at the lower legal rate. This means that the higher amounts or, where appropriate, the extreme solutions, such as the closure of the establishment, were indeed very, very exceptional and very marginal. [[9.20 hours]] So I just want to say that the EET really is not an instrument primarily aimed at sanctions. It's supposed to set up the system. We're behind this system, but you can see from the structure of sanctions for the decisive period that it's not a dramatic number. If you're interested, I'll send you the statistics of the numbers in the graphs as you want, and you'll see for yourself that it's not really like that. So most of the misconduct is dealt with without penalty, notice or advice. Then you... I explained to you in a written reply why it is not possible to issue a mass receipt. I explained this without knowing the nature of the problem that was going on here, that would deny the basic principle of the record of sales, that is, getting relevant information about the individual cash sales of the taxpayer. And I pointed out that the aim of the sales record is to get real-time information about such sales of a taxpayer that is difficult to track in practice, and I pointed out that this is a request... or a request to obtain this information, and the evidence as an instrument serves as a tool that it has its place in the tax administration system, and I referred to the very found by the Constitutional Court, which clearly confirmed this. Because if acceptance was, and now I actually answered in the general terms, whether this could be the principle of whether this could be followed in the control activity, and I rejected it and I stand by it, because if the tax administrator accepted the issue of this one bill in bulk sales for more cash sales, then, of course, the acceptance of that principle, and now let's not just narrow it down to the collection of the table in the restaurant to which your interpellation was headed, Mr. Ambassador, would then have to be accepted in other business models. So if we were to make an ad absurdum argument, this fact could actually lead to all cash payments of one amount, thereby denying the basic principle of the record of sales. [[unintelligible]] You're still in your oral performance - and I'm really cutting it short because I don't want to read the long answer here - you're still talking about stalking. The principles of the local investigation, the search activity must be perfectly in line with both the law of registration of sales, namely § 33, which refers to the tax rules, and the tax rules then allow the use of all available relevant methods such as local investigation, the search activity, within which the tax administrator finds data relating directly to property ratios, other facts. That means what you described is a classic search activity. That really is no limit. Today's search activity within the EET - not now, it's off - is happening so that the controllers connect it with analytical activity, that is, they are now able to connect directly on site to the system and there to check that the receipts appear in the system, confront it and often simply in such local investigations... And if local investigations are going to do that, they already have some signals and some analysis from analytical activity, because there really is no room for such a large number of tax entities to go to local investigations or ad hoc checks, but it is simply based on some analyst, which means it has to do with the fact that they often go to control activities. If you look at the activities of the Czech Trade Inspection Authority and it works for a much longer time, its control purchases before the control purchases under the EET Act are the same principle. The Czech Trade Inspection also goes there, also takes lunch or gets served and actually observes that the receipt was properly issued. It's just the principle of search activity, it's not stalking. Today, the controller simply sits there, plugs in the EET system and is able to monitor whether or not the individual receipts were entered there. And often it may even leave, or it may not carry out a check if it doesn't find any breach. This is the principle of search activity, local investigations and control and is completely comparable to the similar activities of other public authorities, which are responsible for similar activities in another subject of activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u5	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík joined the debate next, then Mr Munzar. Ambassador Stanjura wants to exercise priority rights? No, okay. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that my colleague Munzar has raised this subject here, which I think is very important. This means the problem that the Financial Administration, in addition to trying to prosecute entities that violate tax obligations, is still completely unnecessary and pointlessly annoying and, to a large extent, bullying entities that just make some very small bureaucratic mistake, or often it is not a mistake, only those controllers are extremely strict in some cases. I'm going to give a second example of the kind of behavior Mr. Munzar gave in the interpelation. This is what I quote from the Financial Administration's reply to my question. "In the case where the auditors have found a breach of the obligation to issue a receipt without any further breach being detected, the fines are on average around CZK 2,500, i.e. 0.5 percent of the legal margin." What does that mean by human language? The businessman normally records the sales in electronic records. He'll pay all the taxes, but since he didn't offer the receipt actively enough to the customer, he'll get a fine of CZK 2,500, and the Financial Administration still has the nerve to claim that it's a down payment because they could give him half a million. That's a crazy attitude! Here, the person who hasn't done anything wrong from the point of view of common sense, simply admitted the sales, is in electronic records, which may be why there's electronic records so that taxes don't be cut, so he'll normally admit the sales, so he'll get CZK 2,500 just for not offering the receipt actively enough to the checker who made the checkout purchase. Still, as I've heard from practice about the checks going on, it's sometimes the intention that the controller behaves in such a way that he indicates that a customer is in a hurry and doesn't want a receipt, and it's about catching the salesman instead of finding out if he's cheating on taxes or cheating. So we have a situation here, and that's thousands of cases, I've got it here... 8,050 cases of people who received an average fine of 2,500, even though they had properly admitted the sale. I would like to appeal too much to you, Madam Secretary, to appeal again to the Financial Administration, with the fact that, first of all, it is perfectly normal to issue a receipt for the entire table. And the whole construction that it's against the law to issue a receipt for the entire table, and it violates the EET rules, it's completely insane. Is it perfectly normal for a waiter to come in and ask: Together or separately? If you say together, they'll put a receipt on your desk. And I don't understand how in the Czech Republic it's possible that someone will give a fine for it, for it was combined, for those people to share the sales, which is a common practice in pubs. Sometimes I go to the pub, and this just happens every day. And give 5,000 bottles for it, it's totally fucked up! And say here that if you don't do this, then they'll issue a receipt for the whole day's sales. Who would marry her? [[The reaction from the diaper. The speaker laughs.]] Probably Andrej to put it in his expense, as Mr Stanjura tells me, otherwise it doesn't make any sense. Nor do I ask you to stop punishing people who normally record sales, except they don't offer receipts actively enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u7	Thank you. I'm gonna ask if we can hold off on the poison dictionary so it doesn't go anywhere we don't want to go. Mr Munzar, who is next registered, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u8	Thank you. I would like to thank Mr Ferjenčík for following up on me. Madam Secretary, you always have an amazing gift to bring this debate somewhere else. Here's just the basic problem. You've been saying all along that EET is a tool to control compliance with tax obligations. And here, as on the running belt, the Financial Administration gives fines for - as my colleague Ferjenčík said - minor bureaucratic misconduct, not for trying to circumvent its tax obligations. And we can talk about the fines I've been talking about here, which we've been talking about a couple of times. We can talk about unfair fines here, like not transferring time from summer to winter or backwards. I don't remember that. Or a minute difference between selling and registering sales. We can talk here about the great error of the Financial Administration, the way in which it disproportionately approached one wedding, the newlyweds and the guests when it called on them. And that's why we can talk about how individual controllers walk and provoke individual restaurants and traders and try to catch them at all costs. I don't know that they might be able to meet some of the quotas they have in the Financial Administration regarding fines and the like. You're constantly leaning on the Constitutional Court. I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that we must not forget the dissenting position of the part of the constitutional judges who have pointed out precisely this issue, that it is a major intervention, an electronic record of sales, into freedom of business, and they have pointed out that by this law, the Financial Administration, the State Administration, is getting into the hands of a large instrument, a great power, in the way in which I have said it in human terms - to observe, fine and make life difficult for individual entrepreneurs. You used an absurd example here that then all payments could be made by one amount. But here we're talking about spending one table at a time, and that the guests were issued a bill, and for that, the restaurant was fined. I don't know, co-workers, co-workers, if any of you guys go out for a beer every once in a while. But it's, as my colleague Ferjenčík said, perfectly normal that when five or ten friends meet at the same table, they'll have a beer together, and then they'll get one receipt, and they'll split the payment. Why in God's name do we have to fine for that? And, Madam Secretary, you haven't answered me how by issuing a summary receipt, the tax entity is circumventing its tax obligations. I mean, he's issued the receipt, he's logged the receipt, so how does he get around his tax obligations? You crossed over, or you answered me, to the inspectors, that it was a search operation. Well, I really don't think the task of controlling the Financial Administration is to monitor the meetings of the surrounding guests in restaurants and pubs. I don't think that's really their job. And if they find out that the entity has issued a receipt, I think their activities are over there and they are not supposed to follow up on the actions of outsiders who are not tax entities for the purposes of the EET. So that's my point. I will, of course, propose that the House pursuant to our Rules of Procedure § 112 para. 5 disagreed with your answer. I propose that we, as the House, show entrepreneurs and business environments that we do not care how the Financial Administration and the State Power treats its entrusted competences and how it uses them and exploits them against individual entrepreneurs. I think that the task of every democratic policy is to hinder the power of the government, because the natural character of the government is its expansion. So our job is to slow down and find proportionality. This should be a primary task for a member of the government, but if you approach it - and I said so at the end of my speech, Madam Secretary - uncritically and defend everything, then it is up to the Chamber of Deputies to give this signal. And she gave it to both the Financial Administration and our entrepreneurs. That's why I suggest we disagree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u9	Thank you. I've noticed the proposal. Mr Stanjura has now declared himself in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u10	Thank you for the floor. A general remark first. Perhaps we should clarify the position of the Financial Administration in general. That if, in my opinion, a legitimate criticism comes, an example, a responsible politician, the finance minister will say - I can't find out anything, that's by law what you want me to do, I won't break the law. So the Financial Administration can do whatever it wants? Who bears the political responsibility for the faulty and illegal decisions of the Financial Administration? Nobody. In the time of the financial jihad, at the time of Mr Janeček's infamous Chief of Financial Administration, you, Madam Secretary, were the Deputy Minister responsible for the area of finance. Even the Financial Administration, if I'm not mistaken. What time did you take to the minister's office? Who in the Financial Administration was punished for unlawful decisions that were finally decided by an independent court? No one's doing it my way. Nothing happened, the investigation is over, the sentence is over, forget it. It's unbelievable. At his own request, the former Director-General was relieved of his duties, as long as I remember the official justification for leaving office at the time, and for what she was doing illegally under him, the Financial Administration was "punished" with the fact that he was the head of the Financial Administration in the South Bohemia Region. Unbelievable! Really unbelievable. Today and daily, we learn from the media the strange, bullying, illegal practices of the Financial Administration, nothing is happening. The other day, I read the sad story of a guy who was told by the Financial Administration that he had no debt to come back after four years and tell him -- sorry, we were wrong. We were wrong. I'm sorry. The man lost his family, his money, his housing. Sorry, we were wrong. Unbelievable. Well, that's a general point. Now to the EET. Madam Secretary offered us detailed statistics in her speech. For myself and for our club, I say we're interested in them so we can debate the numbers. We'll be very happy to receive them. If memory doesn't deceive me - I apologize for inaccuracies - the introduction of the EET also created a new 600 seats in the EET Financial Administration. Madam Secretary, aside from the statistics, if you could assess the costs of the Financial Administration and therefore the taxpayers of these 600 labor forces. Andrej Babiš, as Minister of Finance, spoke of the same. Maybe 300, 400 were accepted, I don't know. That's why I'm asking for the information. I'm not saying it's true. I am based on the public appearance of the then Minister of Finance, today the Prime Minister. And now to the EET. I was expecting that we'd already have a proposal on the table to postpone the third and fourth waves. It's not, so I have good news, Madam Secretary. We'll do it next week. You don't have to write it. I trust you'll support it. Or do we think that in January, those to whom the third and fourth waves are due will have no other concern than to handle the EET? And then, the Financial Administration cancels and actually tells us how to live. Until today, not until today, until my colleague, Mr Munzar, published it, I had no idea that it was illegal for the Financial Administration to pay for the table. I'd like to see the financial officials act if they have a family party, for example, they invite grandma, grandpa, brother, mom, daddy, kids, their partners, like 20 people because they're having a birthday, so they invite them. They eat something, they drink something, and then according to the Financial Administration, they have to come and say - well, Pepa had three beers, one stew and two rolls - one bill. His mistress drives, so she had one birell, one juice, one coffee, one stew, we all actually had one, but she didn't eat bread, so she didn't have a roll. That's how the birthday boy gets 20 bills, that's how he's gonna pay, and the Financial Administration is happy because that's what the law says. [[9.40 hours]] Vice-President said we shouldn't use a word of language. I do not know if it is on the head - I find it a very moderate expression by Mr Ferjenčík on the description of this situation. On your head. It's written and very moderate. If we really wanted to describe how we felt, those words would be a lot sharper, and we would certainly have slipped into some general Czech and inconvenient or indecent expressions. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we are very lucky that EET is not legal in the House. You guys have ANO club parties, too. [[The secretary responds from the rapporteur's desk.]] All right. Well, there's no EET, but let's be a role model. You be the role model. Next time there's an ANO party and you're gonna get 77, one of you will apologize, so I hope you'll ask for 77 receipts and that no one will pay for the whole table, or for the whole restaurant, or for the whole democracy, or for Club V. Because if EET were here, it would be illegal. Do you really think there's an disproportionate expression on the head? Or there are corporate events. The company invites the employees and pays for it. It's a tax-free expense, I agree with that, that's okay. But that poor pub guy who's gonna have a corporate party on his premises, and now I'm not just talking about small companies, there's big companies, over a hundred people... How many people go to Capak when there's a company event? Someone's paying for it. Does everyone get it? [[The Minister is responding again.]] And I guess that's where the EET must be, right? Can you instigate the Financial Administration, Madam Secretary? Motivation! So give them an incentive to check the mass action on the Cap's Nest and find out how many accounts have been issued. I don't care how much money was spent, how much money was paid, unlike the state. I wonder if there were 1,000 receipts or 2,000 receipts. If not, then why did the poor guy get a negative penalty of CZK 2,500? He could have gotten £500,000. You can't be serious! I don't know who wrote that down for you. Ask the clerk who wrote it, or the Financial Administration guy who decided on it how... If he ever attended a party, a group event. Maybe he's a saint who's never been to an event, so he didn't pay. Maybe he's a cheap guy who's always sitting at the table, so he's checking and he's thinking, he's got three beers, he's got three beers, I've only had one, he's asked, we're paying separately, I've only had one. 25. No, I'm not gonna do 50, I'm gonna do 25. But that's not normal at all. You can't argue with that. I would expect an entirely simple answer: "Mr. Ambassador, this is an unacceptable excess, it is an individual's error. I've asked the Chief of Financial Administration to give a methodical order that this is the right one." I understand that you didn't give that methodical instruction earlier, because who in common sense would have thought that you had to give every guest? So I understand that there was no methodical instruction. But since a clerk made it up, it's time to respond. And that's not interfering. [[The Minister is responding.]] I told you to ask the head of the Financial Administration. She'll make up her mind. You can't order this. I understand that. And this is what I would expect, a simple answer like that. We would say thank you, Madam Secretary, we are glad to finally agree on such fundamental things, human things that have nothing to do with political struggle. No. The financial administration is innocent, it's wrong at most. We've lost 60 courts, we've withdrawn billions and detained illegally, but that's just what happens. We're sorry. We were wrong. Did you punish anyone? No. No. I can't do that. I can't say. Not you, Madam Secretary. I understand that. None of us are calling after that either. But then what good is it for the Financial Administration? [[unintelligible]] What's it for? When he can't really do anything. And I'm going back to the introduction and the general introduction. Let us debate, for example, on the board of the Budget Committee, not on the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, on the role of Financial Administration. Collecting taxes. I understand that. But who controls it in a democratic society? And if we come to the conclusion that no one, or only - is not little - but only an independent court, is always going to lose the taxpayer in the unequal fight of the tax administration versus the taxpayer, because it is an uneven duel from the logic of the matter. And believe me, Madam Secretary, I think you know there's a lot more of these excesses. But many, I would say, most taxpayers do not want to argue with the Financial Administration precisely because they are aware that it will simply become an unconscious bureaucratic omission. Some account might be wrong to charge. It's not always. Far from it. On the contrary. It's special because no one does it consciously. It just happens. And few dare to go into dispute with the Financial Administration because they're afraid that the spotlight will focus on them, they'll kneel on them, they'll be checked for ten years of VAT, three years of income tax, I don't know what, road tax. And woe, if they pay a day later. And so on. And how did they account for it as a repair of property when, according to our interpretation, it's an evaluation? You know, we often debate that the line is very thin and it's impossible to determine exactly when it's a fix and when it's an evaluation. It's a practical thing that's not quite clear. You've got a company house, you've got windows in it, now you're gonna change them. It's not a cheap thing, it's a fix. But if you put a marquise on them? The auditors don't agree anymore, because the Marquise wasn't there. Is that an evaluation? Or is it a fix? Can I apply it this year in the tax period? Or am I going to write it off by the write-off group for x years? And I understand that this needs to be assessed individually, that there's no way to do that... So all I'm saying is that even honest taxpayers just have mistakes in accounting. But I believe that in the vast majority of cases, they are not intentional. Their aim is not to shorten the tax, to cheat the state in some way, but vice versa. But, let's face it, and unfortunately, it is, and it has been since Mr. Janeček - all taxpayers are dirty suspects. Everyone. You too. Even if it doesn't seem like it to you today. They're all dirty suspects. And they all want to steal. And we're here to punish such illegal behavior as someone paying the table bill. 2,500 - what's that? Well, make sure the clerk gets 2,500 less, at least one paycheck, or twice. Next time, he'll change his mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u11	Thank you. We will continue the debate. Madam Secretary reporting. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u12	Thank you for the floor. You took it wide, so I'm gonna have to go wide. Of course, sanctions - I will deliver statistics, President Stanjur. We got it, you're gonna get it. Place was 300 on EET at Financial Administration and 100 at Customs Administration. [[Member Stanjura responds from his position.]] It doesn't matter. I'm specifying that. You didn't vehemently promote it, the 600. Now, to the tables, please. The problem is this. You invite your mates to the pub and decide it's your birthday to pay for them. Well, of course there'll be one receipt. One table - it doesn't have to be a table - one sales - one person - one receipt. That's the principle. Family party, wedding - one receipt is paid. One receipt. The problem was probably -- I can't go into the case -- and I think it's an isolated problem that it won't be any frequent cases -- that there was one receipt, as I understood from your interpelation, for people paying more. And that's a violation of the law. The principle is: one person - one receipt - one payment. You can go behind the whole pub if you invite them all. That's the principle, and that's how it works. Just to explain. Now you've opened up a whole bunch of things here. Before the holidays, we discussed the Committee on Budgets. I'm sure we'll discuss it. I'll just say in general. I'm not saying that things didn't happen, that would be very humble of me. That it was always going well. In the end, a number of cases have reached lawsuits. It is a matter of self-esteem of the Financial Administration, if there is a specific management - and they must proceed - to compensate for the damage. You know it's coming to the Treasury. You've asked me a few times about statistics. I might add. There aren't many cases. And even fewer are those that the court of civil proceedings will recognise. Then, of course, they can be regression claims and so on. [[9.50 hours]] In general. On January 1, 2013, Mr Kalousek, President of the TOP 09 MP, was the Minister of Finance, and the Financial Administration was definitely depoliticated from the Ministry of Finance. It became a system of independent public administration and I say it was a step in the right direction. And you can grill me here from morning to night, if I'm the Treasury Secretary, I'll never allow political influence on the Financial Administration. So it's not alibiism, it's an absolute strict depoliticization of the Financial Administration and the influence of the Ministry of Finance, not even the Minister, it's precisely defined by the Act on Financial Administration and the Tax Code. And these laws are unbreakable. That means there's some possibility of surveillance, not living files, there's some possibility of a review under some conditions, but of course they're strictly given. There is a possibility - now I have made great use of it in the context of the crisis - general pardons, etc. But that's it. And nothing else is acceptable. I can't, and I will never, interfere with the powers of the Financial Administration. But since you're asking here, maybe those backlogs of the EET sanctions, maybe that's where CEO Richterová set up a methodical instruction that she said: "In these types of violations of negligible, etc. You will not impose sanctions. This is her competence and, of course, she has to define them methodically in some way. That is why we only have 24 percent of the sanctions for the whole decisive period that works for us EET. And just one more comment, because we could debate this here for hours, and I'm sure we'll still be in the coming months, when this subject, given - well, I'm not going to put it on the table right now - we're definitely going to have a debate, so I just want to remind you of one thing. Before yesterday, Mr. Chairman Stanjur, you evaluated individual government measures. And you have highly evaluated, and I thank you for that, it was very correct from you, you have highly assessed the compensation bonus. And do you know who processed the compensation bonus? It was the Financial Administration, and it was the officials who would actually normally work on the EET. The EET is off, so they're processing the compensation bonus. And you've acknowledged that it's been processed well, and I think that they've helped a whole series of self-employed and eseros, and now the brokers. So please, let us be truly fair in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u13	Thank you. Now there are factual points, first Mr Ferjenčík, then Mr Stanjura, then Mr Munzar is in the debate from the point of view. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would really like to respond to the Minister's statement that the problem was that these people were paying as one table together and there were more payers. No, it's no problem at all, it's perfectly normal! You just come to the pub, you sit at the table, and you say to the waiter, "All together!" He brings the bill and people put the cash on the table and pay the bill. That's perfectly normal! And here to say it's illegal. It's totally crazy, it's really not normal! I don't understand how you can make such a thing a problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u15	Mr Stanjura is now registered with a factual remark, then I will give you the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u16	Mr Ferjenčík described this very well. If the secretary thinks otherwise, let him describe the situation. I don't think it can happen. Either it's that these people, they each give 200 and pay a thousand, and it's not illegal, or I don't know, the model example. I'm the one who signed up for something else. Yes, I commended the Financial Administration for a compensatory bonus, there's no reason not to praise it, because it was good. At the same time, I commended our Members that, with technical assistance from the Ministry of Finance, we allowed those requests to be sent by e-mail, because they wrote it in such a way that it would be legislatively impeccable, almost 60 percent used it, which means that we contributed to this, I think, as both chambers, to the smooth course. Because he was trouble-free. But that's exactly the problem: It's up to us what the Financial Administration gets. When she got the award to pay for the bonus, she handled it perfectly. But if he gets the assignment that every businessman is a dirty suspect and that he needs to get on their knees, he'll do it perfectly! But it's no use. And these particular cases arise. So it's actually about giving the legal steps that the Financial Administration is supposed to take under that law. And Madam Secretary, I know it's a popular political one. [[unintelligible]] No one is calling you to influence the Financial Administration politically. No one asked you to go beyond your jurisdiction. So the only person who thought of it in that room is you, and you said, "I won't do it." I didn't think of it, but I'm against it. We don't want anything like that. I just asked, and I will continue to ask what personal and other measures have been taken against those who caused that the independent courts have finally stated that the Financial Administration, i.e. the state, acted illegally. Let's turn around! What would happen if an independent court ruled that the taxpayer acted illegally? Poor guy. And what if it's from the other side, then what happened? According to my information, if I'm not mistaken, nothing! [[Attention on time.]] Janeček is no longer a national boss, just a county boss.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u17	Thank you. I would now give the floor to the Minister if Mr Klaus did not object when he came forward with a factual remark. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u18	Mr. Ferjenčík. Of course, if he's paying, I'll repeat it again, for one table, he'll say, "I'm buying! You said he'd get one receipt, it's okay. It doesn't matter that you've invited four whole benches here. The only problem would be - but I don't know the specific case - the only problem would be if he was paying at the table I don't know, you, President Stanjura, Mr Munzar, and you got one receipt. That would be a problem. But I find it absurd.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u19	Thank you, and now for the factual comments. Mr Klaus, then Mr Munzar, then Mr Ferjenčík, then Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Let's look at the problem in a matter of fact. The state with ever greater aggression bullies people who feed themselves or give jobs to someone else, and feeds you all from their taxes, among other things, as you sit here. That's a simple fact. Whether they paid for the whole table or half a table, there are little things. And the situation in time is deteriorating rapidly, the atmosphere in society, and it ends in a twist. I just want to say something different than the others. So feel the conscience, because you often contribute to this, even here famous demo. You accept one law after another, which introduces new regulations: guides in Prague in uniform, with a legit, this, that, one thing after another, day after day. So you're preparing this situation, then you're justifiably cursing the Minister, like the state administration does, but with these legislative steps - to ban furs, then subsidize it, one thing after another - you're scraping the company and destroying it. So just in this holy outrage where you're right today, and I'm on your side, everybody touch your conscience, and you're already completely, completely, over there from the other side. [[♪ She's waving her hand to the left ♪]] But that's just the situation we're following.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u21	Thank you. I would ask that we not go further than the topic of interpellation. Mr Munzar with a factual remark, then Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u22	I want to follow up on the Minister who said that the summary receipt, if, for example, I go with my colleague Stanjura and my colleague Ferjenčík for a beer tonight, each of us will have three beers, bring us the receipt together, I will put in a pile for three beers, colleague Stanjura for three beers, colleague Ferjenčík for three beers, so the Minister actually described that this is the problem that the collective receipt came. Oh, my God. Why? I didn't hear the answer from you, Madam Secretary, why is that a problem! Because it doesn't cover up sales. This does not circumvent tax obligations. If your answer is just because you wrote it like that in the law, you wrote it wrong, pardon me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u23	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, with a factual remark. He's downloading. Mr Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u24	I have to say, I haven't heard anything like that in a long Kocourkov. If we fold on it, it's against the law. So in the world of the Minister, this is how it works: there are two Members who celebrate their birthdays together. It's nothing unusual. Here, the President of the House has introduced a tradition - I don't like it, I feel like it's a special school, but why not - that he's declaring who's birthday. Even in bulk when it comes to it. And many of them celebrate in mass. That's how it works in the secretary's world: me and Marek Benda have a birthday, we invite our colleagues, they pay only one, and when they pay, I'll give Marek the money. And that's legal. But if we put them together in front of the waiter or in front of the inspector who's doing a search operation to fight tax evasion, he's sitting at the next table, staring at us, listening to what the MPs are saying, and then he notices that we each gave 500, so it's illegal. The landlord gets two and a half thousand tickets. In the world of Madam Secretary. Well, that's Absurdistán, Kocourkov, to use only writing terms. That's not normal at all. It's demoting the debate. That's the blind courage. Whatever they do, it's right! Apparently, the secretary never celebrated with anyone that they were two birthday boys. That can happen when someone's birthday is February 29th, and I don't know when it's Madam Secretary's birthday, so it's every four years. That's not exactly easy. But that's not how the real world works. Don't argue with that, that's bullshit! There's no defense! Or, Madam Secretary, date today or send those officials to watch how many cases it is. [[Nesroz.]] It happens today and every day and everywhere. And the Financial Administration will say it's illegal. That's abnormal!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u25	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary. That was Mr Stanjura's factual point, Mr Munzar's colleague. A colleague of Ferjenčík and Vice Prime Minister are also reporting. [[Member Munzar signals.]] Okay, so my colleague Ferjenčík is logged in. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u26	Thank you for the floor. I'm just gonna close the debate, then. I would like to appeal too much to the Minister to appeal to the Financial Administration for a change by her authority, whether they are really fined only those offences where there is damage to the state register, or, of course, various things where there are rules, whether or not an entrepreneur can do so, but, for God's sake, do not punish situations where there is no damage to the state. Here, entrepreneurs receive two and a half thousand fines, when no damage was done to the state. This is where the businessman got 5,000 tickets, and there was no damage. And the only reason is, that's our interpretation of the law. First of all, I think the interpretation is extremely disproportionately strict. Maybe this is where the general's apologies are due. Just why should unissued receipts be fined, which are duly registered in the EET? Why should there be a fine for the receipts that two people put up on? That doesn't make any sense. Please appeal to the actual penalty when tax evasion occurs and not just because the controller can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u27	Thank you. That was my colleague Ferjenčík. Now, Mr Leo Luzar in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u28	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to be involved in the debate, but I am not going to give it to me and I do not wish that the outcome of this debate would be something that my fellow Members discreetly suggest. Laws are for citizens. A citizen can do anything the law doesn't forbid him. That's probably true. But a state official should only do what the law allows him to do. The clerk should not use common sense. The clerk isn't here for this. A clerk is meant to follow the diction of the law and follow the law exactly. I don't want the clerk to come and start judging, well, I'm from the village, I have the common sense, it seems appropriate to me, it's okay. And he came to another one next door and said, this is disproportionate, the common sense is no longer taking it. I don't like it. I want the clerk to have to follow the law. And now I ask - who makes the laws? The Ministry, by the way, we here who approve them. So let's adjust the law. Let us not launder the Minister here, but let us ask her to amend the Act on Financial Control to clearly define which terms yes and which do not, so that exactly the officials can abide by this. That would be the right procedure. In order to define whether this check concerns the occupation of the family table, weddings, others and others, but if we make the law that common sense is to be applied in the official procedure, I fundamentally disagree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u29	Thank you. Another factual point by Mr Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u30	Thank you for the floor. I'm just really into my colleague Luzar. We suggested that if the sales were properly registered electronically, they would not receive the inn ticket for not issuing the receipt. bohužel, KSČM Members rejected it. So please don't appeal here to a change in the law you buried.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. My colleague Luzar also claims a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have your word. I'm taking your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u32	Thank you. Although I understand my colleague Ferjenčík's argument, and it is an unfair argument, because here we are dealing with a specific case, which the colleagues here show, at one table and so on, this is a conceptual solution, and we can get to the first-place society, who first caused it and who previously refused, and blame ourselves for all these cases. But there's a specific interpelation, a specific example, and a specific solution is the regulation of the law so that the Financial Administration can proceed precisely under that law. And if this is the target, yes, I will agree, and we can get back to it, and we can have the debate. But if it is only an appeal that the Financial Administration is evil and is doing something and we want it to apply common sense, I strongly disagree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u33	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact and I have no application for the debate, and I am ending the debate. During the debate, Mr Munzar proposed the refusal of the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the Government's reply, and we will vote on this when we reach the necessary compromise. I'm gonna go on and ask my colleagues and colleagues to go back to the O.R. and sign up with their I.D. cards. It's gonna be the number one-two vote, but I still need a few people to sign up. I understand that in half the format this is getting worse than when we're all here, I realize that, so if you'll have the rest of your colleagues and colleagues, patience before I run the vote number one-two. Just a little while longer. Once again, I'm gonna go on and ask my colleagues to register with my I.D. cards. [[The President is waiting.]] If we don't reach the necessary kvora, I'm going to have to interrupt this interview and agree with the deputies on how we're going to proceed. If we don't have enough people within 10.10 hours, I'll ask the deputies to come to me for a brief meeting to discuss how to proceed. I just said it's not 10.10. [[There's a meeting going on with the President.]] [[10.10 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, given that we have not achieved the necessary concession, the situation is strange because we have allowed individual clubs to work in half the format, but this does not change the Rules of Procedure Act that there must be at least 67 of us to vote. I repeat that the debate was concluded in the interview to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, who was submitted by Vojtěch Munzar, and I am interrupting this interview before the vote and we will deal with other interventions according to the order and presence of the various ministers. Since Jan Hamáček and Karel Havlíček and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš are duly excused, we will interrupt these three interventions, respectively. we will not deal with them because they are not present, they are duly excused, and we will continue by interpelling Jakub Janda to the Minister of Culture. Before that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u34	Mr Vice-President, I don't want to complicate this, I was in favour of continuing, but there are two of my interventions on Minister Havlíček, who is duly excused, but that is no reason to skip it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u35	I'll let them open, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u36	Okay, but I want them to be discussed. So I must propose an interruption to the Minister's presence, and we cannot vote. I think we're trapped.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u37	I will follow the Rules of Procedure. I'm just replicating the deal I made here with the deputies. It may be that we will not succeed under the Rules of Procedure either. We understand each other. At the moment, an interpelation is interrupted for Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová from Vojtěch Munzar, before the vote. We will now continue according to the Rules of Procedure by interpelling František Kopřiva to Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Jan Hamáček, with his colleague Kopřiva present. And I'm asking if he's joining the debate. And I probably expect him to want the Minister's presence, but I leave it up to him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u38	Good morning, colleagues. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll follow up on you. I would therefore like to suspend this interpelation until Minister Hamáček is present.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u39	In that case, I also interrupt this interpelation and we will continue it in the presence of the Minister of the Interior and the first Vice-President of the Government, Jan Hamáček. So now we get to what the chairman of the ODS club has announced... Sorry. Now I have an interview for Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Industry Karel Havlíček, when Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík intersected former Minister of Industry and Trade Marta Nováková on mining of mineral resources. And I see Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to use this space where the subject of lithium is essential to our people, because it is CZK 2 000 billion, so when we get to this important topic, I would like to use this space to ask a few questions to the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and I ask them for a written answer. First of all, I wonder when the 2,000 billion will arrive in the state budget for our lithium people. Or I ask for an answer if you have already, members of the ANO movement, let the ČSSD lithium be stolen in the same way as the OKD, which you had on election posters in 2017. I ask for a written statement whether we can either expect the 2,000 billion, or if the CSSD has already stolen it in spite of your efforts, as you threatened before the election campaign. And the third question is, please ask for information about what appears in the press, that today some kind of mining permit is approaching, so I am particularly interested in whether the company that is going to benefit is private or state-owned, and what conditions will be in terms of the state, whether we can really expect the 2,000 billion of it for our people, or whether it will go abroad again in the context of some vague contracts and memoranda, as discussed before the elections. So I ask you in writing to answer these questions, and I ask you to interrupt this interpelation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u41	I'll make it simple, Mr. Ambassador. These questions will certainly be on the screen, but we're not in oral interviews, so if the Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry and Trade Karel Havlíček read the tape, he'll be ready for the answers, but otherwise we're at the institute of written interviews, so the answers are not automatically here within 30 days as in oral. So, yes, I'm interrupting this interpellation, too. And we will come to an interview with Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who is also from Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík and is also to lithium. So even here, I ask Mr. Ferjenčík if he's suggesting an interruption. Yes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have the same questions for the Prime Minister, so I'm going to send it in the form of a written interview. And at the same time, I'm asking for a break, because the real subject of lithium and 2,000 billion for our people is crucial to the pirát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u43	Thank you. I also interrupt the interpellation of Mikuláš Ferjenčík to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. And it comes in the order of written interpelations on the interpelation of Jakub Janda on the state of the jánský Koupele spa and their future on the Minister of Culture - the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek. [[Mr Stanjura is reporting for his interpelation, but the President answers that he is only in the order after]] They're both present, I'm opening up a debate. Mr Jakub Janda has applied for the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, let me introduce you to the problem of the Janské Koupe spa, for which I have intersected the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek. You may know some of the Janské Koupele spa complex, just a few basic facts for the others. It is a historical complex of former spas located near the town of Opava in the Moravian-Silesian Region. Its origins date back to the early 19th century, and the first written mention of the healing springs there dates back to 1640. At present, however, this once famous and lavish complex, including several building buildings, has been decaying for many years and everything is very likely to indicate its definitive end. There are several reasons. The state of this once magnificent spa centre has undoubtedly not benefited from ownership changes in past years, especially with regard to the previous regime, but also property rights after the Velvet Revolution. The area has been decaying freely for decades, and there is no indication that it would be any different. The area recently passed under the owner of the new one, so maybe he will succeed in what his predecessors tried in vain. But not only his former owners, but also, paradoxically, an institute that should protect similar monuments, contributed to the triestal state of the Janske Baths. Most of the complex is listed in a list of protected monuments, which paradoxically makes it impossible to revitalize at least the viable part of the spa. Previous owners who were interested in putting the spa into operation asked in vain to remove it from this list and save at least the part that is useful for construction purposes and can still be saved in quotation marks. Nor did the initiative of the mayor here help, who is aware that the memory cannot be saved in its entirety, but the economy of the municipality would benefit from at least a partial reconstruction of the objects that can be saved. The problem of Janske Lazne is simply dragging on, and beyond the initiatives of entrepreneurs, the mayor has not helped mediating the press. [[Baths]] This January I therefore intersected the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek on this issue. I briefly described the problem, the current state of affairs, and asked him two questions: How does he view the fact that because of the anxious clinging to a spa record in the list of monuments they continue to decay and go towards the necessary demolition. And why the Ministry of Culture rejects the plans to renovate the complex presented by its owners at the time. The Minister subsequently, I must say that he answered correctly, for which I thank him with this. Both can be read in detail under House print number 772. Unfortunately, I cannot accept some of the Minister's arguments. I see no way in them to solve the whole problem or save the rescueable part of the Jane koupel, which is why I am lecturing this problem to the Chamber of Deputies. The minister at the first question, which concerned the possible removal of the complex from the list of monuments, argues the historical value of the former spa and its importance for the area where it is located. I agree with him on this, that is, as far as their value is concerned, and I also understand that there are some official procedures for these cases. The Minister has therefore dealt with the intervention in a relatively correct and correct manner in a formal manner. However, I cannot agree that the site will help if the rest of it is uncompromisingly included on the list of monuments. After all, the development of recent years and the current state of the spa, when some objects literally fall after a stronger rain, is the best evidence. However, under the State Monument Care Act, there must be an extremely serious reason for deletion from the list of protected monuments. The Ministry must then request the opinions of the competent authorities and may also bind the deletion to meet the conditions, such as proof of photographic, building or historical documentation. It is the Ministry in the finals that will consider whether the spa has lost or lost the original character of the monument. It is therefore primarily at the ministry of the Minister. And here lies the core of our debate. Whether the spa has lost or lost the original character of the monument, we can make an objective or subjective decision, but it does not change the fact that the current attitude is essentially based on letting the memory fall rather than allowing at least partial reconstruction. But then the question is, how long will it last and whether it will last? The last one, even with the strength and interest of investing, didn't last. He tried for years in vain until he finally gave up. Whether another such investor is found is a question, more precisely by divination from a crystal ball. But from practice we know that probably not, and instead of at least a partially repaired complex where tourism could develop, from which not only the village would benefit, but all of us, we are left with only ruins again. We can be pleased that they are ruins of conservation. The answer to the second question, i.e. why the Ministry rejects the plans for the renovation of the complex presented by its owners at the time, and which related to the design of the owners of the spa for their complete renovation, is unfortunately completely incorrect. The Minister merely stated that there had been a change in ownership structure and pointed out that, in the current situation, it was the owners' duty to take care of the preservation of the building. No search for business plans for new owners, or perhaps even an attempt to meet them, not in their interest, but to save at least the rest of the complex. We know from the statements made by the new owner that he has the experience of an investor, that he is willing to take a considerable loan to renovate the complex and that he too cannot imagine saving all the objects. So we're back to square one. Without their removal from the list of monuments, we will not move from the site. I don't want to defend the interests of those owners here. I'm concerned about the fate of a spa complex that has been ravaged for years and where the state, instead of helping, is blocking at least part of the area. It bothers me all the more that the Janské Koupele are located in my native Moravian-Silesian region. I hope that the Ministry of Culture will stop clinging to its unchangeable position and take steps to remedy things. That is why I ask the Minister here whether he has actually dealt with this problem specifically in the Ministry, or it is just one problem of many and applied the general principle: we prefer to let it fall because the owner did not comply with the conservation forms to 100%. Whether there is a plan to save the spa or just wait for it to fall down, and therefore what were the reasons why the owners didn't meet. Whether the Ministry of Culture has any interest in preserving the memory in at least a partial form. If the Ministry is interested in preserving the memory at least in a certain part, how it will proceed. Whether the Ministry has initiated any steps with the new owner or will wait again for the owner to request deletion from the list of monuments and will not be granted again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u45	I thank Mr Jakub Jand. The Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek, who is ready to answer, entered the discussion. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u46	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm reminiscing my whole response. Thank you. Of course, I know jánský Koupel well. Just so you don't think it's just an item to me. I know the complex very well. You yourself mentioned that the history of using these healing springs is at least 400 years old, probably even more, that is, only what is preserved, so that is 400 years old. And there's actually 200 years of spa there, so it has a pretty decent history. It is a significant example of spa architecture and spa in the Moravian-Silesian Region and in the time of the first Republic and before it it it was actually quite a blooming place. So it's not just one of many items for me. But not only do I know the history of the spa and the object itself, so unfortunately I also know its current state, which is quite unhappy, almost scary. And I, too, because I live in that county, was looking forward to those previous owners, that somebody would even do the renovation, and, as we know, sometimes it seemed like the owner would actually do it. There would also be a famous tennis player Tomáš Berdych at one time when I thought it might take some pace now, and it always turned out wrong. So I can say that I also know with you the history of the repeated expectations that the situation will change. [[10.30 hours]] Let me just remind you that the object was declared a cultural monument in 2005. This was still done when Baneba owned it. She agreed with the statement at the time in the administrative proceedings, and she didn't appeal, so it seemed like there would be a deal. It always seemed like it was dawning for a better time, and it didn't always work out. Even that company, Baneba, didn't even file a decomp request against the decision, so it didn't look like it was blocked. And of course, at the time the Ministry of Culture's position was such that even the poor technical state of the spa buildings caused by long neglected maintenance is not a reason to cancel the declaration with a cultural monument. So that's what's actually creating the situation, the 2005 statement. And I don't think there's any point in me telling you why that statement happened. It's not just about the long history, but the whole... I just know that the Ministry, or those responsible experts, consider the urban complex and the concept valuable. I know that the spa house and the treatment house are among the buildings - these are the two main objects from the whole complex, which I considered to be both the most valuable and architectural - that's the combination of wood with the masonry, that's the characteristic of that time. There are actually Janské Koupele, which is next to, say, Karlovy Studánky, these are examples of this... maybe even in these parts the most valuable examples of the spa architecture of the past. So I think of the historical value of protecting it, I don't think there's a dispute about it. And even, as I'm saying, there wasn't a dispute on the part of those who owned it. The problem, of course, is that nothing happened after all. What can the Ministry of Culture do? I can't imagine convincing the experts of the Ministry of Culture that they should change their minds about protection simply because there is evidence of it and the reasons why it's protected are obvious to me. I've noticed that the new owner is aware of the conservation and that he intends to restore it. Then, as far as I know, as I've verified, the National Heritage Institute in Ostrava is ready to look for a solution with the owner. So it's not like we have an opinion, and it's over. But we're ready, we're ready to talk about how to do this so that these principles of protection can be met, and at the same time it's possible to start repairing the premises, and I understand it, it's about keeping the core, the spa house, and the healing house in a certain way, in order to respect the valuable elements that are there. So I don't think I know to what extent I can trust the owner's assurance that he respects the protection, because you can argue that we've had something like this in the past. What I can suggest here is that I can meet the owner myself, that I can make sure that he means his words, and in some way, the process... to participate in it in some way personally, which I am happy to promise you, because more or less the state of those Jane koupel also seems terrible to me. And the fact that it's been going on for so long is hard for me to bear. I'd just like to tell you that unfortunately there are more such objects in the Republic, not just those Janské Koupele. But you're right, I know these guys very well personally, so they're looking at it very badly. There were these horrible things going on, haken laces being painted there, and other things, it's kind of a shame. So I understand that the state here isn't doing what it should be doing, that it should be using more tools, but I don't think that we have the very best legislation in our country today, exactly how to get owners to do something when they buy something, and also knowing that it's protected to actually do something about it afterwards. That's a general problem, it's not just the Yankee koupel. But I can promise you that I will not be satisfied with the assurance of the owner that I will meet with him and that I will try to make sure that there is a real compromise in protecting him and in making it possible for the renovation, because, if I simplify it, I can hardly look at it anymore either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u47	Thank you. Mr Jakub Janda is still reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u48	I thank the Minister for his correct answer. And I believe he will keep his promises. I'll keep an eye on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u49	Thank you. Who's next for the debate? I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. So, if you do not insist on a vote, I can end this interview. And I advise all colleagues that although we can vote now because there are enough of us here, the ODS club chairman has asked for a break at the club meeting within 11 hours, which I am declaring. So we'll meet at 11 o'clock, and we'll continue with the fixed points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we should now look at the fixed points: paragraph 473, the timetable for the state closing account, and paragraph 488, which is the support of private entities in live culture. And then we'll continue with the other points according to the approved program. I also remind you that this afternoon we will be focusing on point 490, which is oral questioning. Before we proceed to the fixed points, I ask if anyone is interested in speaking to the agenda for the amendment. Mr Janda has applied with a proposal to amend the approved agenda of the 58th meeting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u51	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the inclusion of House Press 662 on today's agenda as the first item after the already firmly placed points. This is a reduction in the so-called VAT refund limit for foreign tourists, which is a very interesting tool to motivate tourists to buy and thus help entrepreneurs and especially small businessmen. This is particularly recent in this time of Coronavirus because the tourism segment was the most affected. We know how long the legislative process takes, and we must be prepared for today and for the future. Because before this amendment is discussed, we'll be ready for the future. And it could help in the tourism industry. So I'm begging you once more for support and inclusion. I will repeat for the President: as the first point after the already firmly placed points on today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u52	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for a change in the approved agenda? He's not reporting. We will therefore vote on Mr Janda's proposal. I have called in Members and Members who are not in the Chamber to take part in the vote... We are now in sufficient numbers. We will therefore vote on putting the press 662 as the first point after the already firmly placed points, which means that this will be the third point of today's programme. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 102, 74 Members signed in for 29, against no one. The motion was not accepted. President Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u53	Thank you for the floor. I respect the outcome. But when the government MPs say they want to help someone again, we will remind you of this moment in this vote. Is there anyone among you who thinks that tourism is not affected the most or one of the most industry? Nobody. This proposal has the support of all the organisations active in the field of tourism. Of course, it is not a panacea, it is one of the small things that could help them overcome the difficult times that they have and will still have. It's a business subject where the crisis didn't end. If we come out of parliament, we see a significant loss of tourists. This proposal does not bring any dramatic impact on the state budget, yet you are stubbornly opposed to helping those who really need it. And there's only one reason I can think of - that a colleague from the opposition suggested it. You really should be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-001-489.u54	Thank you. That was a performance with priority rights. And now, in accordance with the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, we will address paragraph 473. It's about
