ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-004-004.u1	4. Government bill amending Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on Consumer Protection, as amended, and other related laws /house print 582/ - second reading I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Industry and Trade Karel Havlíček for staying at the rapporteur's table. I will also ask Mr Patrik Nacher to take his place as rapporteur for the Economic Committee. Under the authority of the Government, the Vice-President of the Government will give us this point. I will ask, Mr Vice-President, for peace in the room so that your opening words can be in a dignified environment. If you have any other discussions, please, in principle, in the foyer. This also applies to the presidents of the parliamentary clubs. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-004-004.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a law amending Law No 1 on the European Union. 634, on consumer protection. The essence is that a European Parliament regulation on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection legislation is adopted. The fact is that the cross-border cooperation that exists should be concentrated so that institutions of the type that can carry out cross-border surveillance, such as the Czech Trade Inspection Authority, the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority, the Czech Telecommunications Office, municipal, regional livestock workers and others, so that these rules are applicable to all these institutions in the context of cross-border trade, with the consumer protection law thus determining 23 administrative bodies, which will therefore implement the relevant application of the regulation. This adaptation also requires the implementation of a number of corresponding changes in some other laws, and for this very reason, in addition to the amendment to the Consumer Protection Act, changes were made in order and in other 15 legislation. As part of the first reading, the bill was ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee. This meeting took place on 11. 12. In the course of the discussion, one amendment was applied and its content was enshrined in the obligation of the administrative authority to inform the person concerned that he had requested the Bank to provide information relating to that person, precisely within 24 months of the date on which the request was lodged. The amendment was adopted by the Economic Committee and the Ministry of Industry and Trade adopted a favourable opinion on it. So, in the context of the need to adapt the Czech rule of law to this new regulation, and given the fact that this is a purely adaptation amendment, I would like to ask you, honourable Members, to support this proposal for today's negotiations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-004-004.u3	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade Karel Havlíček. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 582/1 and 582/2. And now I will ask the rapporteur of Mr Patrik Nacher's economic committee to inform us about the committee's deliberations and to justify any amendments. The rapporteur, it's up to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-004-004.u4	Thank you for the floor. Have a nice afternoon in the new year. As has already been said, the proposal was discussed by the Economic Committee on 11 December 2019. He accepted one amendment by Roman Kubíček, which responds to increased powers, including the breakthrough in banking secrecy. This amendment concerns certain safeguards that should prevent abuse, given the Minister's description of how many different administrative bodies this new power applies. One of these possible, and I think, effective solutions is the introduction of a certain obligation of the administrative authority to inform the entity or citizen concerned that it has been investigated by data that are protected by banking secrecy. In this spirit, a single amendment has been adopted, which has been discussed, and I would therefore like to read the resolution at this point: Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the interpretation of Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade René Neděla and the report by Mr Nacher and after a general and detailed debate I. recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve the House's press 582 in the text of the approved amendment - which I justified a moment ago - which complements paragraph 6 of Section 24g in Part 1 of the amendment paragraph 6 of Section 24g. 6, which reads: "6. The competent authority shall, within 24 months of the date of submission of the application referred to in paragraph 1,: The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure referred to in this Article. 2." - That's what I was explaining a while ago; II. empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the appellant and the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make legislative technical amendments in the draft law which do not affect the substance of the proposed law; III. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the results of the discussion of this draft law in the Economic Committee; IV. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Then, in a detailed debate, I will read one more amendment concerning the effectiveness of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-004-004.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his intelligence report. We can continue with a general debate in which I have two applications, with factual remarks - a colleague of Mr Baxa and Mrs Richterová. I can't see. Mrs Richterová has applied. It's a mistake. I don't see my colleague, Baxa do I. In that case, I don't have a written application, and I'm asking who's applying from the scene. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. We can therefore continue with the debate in detail, and there I record the rapporteur's application, to whom I will now give the floor. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-004-004.u6	Thank you. Since the whole thing has shifted, which, by the way, was the reason why we suggested that we discuss this under Section 90 and approve it in the first reading, note that it has been written since January 17, 2020, which is not logical if we do not go back in time. I would like to read the amendment to Article 16, which is new to the fact that this law takes effect on 1 July 2020, and therefore only the effectiveness is being shifted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-004-004.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. Who else in the detailed debate? I don't see anybody, and I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word - Prime Minister? This is not the case, so I can end the second reading of this proposal. I thank the Vice-President of the Government, thank the rapporteur, and finish the point on consumer protection. [[15.40 hours]] We will continue with the next proposal, which is:
