ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-002-177.u1	177. Members of Petr Sadovský, Andrea Babišová, Pavel Žáček, Radek Rozvoral, Zdeněk Ondráček, Tomáš Vymazal, Dominik Feri, Jan Chvojka, Karel Rais, Michal Ratiborský and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure (Criminal Code), as amended, and some other laws /house print 657/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 I would like to point out once again that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill in the first reading. We received the Government's position as House Press 657/1. I ask Mr Sadovský to present the proposal to us as a plaintiff. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-002-177.u2	Thank you. Hello, Mr President, colleagues. The proposed law responds to the situation that has happened and that we all know about, with Mrs Janáková, because according to current legislation the President of the Senate must always decide, in the case of the pregnancy or motherhood of a child under one year old who has been sentenced to unconditional imprisonment, to postpone the execution of such a sentence, respectively. It interrupts within one year of the baby. In essence, this adjustment is functional, but it has its limits, and on this case we saw that it was not entirely appropriate. The aim of the proposal is to give the President of the Chamber the power to decide whether the pregnant woman or the mother of the child within one year of his age, which has been sentenced - and I note - for a particularly serious crime, will therefore be allowed to defer or suspend the sentence. If he does not decide to do so, the woman will remain in the execution of an unconditional sentence of imprisonment or be obliged to take up his or her duties. For women convicted of crimes or crimes which are not particularly serious, the current regulation will be maintained, as their being free will not pose such a high risk to society in view of the nature of serious crime, which would outweigh the interests of the child, in whose best interest it naturally is for him to be with his mother. The aim of the proposal is, of course, to prevent situations where dangerous perpetrators of serious crime do not go into prison and are free as a result of pregnancy or motherhood and thus pose a significant risk to our society. As has been said here, pursuant to Section 90, I propose that this be approved at first reading, and therefore I would like to ask you to be helpful. I'd be happy if you'd support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-002-177.u3	Thank you. Now I would ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Pavel Blažek, but I do not see him in the hall. Alternatively, we would have to vote to change the rapporteur for first reading, perhaps preferably a member of the constitutionally-legal committee. Mr Ondráček would take up the role of rapporteur. [[Mr. Ondráček off the microphone: Wait a minute.]] We'll give it a few seconds, of course, that's no problem. First, before there is a change in the rapporteur for first reading, we must vote for the change. [[Messenger. Ferjenčík warns that he's a messenger. Ondráček is one of the plaintiffs.]] You're one of the plaintiffs, I'm sorry. So a member of the Constitutional and Legal Committee who is not a petitioner. [[This is Ambassador Ožan.]] We will vote on the rapporteur's amendment that Mrs Ožanová will be the new rapporteur. I am opening the vote and asking who is the rapporteur to change. Who's against it? Voting number 125, 142 Members registered, for 132, against no one. The motion was accepted. I shall therefore ask the rapporteur for a brief introductory word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-002-177.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the draft legislators have already said all the necessary things. I believe that the social need for this regulation of the Criminal Code has also emerged from many articles in the press. I don't think it's right for only pregnancy to prevent the execution of punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-002-177.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Ondráček is the first Member to join. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-002-177.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I thank my colleague Ferjenčík, who remembered that I am one of the translators. If you recall, I asked for this press to be included last week, and I would like to thank you in this way for the agreement across the political spectrum and for this House press being included in the discussion, including the following House press No. 551, paragraph 161, which is similar, but is from the workshop of a colleague. I would like to ask you for the proposed procedure, i.e. the vote pursuant to § 90 para. Five, which I think is a general match. Thank you and I beg your support. If we could vote at first reading, I would be very happy. I am also saying this because the person in question lives near my place of residence and, of course, I am very well informed about this matter by both the mayor of the village where he lives and some other politicians who are interested in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-002-177.u7	Thank you. I'm going to verify one more fact, if you don't mind. I have just received information that Mrs Ožanová, too, is signed under the bill and cannot take the role of rapporteur. It should be someone from the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Mr Farský was offered. So we'll be, uh, unusual, but I think we can do that - Mr. Farský's signed, too? Sorry. [[A commotion in the hall.]] Okay. We're gonna do this so it's constitutionally legal, it's for further deliberation completely... here in the background that I have, it's not a signature sheet, so I only know the names of those who are mentioned at the beginning of the press, so we're gonna believe that... there's a "and another" and I don't know the other ones. Mrs Červíčková, we conclude that you are not listed as the appellant. We will therefore vote on the amendment of the rapporteur for first reading, and it will be Mrs Červíčková. I am opening the vote and asking who is the rapporteur for this change. Who's against it? Voting number 126, registered 152, for 128, versus 1. The motion was accepted. We will continue the general debate. In the absence of an objection, we will now decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I've already summoned colleagues from the lobby. I will make a motion for a resolution: the Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on the Houses of the Press 657 so... [[Please note that the general debate is not yet over.]] I'm sorry, yes, we still have an application from the scene. Mr Feri has not spoken, so we will continue the debate. Then, Mr Farský. I've taken too many shortcuts. I'm sorry. You have your word. I hope it's the last...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-002-177.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we support the procedure under Section 90 and we are pleased that, in response to the medially very important case, even two plaintiffs have taken part in this. What I would like to ask, however, is whether there is any authority of the government to give a government opinion here, because we have been in such a bit of a difficult situation in the sense that the government has said yes to both of these newspapers, but we are discussing this as the first press, the press that the government has said yes to - but. There are no issues solved, and the government is even encouraging us to tackle these unresolved issues, such as the question of the child's residence status, within the legislative process. That means - I don't know if any of the ministers have a mandate, no one's applying, so I don't know how to handle it. In any case, they are dealing with the same material, but I think it would be appropriate for a representative of the Ministry of Justice to be present in the future or at least someone with a mandate, because this is how we approve something that the government has agreed to, but you have to correct it, and we will approve it with 90. But we support it, we support this proposal, and we're happy to solve it this quickly in the '90s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-002-177.u9	Thank you. Mr Farsky for debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-002-177.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, he is not only here in the Chamber of Deputies, but he has also been on the government since this morning because the case, which you have noticed by many, the pregnant murderer Janáková - the name has already been Feri several times, so it is pointless to mask it somehow - started in June when the media took place the case that a woman who was sentenced to 30 years for a really premeditated murder, so after a year in prison got pregnant, and because the law says quite clearly and without exceptions that if she becomes pregnant, then for the period of pregnancy plus until the year of the child must be released. And the judges acted according to the law, and they wondered for themselves that such a dangerous person - because the convictions of the convicted people said that he could repeat the act, that they simply could not act differently and had to set it free. This caused a natural reaction in the place where she lived and in her residence, whether it was gradually Jilemnice, Vrchlabí or eventually I think she was taken into custody in Lomnice nad Copelkou, where she moved. People knew her at the scene, they knew it was this condemned person, her face went through the media, and naturally they were worried about their fate. It opened up at the end of June, but the Attorney General said he wouldn't change the law on an ad hoc case. That is why we took it up at the time, a group of Members who submitted the press 551. They represented the leaders of social democracy clubs, Pirates, TOP, KSČM, SPD, Mayors, plus other Members signed. We passed that law to the government and the government on July 31st - and now I'm getting to the absurdities that have just happened to us here, and I don't really know how to deal with them and how to proceed. With this proposal, the House press 551, which deals with the same material, the pregnant murderer, so the government has agreed, without comment, without any further words. She just said yes, including the fact that the 551 press is designed in the '90s, which means that it can be approved at today's meeting. For the press, 657, which has been presented by a wider group of Members, which dealt with this material far more complicatedly, the government has no longer expressed its consent without comments. She directly states in that opinion that, in the interests of its future problem-free application, we should consider in the next legislative process the implementation of some of the following partial amendments to the draft law. This is the government's position on the 657, which we are now discussing, which is also proposed to approve in the 90s, but there are specific comments that should be adapted. This is an opinion on the 551 press of the government, which deals with the same material and where there are no comments. The fact that a bunch of people here have invested a sea of time, energy, money in making another proposal, even though the government's approval was already on the proposal, I will leave it aside. But we are now in a situation where we have a commentary from the government, and we are to approve it in the 90s, and by approving it - that is press 657 - so we will not get a vote on press 551, which has been approved by the government completely without comment. I understand that we are divided here into opposition and coalition, and therefore some policy is always going on here and somebody has to figure it out so that he can say that he helped citizens, but here it really gets on an absurd plane, completely absurd, because in July the government will issue its opinion without comment, in October a proposal is presented and in December the government will present an opinion with comments on the same material, the same press. We are doing two jobs, hard work, and today we are in a situation where the House should vote first on the proposal that is being mentioned by the government, and we will not vote on it at all. I find it both unnecessary and difficult. The government's position is understandable in a way, because if you look at the 551 print solution, it merely says that where judges have had to let go to this day, they will be able to let go in the future. It will be purely up to the judges to assess all the material around it, all the circumstances of the case, the technical security, the state of health - and to the specifics do not solve it. Just press 551 says to you: we, judges, believe that in those few dozens of cases a year, and maybe not even dozens of them, you'll just make the right decision. The MP's second proposal, 657, but I don't think it's necessary to hide that it was drawn up in close cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, dealing with six, seven, eight, nine pages in detail, when, what punishment, how to proceed, what background it will be, where to attend, where to go, where to call - actually because of a few cases a year, we strongly interfere with the law, and when you simply change a few laws by changing the changes they make to several pages, it's natural that the government's position will probably not be so much without comments and simple. Personally, it still seems to me that it is better to deal with it in the easiest way, it is really a few cases a year, and only to give those judges a chance to consider the situation and trust them to decide according to their best conscience and all the information they have, rather than actually dictate to them how to make decisions and limit them. Because I'm afraid that this government proposal can easily happen to us, and then it comes down to the fact that the complex modification, the causal modification of many sections, we find that there's something else that we've forgotten. After all, the government already says in its opinion that we have forgotten something and that we should still adjust. [[9.30 hours]] On the one hand, I would like to propose that - because it is the same material for the 551 and 657 printings - we join the debate. That's one suggestion. And the second proposal, which I would put subsequently, but it really depends on the consideration, so I think, given the simplicity and the fact that the government's position is consistent there without comment, we should first vote on where the government had no comments on the press 551. If it doesn't pass through the House, we'll have that print of 657, where there are government comments, but if we approve it in the '90s, then the Senate will have to deal with it. And that's kind of a weird structure where we're going to send a law to the Senate that we're going to say, we know we need to fix it, the Senate to fix it, give it back to us, we're going to approve it in your version. What if the Senate doesn't just fix what we want him to do, what if he puts something else in there? We can get into a complicated situation. So now that I've completely drawn it up, if we vote 657, we send it to the Senate, we don't know what's coming back, we don't know how we're going to vote. Then the only logical printing of 551 will be interrupted by the end of the legislative process 657. I just want to say that it's gonna take us months and years to get another pregnancy, including Mrs. Janáková. And I think it's relatively urgent and it's on fire, and that we should sort it out, especially when the government's consensus is on that as quickly as possible. So my proposal is for the merger, and in the vote, I vote first by 551, although I do not know if I am going beyond the possibility of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-002-177.u11	Thank you. I've noted the motion for a trial. I am merely of the opinion that if the order is a point, then the order of vote is then. Even if we merge the debate, we will vote first for the press 657, then 551. With the replacement card number 15, Mrs Valachová votes. The proposal to merge the debates was made in paragraphs 177 and 161. Mr Farský point of fact, then he is signed up with Mr Feri in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-002-177.u12	I'm sorry. I know there's a lot of this mess in the morning, but maybe I'll make it simple. Because if I file a motion to interrupt the press 657 until we discuss 551, it will actually be resolved, and if we don't approve it, we'll continue in 657, if we approve it, we'll go back to 551, and then we'll go back to 657 if we don't approve. So I'm downloading my proposal in a process, and I suggest we cut off the 657 print until we discuss the 551 print.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-002-177.u13	That's right. I think this may be the best course of action for the purposes of your proposal. I will call my colleagues from the lobby and vote on the interruption of paragraph 177 until the full discussion of the House's press 551. A motion to unsubscribe, which I've just granted. Let's just say the number of votes is settled. I repeat, we are voting to interrupt this item until the press hearing 551. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting 127, registered is 151, for 55, versus 15. The motion was not accepted. Mr Feri has withdrawn his point of order and there is a factual remark from Mr Kasal. Or is it just a mistake in handling the device? Mr. Kasal doesn't report, so... there was just something wrong with the vote. We have a motion to merge the debates. This is another proposal that needs to be voted on - who agrees to bring the debates on points 177 and 161 together. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 128, registered is 152, for 58, versus 2. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Let me read the apology. Mr Antonín Staněk apologizes for today's meeting until 10.30 for work reasons. Until now, there has been no objection to the hearing of § 90 para. 5. I shall therefore definitely conclude the debate and make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on the Houses of the Press 657 so that it can be agreed with at first reading." Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting 129, logged in 154, for 144, against no one. The motion was accepted. I therefore launch a detailed debate and ask who is interested in speaking in a detailed debate on this point. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word from the plaintiff. [[No.]] The rapporteur's side? [[It's not.]] It's not like that. No further proposals have been made. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members Petr Sadovský, Andrea Babišová, Pavel Žáček, Radek Rozvoral, Zdeněk Ondráček, Tomáš Vymazal, Dominik Feri, Jan Chvojka, Karel Rais, Michal Ratiborskýý and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure, as amended, and some other laws, according to the House's Press 657." [[Criminal Code]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting 130, registered 155, for 148, against no one. The motion was accepted. I state that consent has been given to the bill and that the hearing is over. Thank you all. So now I have to deal with the second proposal. Opening point number
