ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-003-002.u1	2. The draft law amending Act No. 211/2000 Coll., on the State Fund for Housing Development and on the Amendment of Act No. 171/1991 Coll., on the jurisdiction of the authorities of the Czech Republic in matters relating to transfers of state property to other persons and the Fund of National Property of the Czech Republic, as amended, as amended, and other related laws /German press 4125/ - rejected by the Senate Before we proceed, with priority rights, President Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-003-002.u2	Of course, I respect the vote, and I accept that this will become part of our legal order. I would just like to point out that it will completely miss the effect that the petitioner has observed, because even in such a case, the Czech Republic will not be harmed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-003-002.u3	Thank you. I'm going back to Parliament's press 412/2. The resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered to us as a House press of 412.6. I welcome Senator Lukáš Wagenknecht among us, and I ask that Mrs Klára Dostálová, Minister for Regional Development, speak for the plaintiff for the Senate resolution on the rejection of this proposal. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-003-002.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me just briefly summarize what is the main objective of the bill, and this is, in particular, the extension of the scope of the existing State Housing Development Fund to other activities relating to the promotion of regional development and which are within the competence of the Ministry for Local Development. There will therefore be a gradual transfer of selected activities so that we can combine - and I underline this, combine - subsidies and loans. If MMR has subsidy programmes, MMR cannot provide loans as the Ministry, but for some aids such as insulation, lifts, of course various public spaces and so on, it is very desirable that the combination of subsidies and loans be possible. [[18.10 hours]] As far as the Fund's budget is concerned, it will remain in the approval regime of the Chamber of Deputies. So the legislators will be - we will be able to judge or directly influence the above-mentioned housing expenditures. Therefore, there is no reason to worry about reducing housing aid in any way. On the other hand, the law that we are presenting is newly introducing support for cooperative housing, i.e. so that we can give young people preferential loans to cooperative shares, i.e. so that this cooperative housing can really gain strength. This means, as far as I can sum up, the fundamentals are the three four objectives of the law, i.e. make the activity more effective, i.e. e.g. specify the composition of the committee, etc., to link the subsidy and financial instruments, i.e. the possibility of granting loans for cooperative shares and the possibility of deduction of up to CZK 30,000 per child. Another great benefit, therefore, is the possibility of a combination. We can, of course, reflect in the future through this state fund as well as so-called. financial instruments, e.g. JESSICA's turn, it's the second turn to the public space and we're preparing a financial tool to warm up. In this context, I would very much like to say that the benefit of the draft amendment is also the implementation of provisions on the use of data from the information systems of the state administration, i.e. We are trying to simplify the support from the state fund. If the state registers already have it, there's no reason for applicants to fill it in over and over again, but, of course, the authorisation is necessary. And, of course, it is also necessary to anchor the application of the Financial Control Act in connection with the Fund's control activities. Madam Members, I believe that the bill will regain your support, as it was in the third reading, when 144 Members from 170 voted in favour of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-003-002.u5	I thank the Minister and please have Senator Wagenknecht take the floor. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-003-002.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Madam, honourable Members, Madam Secretary, I have been entrusted with the Senate's plenary in order to justify the Senate's negative position on this law. Very briefly to the procedure. The law was passed by the Committee on Territorial Development, the Environment and Public Administration, which supported the bill as proposed by the House, but was then rejected at the Senate plenary, in favour of 39 senators voted in favour of the motion to dismiss 41 senators, 11 against and the rest abstained. You have the supporting documents at your disposal. I will briefly sum up the issues that were discussed in plenary and which ultimately led to its rejection, i.e. I will comment very briefly on the individual points. The first big issue that was discussed there was another violation of the subsidiarity principle, i.e. Once again, the State should decide on subsidies under the agendas which should be addressed by the municipalities. We have a long-term problem with this issue, and the senators have long seen this as inappropriate. The second area, which was very discussed, was the area of the current functioning of the fund. We are putting new agendas here, making the housing development fund some new investment fund, but we already know that large reserves are in the promotion of housing, and for this reason they are very concerned that other agendas will also be addressed at the expense of this very issue. What was the thing that I mostly commented on, and I didn't get the answer to, was the thing that was about securing the new fund. According to the explanatory memorandum, this whole agenda should cost only CZK 800 000 to rebrand a new fund from the housing fund to the public investment fund. However, there is no communication in the law as to how much money the fund will redistribute, there is an argument that it will be decided by the House within the budget to make it fall. However, we still don't know how many billions it's gonna go there, if it's a fund for those new government demands and plans of 8 trillion crowns, or if it's gonna be a smaller amount, it's unsettling. And it should also be clear from the law - we support some new areas and in what amount. Another argument that fell in plenary concerned setting up the new fund, whether it was merely a transfer of agendas from the Ministry level, which was communicated to us that this should be the case, or whether it was the new agendas that were expanding. Again, it is not described in the law. We are in a situation where there are plans at government level, as I understand from the merger of ministries, on the other hand, we are transferring some agendas here. I would also comment very briefly on the issue of fund financing of loans. I call it a big challenge for the future, but this has also been communicated. It's not a system solution. We have state banks that could form a large fund, it was a big issue in the past. We are now introducing this in one area, but there is no reason for this to expand its scope. That's all for me, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-003-002.u7	Thank you, Senator. The Guarantee Committee in the House was a Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I therefore ask the rapporteur of the committee if he wants to speak. He doesn't want to get out. I'm opening the debate. President Ivan Bartoš is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-003-002.u8	Good evening again, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, Senator, Madam Secretary. I would just like to summarize briefly the position of the pirát on this proposal as well as on the proposal that is now coming from the Senate. We disagree with the proposal to transform the State Housing Development Fund into the State Investment Support Fund and join the Senate's motion to reject it. This has already been partially said. The fund was set up with a clear intention, the funds deposited in it were intended for a specific purpose, namely housing support. Even after years of running the fund, this topic has not lost any news, but we are dealing with the lack of housing here, and it is also a question that is being dealt with across Europe. So the problem with housing availability is rather increasing. And at such a time, under such conditions, we're converting the resources - and I heard the argument from the Minister - for investments, the funds that have so far been intended solely to address the problem of housing, virtually. housing construction. I don't get it from my point of view, and I don't think that's objectively reasonable. We are aware that the Ministry of Regional Development and Fund Management has repeatedly declared that it wants to continue the housing support programmes. It currently regulates the construction programme's challenge, there is a proposal to strengthen the financial volume for this particular programme. So it is not quite clear to me, therefore, that clinging to the possibility of using these funds for other purposes. We even suggested in the previous discussion that there be at least a guaranteed proportion of the funds that could not be used for purposes other than housing. But the House didn't support the proposal here. It is unclear to me why the MMR repeatedly declares the housing support when the House did not want to support the proposal for guaranteeing a certain part of this fund exclusively and only for housing. We therefore welcome the return of the Senate law to the Chamber of Deputies. I think it's also a good opportunity for some of you to reconsider your approach. In the justification for the main principles of this proposed regulation, the extension of the existing State Housing Development Fund's activities by other activities related to regional but local support and are within the competence of the MMR. This strengthens one-sided influence of the Ministry of Regional Development, whose support for the region is shrinking at the moment on the distribution of funds. We do not agree with the change in powers in the area of the transfer of funds between the various chapters of the Fund's budget during the year. The proposal also gives the powers to manage the fund during the year to move 5% of the total budget of the fund annually, but it does not address the fact that it can be done repeatedly. To date, this has always been approved by the relevant House Committee, which includes regional development, and at least from this point of view, this transfer has always been addressed at the level of the committee responsible. At this point, this is going down to five percent. It's not addressed if it happens repeatedly. So I would like to say once again that we support the Senate proposal to reject this amendment of the law for the Pirate Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-003-002.u9	Thank you. Mr Juránek will respond to a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-003-002.u10	Mr President, Madam Minister and colleagues, I would like to set the record straight on what is going on in this law. First of all, if you want to go into housing, you have to have a secure infrastructure. It's getting harder. And at present, in all the housing estates that exist, in all the major constructions, it is crucial not only to build concrete apartments, but to create adequate infrastructure for this. Just take it as you have to create a certain number of parking spaces, that you must then invent the right arrival. [[18.20 hours]] Try to think about this only from this point of view and try again to support this law for one simple reason, because the fact that it changes into an investment fund only leads to the construction of these flats in the first place. And what we're going to talk about is the five percent, I personally think that the 5% amount isn't high. I suppose in committee, we'll still deal with these things and then we can comment on them. That is why I would like to say that I will support this law for myself, and I will try to overrule the Senate's refusal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-003-002.u11	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? This is not the case, I am ending the debate. Interested in the final words - my secretary? [[Yes.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-003-002.u12	Thank you. I'm just really gonna repeat the most important things. I keep hearing that it is necessary to prepare for the future when European funds are not here. That's what this is all about! This means that we need to create a platform for the municipalities to actually implement those projects in the complex, and it is not possible for us to constantly force them to submit separately an application for an MMR subsidy and a request for a preferential loan to the State Fund. Why in God's name don't we do this to them on a project? And if, of course, there is a rejection of the law, then please note that we have therefore abolished the support for cooperative housing, because it must be enshrined in the Act on the State Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-003-002.u13	Thank you. Mr. Senator - he's not interested in the final word. Then we shall proceed to the vote. We shall vote in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Once again, the adoption of the following resolution requires an absolute majority, namely the approval of an absolute majority of all Members, the approval of 101 Members. The number of votes required is set. I will make a motion for a resolution: The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 211/2000 Coll., on the State Fund for Housing Development and on the Amendment of Act No. 171/1991 Coll., on the jurisdiction of the authorities of the Czech Republic in the matter of transfers of state property to other persons and on the Fund of National Property of the Czech Republic, as amended, and other related laws, according to House press 412... [[Objection from the diaper.]] That's how I got the background. And please let someone on the microphone say the objection so we can fix it. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-003-002.u14	We are discussing Act 211/2000 Coll., on the State Housing Development Fund - House printing 412.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-003-002.u15	Yes, and that's what I'm talking about - 412.5. And this is the motion for a resolution, as I have read it. In order to avoid confusion, I will once again read the motion for a resolution, as we have it in the materials. "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 211/2000 Coll., on the State Fund for Housing Development and on the Amendment of Act No. 171/1991 Coll., on the jurisdiction of the authorities of the Czech Republic on transfers of state property to other persons and on the Fund of National Property of the Czech Republic, as amended, and other related laws, according to the House's Press 412/5." I assume this resolution is correct. [[Yes.]] So I read it for the first time, but it's a good thing we got this straight, and we all know what we're voting on. May I begin the vote? [[Yes.]] I can. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 20, 162 Members registered, for 116, against 19. I state that the bill has been passed. Thank you, Minister, thank you, Mr Senator, and I am done discussing this point. The next item is:
