ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-068-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 68th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I will traditionally unsubscribe all of you. Please sign up with ID cards, or report who is applying for a replacement card. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 60 Members. The invitation was sent to us by e-mail on 13 November. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Miroslav Kalousek and Mr Leo Luzar. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I do not see any other proposal, so we will vote on the verifiers of the meeting. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number one, 76 Members signed in for 74, versus 1. I note that we have appointed Mr Miroslav Kalousek and Mr Leo Luzar to the 68th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We will now proceed to the 68th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition to the programme can be proposed and the approved programme cannot be extended. Before we proceed to the vote, President Jakub Michálek has priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-068-01-000-000.u2	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the agenda for this meeting. I know it's a little, let's say, a request that may not be granted because we've been briefed since the ANO movement that they won't support the anti-corruption agenda. However, I think it would be good to recall why this matter is important and why efforts to reduce corruption in the state deserve the attention of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm based on a document that's the only program you need. [[shows]] It's now or never. It is the programme of the ANO movement, which clearly promises that, in the area of justice, we will guarantee the state's representatives independence from politicians and will establish a specialized elite unit for the prosecution of corruption and serious economic crime. The commitment to adopt an amendment to the Public Prosecutors' Act also includes the Government's programming declaration. If we continue with the content of this programme, we will know that we will find the same position with regard to judges. We will introduce clear rules in the selection of judges and the state administration of the courts by amending the law on courts and judges. Both of these principles are implemented in the proposals that are in the agenda of the extraordinary meeting that we are now presenting. It's an amendment to the State's Attorney's Act, which the government hasn't submitted. Although Minister Benešová promised to submit this amendment by June 2019 and fulfilled her promise, she submitted it to the Government, but the proposal for an amendment to the State Prosecutor's Act was not included by Prime Minister Andrej Babiš on the government programme. Why? Because the government couldn't convince itself to fight corruption. So it has not voted on the proposal prepared by the Ministry of Justice, and to this day we do not have prepared here and in the Chamber of Deputies submitted a government amendment to the State Prosecutor's Act. We have been waiting for more than a year for the government to fulfill this promise, which it has in its programming statement, which the ANO movement had in its electoral programme. And until now, the proposal isn't here. The same applies to the law on the selection of judges in the public administration. The bill is here. He's at second reading, but we still can't, and we can't get into his discussion. Today we have a unique opportunity to make this happen. And we all know that we have a very short period of time when these bills need to be dealt with, or they will fall under the table at the end of the term. I also wanted to remind you of the programme of the ANO movement from 2017, with which it succeeded in the elections and gained a strong mandate and post prime minister, one sentence. "If we participate in the government, we will continue to negotiate with the opposition parties, we will not and priori reject the opposition's bills, we will always assess them and deal with them." We have three state's attorney's laws here. The amendments the government was supposed to submit, but they weren't submitted. One of them comes from the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. And yet we have been informed that the anti-corruption agenda will not be approved. Instead, YES will convene its own anti-corruption meeting, and it will probably not be on the bill of the State's Attorney's Office, because the government has not prepared it and has not submitted it. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] Of course, we also received various requests. Anti-corruption initiatives criticise the position and demand that anti-corruption issues be discussed at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. And it is not only a Czech civil society, such as the Reconstruction of the State, which has sent a request to all club presidents to discuss the points that are proposed, but also the international or intergovernmental organisation GRECO, which operates on the Council of Europe's ground plan. It's a group, an anti-corruption group of the Council of Europe. GRECO, of course, discussed how the Czech Republic stands up to corruption and reached very unflattering conclusions. Of the 14 recommendations recommended by GRECO in relation to members of Parliament, judges and prosecutors, which is the topic of the fourth GRECO evaluation round, the Czech Republic has only fulfilled one recommendation and this concerned in particular the ethical code for state prosecutors issued by the state prosecutors. And in many others, about half of them, nothing was fulfilled. So the Czech Republic...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-068-01-000-000.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-068-01-000-000.u4	Thank you, Mr President. So the Czech Republic did not meet the seven recommendations at all and the seven recommendations met partially. This is written in a summary from the State Reconstruction and we have the same data from our analysts, so I think it is quite clearly supported that the Czech Republic does not properly follow the recommendations from GRECO. I think it's pretty weird because citizens consider corruption to be the most serious problem in the long run. According to the April 2019 CVVM survey, Czech society sees corruption as the most serious current problem. I'm talking about long-term problems, of course, we're having a coronavirus crisis, which is probably clear to everyone. And when we look at the CVVM's research, he considers the resolution of corruption to be a very urgent 59 percent, which is considerably more than is needed for economic crime, immigration, health and citizens' security, social security, etc. Of course, as I say, the situation is modified by the coronavirus crisis, but in the long run 59 percent for very urgent, 31 percent for quite urgent, i.e. together 90 percent of people think we should add in this area. I think they're definitely yes voters. And the proposed procedure that we cut those prosecutors out of this will not lead to the intended improvement and will not lead to the fulfilment of the GRECO recommendation. I would now take a closer look at the recommendations, because according to GRECO, in 2019 the Czech Republic was the worst of 42 countries in meeting the recommendations of the anti-corruption group. So, under the leadership of the current government, we've come to the worst assessment. And it's not just Greco, it's not just Reconstruction of the State, it's not just these initiatives, but we can see it in other rankings. For example, the corruption perception index. The Czech Republic fell in international evaluation in 2019. According to the FRA survey, the Czech Republic and Slovakia mostly tolerate corruption of public officials and officials throughout the EU. So I think that all of these findings are quite serious and should lead us to deal with the programme as proposed. As regards the evaluation report from the fourth round of the GRECO Group, GRECO strongly criticised the Czech Republic by concluding that in 2019 the GRECO Group did not meet any of the 14 recommendations that contained the fourth round evaluation report in a satisfactory or satisfactory manner. Seven recommendations have been met in part and the remaining seven recommendations remain incomplete. - That's a quote from the document that GRECO published. And so did GRECO in 2020 that the Czech Republic is last in international comparison from 42 evaluated countries. [[on top of that]] This issue, of course, includes regulation of lobbying. As far as I know, we have not yet achieved satisfactory agreement in the relevant majority in the Chamber of Deputies, and I would like it if we could. In this respect, I also welcome the initiative of President Vondráček. The next topic is a transparent selection of judges. This is an issue that has just been addressed by the House Press 630, a second reading which is proposed to discuss at today's anti-corruption meeting. And then there is the issue of objective appointments and appeals by the Attorney General and other state prosecutors, which is a matter which is proposed to be discussed within the Houses of Prints 524, 569 and 476. I have already announced that if those proposals are approved at first reading to the prosecutors, we are ready to take over what Minister Benešová has prepared regarding the tender procedure for the state's attorneys, and to incorporate it in the framework of the amendments to the press, because it does not seem that in that year and quarter the bill could be discussed by the government. And then there's the issue of conflict of interest, that's the House press of 956. There, we are at risk of shutting down the register in which the property statements of politicians and other representatives are stored. This is a matter where it is necessary to respond quickly to the Constitutional Court's decision. It is necessary to deal comprehensively with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which decided on some issues of conflict of interest and that it is in line with the Constitution for current regulation of media ownership and related issues. So that's the third point of the meeting. And on the last point of the meeting, we should address the government's explanation of why the recommendations of the GRECO Group are not being met. We should address the issue of the Office for the Protection of Competition, where reform is proposed, but it has not again been submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. We should focus on further bills that the government has promised to introduce, and not introduce, such as the Act on the Protection of Corruption notifiers, where the Prime Minister said in this place as part of the interpellation that this is his personal priority in order to approve the Act on the Protection of Corruption notifiers. And to this day, neither the Justice Department nor the government have filed a bill. I don't want it to sound negative. Some things have been able to shift even because of the pressure we have developed, e.g. The register of actual owners we were discussing here yesterday. We have a restrained proposal to extend the authority of the Supreme Audit Office, where the Senate is waiting. We managed to enforce the information order during this parliamentary term with the support of YES and ČSSD, we were able to approve the Act on Professional Nominations for Supervisory Boards. So some minor shifts have occurred there, but they're not all the things that would be the object of tracking the GRECO anti-corruption group. So I think there'll be enough room in this meeting for the government to present progress in the fight against corruption. It will be able to explain, we will be able to move the bills that are needed so that they do not fall under the table during this parliamentary term. I dare remind you - this is the only program you need now or never. [[He's pointing.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-068-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. Mr. President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček will now perform with priority rights, then they are signed up with priority rights Marek Výborný for the club and Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal and President Fiala. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-068-01-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, much more briefly than my previous speaker will be speaking on the agenda for this meeting. I would divide my performance into three parts. In the first part, I would like to thank the Pirate Party for including the Government's amendment to the Law on Courts and Judges. We appreciate it as much as they are interested in discussing this press and I am sure that it will be discussed. In the second part, I would like to draw attention to the particular double-trackness of what is happening in the case of anti-corruption measures. Last week, videoconferencing took place with the participation of representatives of our movement, the reconstruction platform of the state and relevant persons to speak in the legislative process. And we agreed that on December 10, an extraordinary meeting would be called for signatures. Those signatures are gathered at the moment at the club of the ANO movement and on 10 December will be an extraordinary meeting on the subject of anti-corruption measures. Until then, on 3 December, we will be able to manage the working group of the President of the Chamber of Deputies on the subject of lobbying, where a comprehensive amendment is being prepared at the moment. [[12.20 hours]] There's been some kind of shift and agreement that we can handle the law. The program will not be the same as this meeting, we will certainly include the lobbying that is missing today. I suppose we won't be interested in the so-called. Talking point about impact assessment, because it's all about what's going on, not talking about the evaluation itself. We will certainly discuss the amendment to the infolaw and there is a great assumption that we will also discuss the amendment to the conflict of interest law, because we must respond to the constitutional finding. These are the basic points of the meeting, which will be December 10th, and which I can promise you from the speaker's desk. That's the second part of my show. The third part of my performance I would start with the classics that - even if this is true according to the theater game about seniors - it is an inability to accept the idea and the inability to abandon the idea. And that concerns the three points about the D.A.'s office. Since we are in a situation where the Minister has submitted the proposal, the proposal is no longer in the Ministry of Justice, it is somewhere in the government at the moment, however, we have the statements of the prosecutors themselves who say that they do not welcome it, that we are now dealing with the amendment of the law, that they do not wish to do so. If this profession itself does not wish to do so, when the Chief Attorney-General comes forward, that this government should not approve, that it is not appropriate in this situation, then what can I say? We are interested in really discussing certain anti-corruption measures that are in the GRECO evaluation report, which we are accused of, and the fact that we are the last in Europe is true. On the other hand, we're in some kind of evaluation round, the report was ongoing, and when I had the Minister for Justice Reform of Bulgaria here, I honestly made her laugh when I told her that Bulgaria was the fifth and we were the last. We just don't have the same starting line. So we, as the YES movement, will not support the meeting and the points proposed by the Pirate Party today at 12 o'clock on Friday. In part, our program overlaps with the 10th meeting. 12., not part of it. I hope we can discuss, pre-negotiate and approve all the points of the extraordinary meeting that will happen. Thank you again. Perhaps it would be better the next time the Pirate Party calls an emergency meeting and wants to discuss even government proposals that perhaps Mr. Michálek would call me. He's got a phone number for me. I mean, we can work out how we're gonna deal with this. But once again, I want to point out a certain double-track. It smells more like political marketing than trying to really talk about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-068-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. Mr Marek Výborný will now appear, then Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-068-01-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to speak briefly with the opinion of the KDU-ČSL. I have to correct here immediately, or edit some of the words that were said here from the mouth of President Vondráček. The convent of this meeting is not only the Pirates' MP, but there was a consensus across the opposition. And what he said at the end here isn't true. I, Mr President, was here on the floor of this hall when we gave you an interest in calling this meeting, and even on some points such as the second reading of the amendment to the Law on Judges and Judges, you were in agreement. So you weren't surprised, it wasn't something unexpected. And I am still convinced that your alibi speech, which speaks out, or is here embellishing the recommendations of the GRECO Group towards the Czech Republic, for example, is a real alibiism. Let's face it. The current state of affairs of laws and legislation, which in some way affect the anti-corruption measures or the law on courts and judges, is the business card of the ANO movement and the business card of this government. That's nothing else at all. When you look at the 14 recommendations of the GRECO Group, the Czech Republic has managed to implement one single one to date. One out of 14! I'm going to put aside the three proposals, the three amendments to the State's Attorney's Act. But here we had even more fundamental things to suggest on the agenda of this meeting, whether it was the second reading of the law on courts and judges or the amendment to the law on conflict of interest. I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to all of you, as we are here, that this is a response to the Constitutional Court ruling 38/17, and the Constitutional Court has stated that it is necessary to amend the conflict of interest law so that a request is needed to consult the register of announcements of public officials. If we don't, the register will just be closed on 1 January 2021, and I am looking forward to those questions from the editors of the holding press, such as the Mladá fronta Today or the Lidové noviny, how will the Prime Minister then be asked, and Prime Minister, what did you do to keep the register open? And so on. Nothing at all! The discovery didn't happen here yesterday or the day before yesterday, it's, I feel like, more than a year ago. We, as Members of Parliament, met here in the House, if I am not mistaken, sometime in the spring, it may have been in May or June, and yet, as the House, we could not accept this simple amendment, which is a consensus, and if I am not mistaken, there was an agreement with the ANO movement and with the Minister of Justice. So this was one of the motives why we wanted to include this amendment of the conflict of interest law in the agenda of today's proposed meeting, as KDU-ČSL, so that we could comply with the Constitutional Court's finding and not put ourselves in a position where it would be difficult for us to explain to the public in January next year why we did not deal with these matters. Unfortunately, it is treated as is customary here in the House attic. The moment we come up with a proposal, it will be alibised here that we will convene our own meeting 14 days later so that we can resolve only what we really want. And one more important point I would also like to mention, and that is the question of preparing the reform of the Office for the Protection of Competition. I think that's an evergreen where, unfortunately, the government also proves that what it doesn't want to deal with, it's just a successful attempt to sit down or simply postpone. The Senate held a meeting of a working group with representatives of the Office of the Government, sitting there, if I'm not mistaken, and representatives of some of the parliamentary clubs here from the House. There was a match. It was again, I think, at the beginning of the summer sometime in July, since it was the promise of the Office of the Government that, as far as the reform of the Office for the Protection of Competition would be concerned, there would be no progress in these matters. So talking about the government wanting to move forward in one of its flagships in its government program, that is, in the fight against corruption, is simply not true. It's total alibi, the government doesn't do anything about it. So I would like to ask, if this is announced here on the agenda of this meeting, that we should address some of the things that are really important and need to be dealt with immediately, for example, the amendment to the conflict of interest law in order to deal with them as soon as possible, because unfortunately, the consequences and consequences that we all have to explain to the public officials will fall on all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-068-01-000-000.u9	Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal, President Radim Fiala will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-068-01-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chamber of Deputies, President of the Chamber of Deputies, Dear Government, I would like to respond a little to what has already been said here. I originally thought that this agenda would be approved, and on that last so-called point, we would be able to discuss, for example, the reform of the Office for the Protection of Competition. Because that is the moment when, as Mr Výborný has already mentioned, 25. 6. a round table was held, where representatives were actually present from the government working group, who were just looking for some parliamentary agreement, so that we could have the proposal on our table today. But the proposal isn't on the table from the government, and if we wait for a government proposal, it's just that the reform isn't going to happen. [[12.30 hours]] And that reform is needed. Bill, virtually. The competition authority law, as we have it now, is just from the '90s and is grossly inadequate. The Authority is an independent supervisory authority in the public procurement market and decides on some 600 billion. That's some 12 percent of our gross domestic product, and it's definitely not a small amount. At present, as we have actually seen in this parliamentary term, the office is ruled by one person. And that's just too much corruption risk to make it work. It's not just about choosing the right person to be chairman, but it's about institutionally allowing the system to function independently, and that's why reform is needed. We are waiting for this reform, the reform is being prepared for the entire parliamentary term, and the result is still not. And since the end of the term is coming up, I believe that the proposal needs to be tabled. So I have here a proposal for some reform of this office, as it is necessary, as I believe a consensus could be found on it. I don't make any claim to authorship or that I should be the lead promoter, but I think it's time to present it. So if this meeting is not approved, but we have another anti-corruption meeting coming up in December, I would like to ask if it would be possible for this parliamentary proposal to be included, even if I expect the deadlines not yet to be met, so that this can be possible. However, I think we should discuss this as soon as possible. The current legal regulation of the office is simply from the 1990s, it is grossly inadequate, in international comparison it is clear that in the EU countries they supervise orders either by collective administrative authorities or by courts, and that is the way we would like to go. So unfortunately, it will probably not be possible to discuss this in detail at the relevant point, but I have the proposal here and I believe that it will be possible to get some support for its submission to the legislative process today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-068-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. Let me just remind you that we are not having a debate at the moment, and not even a debate on the agenda. Only those who have priority rights can speak, and I can't give anybody else the floor. The President of Radim Fiala, who has priority rights, is next. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-068-01-000-000.u12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, just a brief opinion of the SPD movement. Of course, we discussed this for a long time at the club, several times, after all, there was, for example, Minister Benešová, where we communicated about the government proposal on state representatives. We also agree that we need to discuss the necessary anti-corruption measures, move forward in this direction, but we are convinced that, for example, the Act on State Representatives, which is in both meetings - and I am glad that Radek Vondráček has presented here the government proposal for the meeting, which should be in the first decade, at the end of the first decade of December of this year - so we have also decided to communicate the Act on State Representatives with Minister Benešová and her deputies at our parliamentary club, it seems to us more elaborate, especially in personnel issues, in competitions, etc., so we have decided to support the meeting at which this law will be introduced, which will be the end of the first decade of December of this year. In other words, this means that today we will refrain from approving the agenda for this meeting, but this does not change the fact that we want to discuss anti-corruption measures as soon as possible to move the Czech Republic forward in these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-068-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. President Jakub Michálek and then President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček, at this time last registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-068-01-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to remind you that we stood quite in favour of the coalition in calling the meeting, and that we did not propose this moment to set up an investigation committee to investigate how the government's failure to prepare for the second wave of the pandemic of coronavirus in the Czech Republic had been neglected, but we really kept it close to the anti-corruption points. I think I have understood Mr Vondráček's statement differently from that of colleague Fiala, so that at the second meeting, which he proposes to convene the ANO movement, the prosecutors will not be on account of the fact that there is no government proposal. So maybe we can get this straight, see if I got it right, and the D.A.'s gonna be or won't be. Anyway, we do not insist that the government submit its own motion to the prosecutors. All we have to do is block ours from discussing it. But our guy's been here for over a year and a quarter, and he hasn't gotten to his first reading yet. And if the Attorney General or anyone else is saying she doesn't want a government proposal, I think that's her statement, but it's nothing to do with this Chamber of Deputies. Even if I understand it humanly, she probably doesn't want her subordinates to be selected by the Minister of Justice. I wouldn't like that, either, if my subordinates were picking for me by the Minister of Justice. I guess our club wouldn't work that well. About the other things we have. Office for the Protection of Competition. It's been announced that he's going to be discussing the anti-corruption group, but there's been no announcement that the lobbying is going to be discussed. So I would also ask President Vondráček to clarify that there will actually be some pre-negotiation on the bill for lobbying. As for how President Vondráček said that we did not turn to him, I wanted to remind you that we actually turned to the YES movement, through the President of Mr Faltýnek's House of Deputies, which is my counterpart, so I assume you have forwarded this information to yourself, but I never received any reply from you. If I were to remind you, I did not receive an answer from you to my question whether you are preparing something to implement the recommendations of the GRECO Group on donations to members of parliaments, which is one of the recommendations that should be clarified. So that's why I think it would be useful for us to discuss the state of implementation of the recommendations from the fourth GRECO evaluation round at this meeting at that discussion point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-068-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. President Radek Vondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-068-01-000-000.u16	Thank you. On the one hand, I will respond to questions and comments, and on the other hand, I would like to say something more from the chairman's side. I spoke for YES, and then I'd say something from the chairman's side. Yes, we don't expect him to be part of that 10th meeting. 12. was a matter of prosecutors. I repeat, to make it clear from my statement. Once again, I'm assuming ten. 12., it's committee week, it's Thursday. I hope that the committees will also adapt to this. I'll let you know in advance. I hope to meet you here, and I look forward to discussing and looking forward to discussing everything. Because if you look at it, it's 12.38, it's Friday, and I really think it's too much ambition to discuss the six points proposed by the Pirate Party today. As far as the UOHS is concerned, a government task force has gathered at this time. The ANO movement supports the separation of the tender agenda and the Autonomous Office, the table contains a fully prepared paragrafo version written by the State Reconstruction. Of course, there are reservations about that. I personally also have some reservations because there is essentially a quasi-court system and some Senate decisions. We need to talk about this in peace. There will certainly be some economic consequences, but I hope that we will work together on this issue. As far as lobbying is concerned, I think we've been dealing with that for months. All the clubs have been served, all the clubs have been expressed in some way. I have a table of basically all the comments at my disposal. On the basis of this table, a comprehensive amendment is almost written. I've complied with everyone, and there's a result in this discussion. I hope that we can do this, that we will adopt this law by the end of the term of office. I really want him. [[12.40 hours]] Well, one last thing as chairman. Yes, the Pirate Party has turned to us, the YES movement. She turned around, but it's different to make a deal and turn around. It's just two dates. We don't argue, but if you want to make a deal, you just have to agree on both sides, and there has to be some agreement that some day will be the meeting. As President of the Chamber of Deputies, when I hear a request for an emergency meeting, I am basically very limited, I have to call the meeting within ten days, and every Member has the right to receive the invitation five days in advance, so I have five days left to call it. The product of this time emergency is that we've had seven meetings in two days. And I can't do anything else like the President of the Chamber of Deputies. That's why I think it'll be more peaceful if we talk about the 10. 12th than now. I was still a little respectful of the fact that on the Gremium, which I am sure will confirm to me by the Presidents, we have had several times of fun, that we are not living in standard times, that the situation is extraordinary, and opposition clubs have acted in the sense that we should really, as the House, only deal with what is related to the covid crisis, only the necessary things, and then, if necessary, what must be effective from 1. 1. I respected that. That is why, after consulting the State Reconstruction, I set a date of 10. 12. I think we can do this. Thank you for your understanding and thank you for your future cooperation. I want to be so friendly, I want to be nice, I just want to work with the Pirate Party on this anti-corruption agenda. Thank you for your attention. But I won't support the program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-068-01-000-000.u17	Chairman Jakub Michálek reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-068-01-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor. I appreciate Mr Vondráček's speech, although he will not support the anti-corruption agenda that the opposition has presented and which we have offered to join, YES, but they will convene their own anti-corruption meeting, which will no longer be the issue of prosecutors. However, I think there should be someone from the government, perhaps the Minister of Justice, to comment on the point of prosecutors, as it is. And if she's put this on the table and she really doesn't want to put it on the government, then someone in the government's leadership should be here, I see that there's a Deputy Prime Minister - Prime Minister, a anti-corruption fighter, when there's an anti-corruption meeting, he's not here right now. But there's a Deputy Prime Minister Benešová, so he could explain to us why they don't want to include it on the government's agenda, and when it's going to be included, what's going to be done, etc. Because this is an important thing that should really be clarified. In this matter, I also turned to Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, who also advocated that the influence of the Ministry of Justice on the internal structures of the state prosecutors should not be extended, and therefore to certain over-politics within the state prosecutors' office. So I wonder how the ČSSD is built on the failure to comply with the government's programming statement here, when the proposal for an amendment to the Public Prosecutor's Act, which the government has committed itself to submitting in its programming statement, has not yet been submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. And as for what President Vondráček said, there are too many points, so I remind you that those drafts of the State's Attorney's Act, which there are three, had a merged debate, which means that there would not be any delays. There was one second reading that could be very quick, and in this we could not only promote transparent occupation of posts in the judiciary, but we could also load a proposal that would introduce the publication of that caselaw so that every judge would basically be accountable to the public, so that his activities would be published at least against the public, so that everyone could look at judgments, of course anonymous, and make their own conclusions about the quality of the judicial decision and that it would be applicable to the practice that is based on those decisions. Logically, when the case-law collections are being compiled, so the lawyers can get to know it. Since many of these precedent decisions are not available today, hundreds of them are being served because of this, it is even said that some sell those decisions to agencies that collect it and that is really undesirable. It's supposed to be in some state fundraiser. So this is another thing that would contribute to making the legal environment more transparent, because the precedent, I would almost dare to tell the court's regulatory decisions even in the lower instances that succeeded in the next review, would be available to the public. This would help to make the legal environment more transparent. So that's actually my request to the ČSSD, if they can comment on it, or if it was just opinions and screams to the media.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-068-01-000-000.u19	Therefore, I recall again that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act, we will decide on the agenda for the meeting set out in the request. We will now vote. I have called in Members and Members who are not in the Chamber, and I have signed you all off on request. Please log in with your ID cards again. We are ready for the vote, we are voting on the agenda. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number two, 87 Members registered, for 34, against no one. The proposal was not approved and therefore the agenda was not approved either. Chairman Jakub Michálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-068-01-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor. So the next time someone complains that the prosecutors aren't working, please remember today's vote, when we could have set the system clearly and transparently, put in place selection procedures, terms of office and all these matters, but since the state prosecutor's law is being postponed, it remains concreted as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-068-01-000-000.u21	I am interrupting the House of Deputies for five minutes. On the basis of the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs, we will then return to the suspended item from the 67th meeting. So the meeting will continue at 12.52 hours.
