ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-006-209.u1	209. Draft of the Pardubice Region's representative for the Act amending Act No. 243/2000 Coll., on budgetary determination of taxes, as amended / House printing 766/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 766/1. Martin Netolický, the Governor of the Pardubice Region, who I welcome here, will present this proposal on behalf of the representative of the Pardubice Region. Mr. Governor, I will ask you to take the floor immediately. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-006-209.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly state the press under number 766/0, which you have as a proposal of the Pardubice District Representation to issue a law amending Act No. 24/2000, namely the Act on budgetary determination of taxes. Let me start a little bit more generally, because none of us anticipated when the regional council approved this law or the draft law in December, and I must point out that in the Pardubice Region, this press was discussed in a really cross-cutting manner across the political spectrum, and was supported by virtually all the representatives of the Pardubice Region who were present, because we see this issue not as a matter of today's compensation, at least as part of the regional self-government, but we see it as a substantive problem that we are dealing with together with the government of the Czech Republic and, indeed, with a whole number of you, and that is financing the repair of the roads of the second and third classes. From 2015 to 2019 the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure was allocated to CZK 17 billion, just for example, an adequate amount of CZK 1 billion came to the Pardubice Region, and these funds were invested. They were invested in projects that you are also meeting, because the roads of the second and third classes are the roads that are most interested in the mayors next to the local roads, and everyone in their parliamentary work certainly meets this. We also see this bill as a turning point after 20 years of approval. I will stress one particular matter that we have not dealt with so far, because it is very unpleasant, and this is an annex to the law, which set out a specific percentage of individual regions, which, by the way, does not have any objective criteria, based on the calculation of the then Ministry of Finance and our predecessors practically the entire House, government, government, government, officials, representatives discussed how the budgetary determination of taxes will be set after fiscal decentralization, i.e. immediately after the emergence of self-governing regions. So individual regions are determined by a specific percentage, and you can't completely germinate how this percentage was enforced. Perhaps one of the doyens of this legislature would give us an answer, and with high probability also the Deputy Minister of Finance of that time, unfortunately not living today, Eduard Janota, who was undoubtedly involved in this matter. However, there is a huge disproportion in the distribution of this public money between the regions. Therefore, if you look at our proposal as well, this disproportion is mentioned and we have a proposal that would be a solution to the redistribution of shared taxes for the regions. This is a criterion - the introduction of the criterion of population, in addition to the criterion of cadastral territory of all parts of the municipality and other criteria. And the second criterion is to some extent to take account of the size of individual regions, in such a way that the redistribution would be the same as the redistribution of funds from the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, if there is any allocation, according to the length of the road network of second and third classes roads, i.e. regional roads. I would very much like this material to go through at least for second reading and then for the following discussion, because I see the government's negative position. On the other hand, we discuss the topic of the second and third-class road with the government at almost all meetings. It is a matter that is crucial to us and, above all, it must be pointed out that this property, which is not Netolický, Půta, Čunek, Šimek and others, is simply a public property that we must take care of, and I must say that unfortunately the regions do not have sufficient resources to ensure that this property is well-adjusted. I am regularly contacted by a number of regional Members from our region on specific repairs to the roads of the second and third classes - a colleague from our region smiles at me - but it is only possible to repair them if you have your own resources. We want to end the debate, when the regions get 4.5 billion here for one year, they get 3.4 billion here, they get 2 billion here according to how it goes, and de facto they don't know during the year how much money they can have and what projects they can prepare for. I would like, therefore, to begin with, with this material, a discussion of the system solution, a system solution that we consider very important in the area of regional self-government, and at the same time, please let this material into second reading. One more comment at the end of my performance to introduce you to whether you're interested in the impact of the covid on the Pardubice Region. According to the forecast of the Ministry of Finance of September last year Pardubický kraj was to have CZK 4.6 billion this year. According to an updated prediction of 3.8 billion. The impact is 800 million crowns. It is also necessary to find sufficient resources if we want to continue investing as regions, such as municipalities, local authorities. And finally, one more comment, because this is a popular theme - balances on accounts. Friends, ladies and gentlemen, you are representatives and you know that the balance in the account is not equal to the available funds. The balance on your accounts is often committed and is gradually released on the basis of the approved budget, investment plans, as well as the schedule of individual implementations. I would therefore like us to take note of this, too, because I am constantly hearing how rich communities and regions are. She's not entirely true, because if you look at the situation afterwards, it's diametrically more complicated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-006-209.u3	Thank you, Mr. Governor. The rapporteur for first reading is Mrs Věra Kovářová, whom I ask to take the floor. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-006-209.u4	Mr President, fellow Members, as the appellant has already said, the aim of the proposal is, firstly, to include in the list of shared taxes also road tax and mineral oil tax, to the same extent as current shared taxes, i.e. 8,92 %. The second change is the change in the redistribution system between regions. Each region is first entitled to a lump sum of one thirteenth of the 10 percent of the national gross tax revenue referred to in the Law. The remaining percentage of the national gross tax revenue is divided between the regions on the basis of the sum of the population ratio and the ratio of the sum of all roads of the second and third classes, with a population ratio of 0,6 and a ratio of the sum of the regional road length of the coefficient of 0,4. [[18.30 hours]] The proposal, as the appellant states, aims at introducing system criteria that are objective and measurable. So much for the introduction of my intelligence report, and I would also like to say that you have received the Government's position as House Press 776/1. So this is my intelligence report. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] Now, Mr President, if I may, I would like to propose a merger of the debate with the following points, i.e. with the House press 774 and 753. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-006-209.u5	Have a good evening. I have noted here the proposal to merge the debate with all three of the press, so we would vote on it. I'm gonna sing. All three prints? [[Yes.]] I think we are already in sufficient numbers here, which means we will be voting on the proposal by rapporteur Věra Kovářová to merge the general debate on paragraphs 209, 207 and 211. Initiating vote. Who's in? [[Voices from the O.R.]] Sorry, points, not prints. Who's against it? In voting order number 136 registered 149 Members, for 138, against none. The motion was accepted, so I will therefore interrupt paragraph 209. I'm gonna open a point now.
