ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government... [[No member of the government is present.]] I am opening the 56th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and welcome to all of you. I've just checked you out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your ID cards, and you're going to present yourself, or you're going to tell me who votes with the replacement card. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies at the request of 59 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Tuesday, July 7. We would now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Jan Čižinský and Mr Miroslav Kalousek. I'm asking if anyone else has a proposal for verifiers. If that is not the case, I shall begin the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 1, we are logged in at the moment 106, versus 104, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed members of Jan Čižinský and Miroslav Kalousek as verifiers of the 56th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I declare that until the beginning of the meeting they have asked for apologies for their non-compliance with these Members: Věra Adámková from 15 to 17 hours - Helena Válková, Dana Melková by Marcela - Tureček Kobza, Jiří Bělounek - working reasons, Josef Bělica - family reasons, Petr Bendl - family Vrána, Jiří Bláha - health Votava, Procházková Blažek - Karla Šlechtová, Andrea Brzobohatá by 11 hours - health Pastuchová, Jana Černochovášková - Antonín Staněk, Lenka Dražilová from 15 to 17 hours - Karel Jaroslav, Václav Klaus within 17 hours - Petr Pávek, Dominik Feri from 16 hours - Ladislav Okleštěk, Stanislav Fridrich - health Schwarzenberg, Alena Gajdůškovášková - Eva Pěnčíková, Ivana Kořanová - Pavel Plzák, Ivan Jáč from 16 hours - working grounds, Mrs. The members of the government apologize: Marie Benešová - working reasons, Jan Hamáček within 10 hours and then from 15 hours - working reasons, Jana Maláčová - working reasons, Lubomír Metnar - working reasons, Tomáš Petříček - working reasons, Robert Plaga - health reasons, Miroslav Toman - working reasons, Lubomír Zaorálek - health reasons. We will now proceed to the 56th meeting. The design of the show is listed on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. I will call my colleagues from the lobby, and we will therefore vote on the whole proposal for the 56th session of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the agenda. Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered is 126, for 121, against no one. The motion was accepted. I'm stating that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. We will now proceed to the first item on the agenda, and I will give the meeting to my colleague for a moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-000-000.u2	Good morning, early. I therefore open the first item of the approved agenda for the meeting, which is:
