ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-002-002.u1	2. The draft law amending Act No. 248/2000 Coll., on the promotion of regional development, as amended /German press 367/3/ - returned to the Senate I'm opening this point. The Senate returned the bill with an amendment. We received his resolution as House Press 367/4. Information on the amendment has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Jiří Carbol among us. But first, I will ask the Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová, for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and for the amendment tabled. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-002-002.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Just to remind you, it really is a very brief proposal and it is an exchange of a single word, which means that instead of a "government president," the new law will provide that the fund board will lead "the member of the government to whom the government will appoint this function." The Chamber of Deputies approved the proposal on 8 November 2019. The proposal was further discussed by the Senate Committee on Territorial Cooperation, Public Administration and the Environment. The Committee recommended that the Senate return the proposal under discussion to the Chamber of Deputies with an amendment. This amendment complements the condition under which neither the President of the Council nor a member of the Council may be in conflict of interest within the meaning of Article 61 of Regulation 2018/10-46 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the so-called Financial Regulation. We do not agree with the Senate amendment because the proposed supplement is redundant and non-systemic. The relevant provisions of the Financial Regulation are, of course, directly applicable in the Czech legal order and affect, in general, a large number of people and a wide range of cases regulated in a number of national regulations. It therefore lacks the sense that in one specific national regulation the existence of the provision in question should be reminded by such a reference entirely of excess, while in others it is not. We therefore propose that the bill be approved as approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-002-002.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. And I'll ask Senator Jiří Carbol to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-002-002.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present to you the law returned from the Senate. I have been authorized to justify to you the resolution of the Senate which has been adopted. I will just follow up on the Minister, who has therefore expressed her disagreement with the proposed change. It is really just that, in the Senate debate on this bill, there are two reasons for this change. It is a generalisation of the original standard, on the one hand, because the Prime Minister is busy and, secondly, because of the current uncertainty as to whether the Prime Minister is not in conflict of interest, with the fact that, in particular, the Prime Minister is not involved in the deliberations of the Council for the risk of conflict of interest. I leave the decision to you, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-002-002.u5	Thank you. I am still asking whether the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which was the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, wants to comment on the proposal. Mr Kubík is not interested in speaking. In that case, I open the debate and ask who is interested in speaking in the debate. President Bartoš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-002-002.u6	Hello, esteemed members of the government, esteemed colleagues, esteemed colleagues. At the beginning of December 2018, the then European Commissioner for the Budget, Mr Oettinger, drew attention to the seriousness of his conflict of interest in his letter to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Among other things, he also accused him that the Prime Minister could not be in conflict of interest and at the same time the Chairman of the Fund Board. However, he has in no way indicated that Prime Minister Babiš will resolve his conflict of interest by resigning from the head of this advisory body of the government, or even ensure compliance with Czech and European legislation. Nevertheless, the government has proposed this small amendment. Moreover, it is clear from the final audit report of the European Commission that when Prime Minister Babiš or anyone else is head of the ESS Board, of course, there is no change in the conflict of interest. On behalf of the Czech Pirate Party, I would like to support the amendment of the Senate of the Czech Republic, which does not contradict the possibility for any member of the Government to be head of the ESS Board, but also adds that the President of the Council or of the Council must not be in conflict of interest within the meaning of Article 61 of the European Financial Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 July 2018. This Senate proposal is quite logical, and if the ANO movement or the government ČSSD is serious about their efforts to increase the credibility of the government, then they should support this proposal, otherwise the words are merely a phrase. It has been almost two years since the Czech Pirate Party pointed out possible violations of European and Czech regulations in connection with some members of the government. Instead of removing the conflict of interest in accordance with the law, the government's members concerned, instead, we are forced to focus on this at the expense of a number of important topics - available housing, execution or real support for entrepreneurship and education. On the contrary, I do not agree with the argument that Minister Dostálová has made here. Since these rules are flagrantly ignored, it is precisely desirable that, in the future, if everything the Minister has said applies, we respect European and Czech laws, and it is indeed better to have it explicitly mentioned in this case as the first swallow. Therefore, I beg you to support this proposal, because it is not only Prime Minister Babiš who is facing conflicts of interest at the moment, but also Minister Toman nominated for social democracy from the point of view of the distribution of subsidies in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-002-002.u7	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. I don't see anyone, I don't report, I'm done with the debate. We shall therefore proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I've already called my pedestal colleagues, and there's an application for check-out. I've just granted that, and I'm asking you all to re-enlist with your ID cards. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 248/2000 Coll., on the promotion of regional development, as amended, according to the Chamber of Press 367/3, as approved by the Senate, according to the Chamber of Press 367/4.' The number of votes is steady. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 18, registered is 175, for 60, against 34. This proposal was not adopted. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We shall now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. Kvorum is already set correctly on the information board. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 248/2000 Coll., on the promotion of regional development, as amended, in the version in which it was forwarded to the Senate, according to the House's Press 367/3.' Initiating vote, I ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 19, 175 Members registered, for 123, against 19. The motion was accepted. I state that we have adopted the bill. Thank you, everyone, and I am done discussing this point. Opening point number
