ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-009-009.u1	9. Government bill amending Act No. 551/1991 Coll., on the General Health Insurance Company of the Czech Republic, as amended, and Act No. 280/1992 Coll., on Resorts, Fields, Corporate and Other Health Insurance Companies, as amended /Departmental Press 516/ - Second Reading Under the authority of the Government, Adam Vojtěch, Minister of Health, will state the draft bill. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-009-009.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that the proposal tabled is, in particular, a response to the Constitutional Court's finding, which, with effect from 1 October 2019, abolished a substantial part of the existing legislation on the method of occupation of health insurance institutions, on the ground that, under the repealed legislation, certain groups of insured persons were excluded from passive electoral rights, i.e. such insured persons could not have been elected at all with the authorities concerned. The aim of the bill is therefore to establish a system of transparent occupation of the administrative and supervisory boards of occupational health insurance undertakings, which complies with the requirements set out in that decision of the Constitutional Court. The Committee on Health has adopted an amendment to the proposal by Mr Kaňkovský proposing to delegate authority over the employees' insurance companies to the Chamber of Deputies. I cannot agree with such a solution at the moment, because in the context of discussions already held at the Government's meeting on the proposal and continued not only at the meeting of the Committee on Health but also within the coalition board, the view was preferred that the law should open up the possibility of running and voting for the health insurance institutions also to their insured persons as payers of insurance premiums for public health insurance. After all, the Government's resolution approving the draft law has already imposed a proposal for a solution that will take more appropriate account of the insurance contributions paid by employees in the future by the end of June 2020. On this basis, it was agreed within the Coalition Council that an amendment would be prepared to achieve this. I am therefore happy to sign up as a Member in the context of a detailed debate on the amendment dealing with the involvement of insured persons in the elections to the institutions of occupational health insurance companies. I consider it appropriate to briefly mention that this amendment retains the tripartite distribution of the occupation of the employees' insurance companies, which means that a third would be appointed by the government as before, a third elected by the group of employers and self-employed persons, and a third would be elected by employees and persons without taxable income, with the right to vote in the employer's courts for each employer or self-employed person who, during a specified period, has paid the relevant occupational insurance undertaking. The right to vote in the courts of employees would, in turn, belong to any employee or person without taxable income. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment on which we agreed within the coalition board also corrects the weakness of the original government proposal by giving insured persons the opportunity to decide on the composition of the administrative and supervisory board of occupational health insurance companies, and I therefore believe that you will support the Government proposal, as amended by this amendment, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-009-009.u3	Thank you, Minister. The proposal at first reading was ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolutions are available to us as House prints 516/1 and 516/2. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mr Kamal Farhan, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-009-009.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur, I would just like to briefly summarize in the second reading how this approval took place. The Government's bill was sent to Members on 19 June 2019. Subsequently, it was recommended for discussion by the Organising Committee. The first reading took place on 6 November 2019 and was ordered to discuss the Committee on Health. Here I would like to mention that the Government's draft law grants passive voting rights to all insured persons of the relevant health insurance undertaking and active voting rights to all insurance payers, outside employees, who have separately or jointly paid at least 0,4 % of the total amount of insurance premiums for the relevant period. The Committee on Health has discussed the House Press on 11 December 2019 and has proposed adopting a government solution. Here I would like to make a statement to Health Committee No. 218 of the 53rd meeting of 5 December: After the opening word of Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch and Mr Kamal Farhan's report and after the debate of the Health Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government Bill amending Act No. 551/1991 Coll., on the General Health Insurance Company of the Czech Republic, as amended, and Act No. 280/1992 Coll., on Resorts, Fields, Corporate and Other Health Insurance Companies, as amended, House Press 516, as amended. - I would no longer quote the following three pages here, and I would refer to Health Committee Resolution No. 218. II. He then authorised me, in cooperation with the appellant and the Legislative Department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to propose other necessary adjustments pursuant to Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. III. He instructed me to introduce myself to this Chamber of Deputies. That was a resolution. And let me briefly mention that the main change compared to the government version is the change that was actually in that amendment by my colleague Vít Kaňkovský, the way of occupying the bodies of employees' insurance companies, when the Committee on Health recommended that the members of the administrative and supervisory boards instead of insurance payers should be elected by the Chamber of Deputies. In fact, here I would just point out that on 20 January, the Minister introduced a comprehensive amendment which maintains the tripartite division of the occupation of the employees' insurance institutions. And what has not yet been said here, I would like to point out here at second reading that the amendment also regulates the method for approving annual accounts reports and, above all, health insurance plans for health insurance companies. That's for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-009-009.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. Mr Petr Třešňák is enrolled in the general debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-009-009.u6	Good evening, Mr President, dear colleagues. I would like to introduce myself to you and then, in a detailed debate, also, have made a statement on several amendments. I'd be the first to mention the one that has the 368 in the system. This is, in fact, a comprehensive amendment by a group of Members, which offers the opportunity to run for insured persons of the insurance undertaking and also opens up as the only option for all insured persons with the same voice weight to vote in the board of directors of professional health insurance companies, by means of correspondence and electronic elections. I'm gonna try to be brief because I want us to get more prints today. But at the beginning, let me sum up the questions that we have previously asked ourselves in the current legislation and decree. I mean, who's voting for the board of health insurance companies, who's the decision-makers of 130 billion. CZK in Czech health care, whether they tell someone insurance companies who are the mysterious voters and which companies have the power to influence their management and money flow. And these questions logically raised further doubts as to how transparent such elections are and whether there may be any background pressures on those big health insurance payers, because it is necessary to admit that it is not the money of the companies, but it is mainly the money of their employees that they will take to health insurance. That is why we have come up with this amendment, which allows insured persons to vote and to run for office in a given branch and employee insurance company. [[17.40 hours]] Although I will continue to regard the amendments based on our parliamentary amendment as the best possible solution to the situation arising after the Constitutional Court's decision, let me also appreciate the comprehensive amendment read by the Minister, which ultimately eliminates, among other things, the critical electoral limit of 0.4 %, so that all health insured people can now vote, except that the weight of their vote is given by the amount of money paid by the health insurance company, and even by this amendment it will be possible to vote both on a presentation and electronically. For this change, therefore, I also commend the Minister and I think that this is a very good compromise proposal, even though in our proposal we leave the organisation of elections to the Czech Statistical Office, which we consider as a guarantee of complete impartiality. However, this is a very interesting alternative and I will look forward to the third reading myself. I would also like to introduce to you other proposals that we are putting forward as pirát. It is a proposal 4167 which limits the conflict of interest, or the board of directors of employees' health insurance companies, should not be managed by persons in conflict of interest and are recipients of the money that they themselves approve. I'm sure we can agree on that here. Under certain circumstances, the Government amendment allows him to become a member of the Governing Board as well as one who is in conflict of interest if this conflict of interest is small and is not the dominant activity of that person. The prevailing activity of the person is not clearly specified if the financial, time period at which the period will be measured, who will assess it and who will, if appropriate, withdraw the member of the Management Board if the provision of the services paid becomes the dominant activity of the person. Given the uncertainty of the interpretation of this paragraph, we propose that the relevant part be deleted and the conflict of interest cease to be dealt with on a small and large scale. And the last amendment is then the one under number 4168, which we are also presenting together with our colleague Richterová, because the government amendment - I am based on this earlier - sets out the conditions for the performance of the members of the board of directors for occupational and occupational health insurance companies and sets out clear headings and conflicts of interest that a member of the board of directors may not have. In order to ensure that all members of the board of directors of health insurance companies are equal within the meaning of the conditions which they must fulfil for the performance of their duties, we propose a change just above prepared when the same conditions of conflict of interest apply to members of the board of directors of the General Health Insurance Corporation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-009-009.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Is anyone else reporting for the general debate, please? Yes, Mr. Kaňkovský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-009-009.u8	Dear Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, dear colleagues, allow me to make a few comments on this amendment at second reading. It was mentioned here that I tabled an amendment to the Committee on Health Policy, which subsequently received the support of members of the Health Committee during the vote of members of the Health Committee. As I have already declared at the committee meeting itself, my proposal responds to the fact that the Government's amendment fails to respect the Constitutional Court Award of 2018. The changes that the amendment brings in the government's form in the mechanism for the occupation of the authorities of departmental and occupational insurance companies, namely, strengthen the rights of large employers even more, and, on the contrary, neglect the rights of insured persons themselves. And it was this fact that I considered so serious that I responded to it by the proposed amendment. However, I would like to emphasise in this context, and I have also made it clear to the committee that my proposal is only a temporary, transitional solution, not a long-term solution. The Minister himself mentioned at the meeting, and it was said here today that the government is still preparing another amendment to the Act on Departmental and Employee Health Insurance. And it should be, if I listened well to the committee, during this year. I assume that the government will actually present a plan in the framework of the next amendment on how to occupy health insurance bodies in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner. With regard to the criticism that has been brought down on this amendment in some media, as well as on the part of the Chamber of Commerce and large employers, I would just like to say that I see this criticism as proof that large employers, but also some financial groups, at this point in time, have a fundamental influence in occupational and occupational health insurance companies. And you have to ask if this is the right thing to do, if that's how we want it. It should be noted that the original model of employee, departmental, corporate insurance companies had a slightly different character. Today, health insurance companies are competing with each other in some way and it cannot be said that their status at this time corresponds to the status of occupational and occupational insurance companies, possibly with the exception of Skoda. Insurers of these insurance companies today are far from being just soldiers or members of the security forces at the Home Office insurance company, as well as maybe they are not just soldiers at the Military Health Insurance Company. They are ordinary citizens who have applied to this insurance company. And there's also a small percentage of those so-called state insured people. I therefore believe that, in general, representatives of insured persons should have the right to intervene in the elections to health insurance bodies. That is why I have chosen the method which is now known from the elections to the bodies of the General Health Insurance Corporation, the principle of representative democracy. And once again, I stress that this is not an appropriate solution for a long-term horizon, but it is a solution at the moment when the government proposal does not respect the Constitutional Court's finding, or at least not the way the Constitutional Court intended it to be. Then I would also like to comment on the critics who criticized the amendment adopted by the Health Committee from the point of view that it should perhaps be some smugglers for existing Members. Here I would like to say that I myself did not sit in the last or during this parliamentary term at any administrative or supervisory board, and I also want to say here a commitment that I do not plan this in the future, because I am an active doctor and I do not consider it appropriate. I would also like to stress that KDU-ČSL, for example, does not have a Member in the Governing Board of the VZP both in the past and during this parliamentary term, so it is only on the strategy and responsibility of individual political factions here in the Chamber of Deputies. But I'm gonna go back to what the Minister's been calling today, and I'm gonna follow up on a colleague of Třešňák. I appreciate the fact that, in the meantime, the Ministry's slightly provocative amendment - and I was not hiding that it was a bit provocative and that it was a little bit a call to the Ministry - has transformed it into an amendment that the Minister will be reading today, as he announced. I can't say at this point how we're finally going to stand up to him because he's 16 pages old and he's been there since last night. But as some of these parameters have already been introduced or commented by colleague Třešňák, we consider the direction to be correct. We will certainly analyse it honestly as a KDU-ČSL club by the third reading with experts, and if our opinion is such that it is better suited to the Constitutional Court finding that it is better suited for insured persons to have a guaranteed right to participate in the occupation of supervisory and administrative boards of health insurance companies, then I can say that if we come to this conclusion, we will give priority to this amendment in the final vote before that which, as I have said, should only be a short-term solution. But I can't give the blank check at the moment, we need to analyze the amendment. Thank you for your attention, good evening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-009-009.u9	Thank you. Mr David Kasal will make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-009-009.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'd follow up on a colleague of Kaňkovský. Just like he said it was. For me, it is a bit difficult for me - a complex amendment. Actually, the day before the vote, or today we learned about it, so we're going to analyze it, too. And I have one question for the Minister. At a time when we are considering some structural changes, so should a reduction or an increase in the number of insurance companies be considered in the future, does this not block this proposal? Because we will have it changed transparently, but there will be two thirds in the insurance company that will not be affected by the state. And if the state wants to change some structure, I wonder how it's going to do it. So I'd like that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-009-009.u11	Thank you. No one else is reporting to the general debate, reporting. Minister. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-009-009.u12	Thank you for the floor. I will only respond briefly to Mr Kaňkovský. Indeed, it is true that the government proposal was not entirely perfect in this regard, and we declared that we still want an adjustment. And the amendment, as I read it in a detailed debate, solves the problem. Indeed, the amendment excludes the clause 0.4 percent of the premiums paid, which is the first thing, and therefore gives the option of voting for employees, self-employed persons without taxable income, in short, for all groups of insured persons who actually pay public health insurance premiums, which is the principle that the Constitutional Court has also found that there should be no discrimination in this regard, no specific nominations from specific organisations, such as trade unions and the like. So it really is that any insured person will be able to be elected and, at the same time, all those who take out insurance premiums in some way will be able to vote will have an active voting right. So in this respect, I think that the amendment that I am going to read should fully respect this and set the elections transparently. As far as Mr Kasal is concerned, this is, of course, a question, because at present legislation, as set up - the law on occupational health insurance does not allow merging. It's about some other amendment to the law, because at the moment, if we wanted to merge insurance companies, then actually the relevant health insurance company would have to be in so-called. bankruptcy, it could not pay its providers' obligations for about six months, etc., and there are relatively strict criteria, so there will be a need to make even more substantial changes to the law. This is not a question of organ occupation, but it is a question of the conditions for mergers at all, as they are in the current legislation. On the other hand, it should also be noted that in a number of those insurance companies, the employees of the state will be represented as they are today. That's how it is today. Today, in fact, one third is the government and two thirds are representatives of employers, trade unions, health insurance company of the Ministry of the Interior, Military health insurance company, military representatives etc. Here, basically, nothing should change from the current situation, but it is necessary to adjust the conditions for some possible mergers, which are now relatively strict in the law, and it is about deeper legislation. But we are currently preparing some analysis in this direction and possibly a change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-009-009.u13	Thank you. There is no further application for the general debate; I am ending the general debate. I do not see interest in the final words, we will go to the debate in detail. Mr Třešňák is the first to be entered into a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-009-009.u14	I will just sign up for the amendments that I mentioned in the general debate. It's 3968, 4167 and 4168. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-009-009.u15	Thank you. The Minister has also entered into a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-009-009.u16	Thank you. I am applying to Amendment 4120, which comprehensively regulates the involvement of individual groups of insured persons in the elections of health insurance bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-009-009.u17	Thank you. There is no further application for a detailed debate. I am ending the debate in detail. There is no interest in final words either. There was no proposal that we could now vote on, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Now we're going to look at point 10, which is
