ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-007-454.u1	454. Proposal for the presence of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations in 2021 and 2022 with a view to the year 2023 /house print 876/ And I ask the Secretary of Defense, Mr. Metnar, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-007-454.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will start off a little untraditional and begin by apologizing for not being here for the first point. It wasn't from my plesier, but, as many of you know, I attended a meeting of top constitutional officials who weren't at the castle, but were currently in Lany. So I've done my best and I've apologized from the last points so I can be here on those points, because discussing not only the small mandate, where I thank you for your approval and support, but also this great mandate is one of the most important points for the Ministry of Defence. So let's start with that. On this point, we assume that the global pandemic COVID-19 will lead to a deterioration in the security situation. The pandemic and the follow-up economic difficulties will further reduce local governments' ability in crisis areas to address security situations and problems and deepen social contradictions. This can lead to an increase in migratory pressures and waves. However, we also see how a pandemic can cause a difficult situation in our home as well. The proposed proposal does not increase claims on the Army of the Czech Republic. It presents a lower financial intensity and will not lead to a limitation of the military's ability to contribute to solving possible subsequent waves of disease in our territory. We propose an extension of the operations already under way, namely a cumulative action of up to 851 soldiers in 2021 and 946 soldiers in 2022. So it is less than the current mandate that allows us to send up to 1,096 soldiers. Our priorities in the proposed mandate are clearly stated. It is a collective defence in the form of involvement in the enhanced forward-looking presence and protection of airspace in the Baltic States and devolve troops into NATO's rapid response forces. Here's just a brief remark. This point is taken as regards Baltics, respectively. strengthening the forces of rapid reaction, only note. Another priority, of course, is military activity in Afghanistan and Iraq. Other areas are involvement in EU and UN missions in Mali. We are aware that political developments in Afghanistan and Iraq can significantly affect the way and size of our involvement. In Afghanistan, the agreement concluded between the United States and the Taliban envisages a gradual reduction in military presence only after a full withdrawal in the spring of next year. The Alliance is expected to continue building long-term relations with Afghanistan and supporting its armed forces. In the mandate, we propose to reduce the numbers in the Resolute Support mission and, if necessary, the subsequent assistance alliance mission in Afghanistan from the current 390 to 205 soldiers. We are based on experience and Iraqi demands in Iraq, and we are therefore proposing a reduction in the mandate from 110 to 80. The situation is not changing in the Baltics, which is why we propose to contribute in the same way as we have so far, up to 290 soldiers. Furthermore, we propose to re-engage in the protection of the airspace of the Baltic countries for six months in 2022, from Lithuania. Within the European Union, we focus on the training mission in Mali, where we propose to continue the current number up to 120 soldiers, where, as you all know, we have been in charge of these forces for seven months since mid-June. As of August of this year, on the other hand, we ended our participation in the European Union Maritime Operation Atalanta. Here we have worked three officers since 2009. In other missions and operations, we ask for approval of approximately the same number of persons as in the current mandate. We come from the fact that we will continue to carry out the same tasks in them. The estimated amount of funding for foreign missions for 2021 is approximately 1.73 billion. CZK and in 2022 is estimated to be 1.8 billion. Crowns. Last year, i.e. In 2019, 2.4 billion were planned. The koruna and pumped was 1.57 billion. This year we have planned 2.34 billion. Kroner, we'll see how much of this amount we're going to draw. [[17.10 hours]] I would also like to stress that from a legal point of view, all proposed foreign operations are in accordance with international law and we are not starting any new operation. The proposed scope of activity in foreign operations is an expression of the willingness and readiness of the Czech Republic to continue to actively contribute to international security. This makes the Czech Republic a responsible and respected international partner, which has a significant effect both within NATO, EU and UN missions and ad hoc in multi-national coalitions. Finally, honourable Members, let me ask you to support this proposal and to approve the mandate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-007-454.u3	I thank the Minister of Defence, but in order to continue, we should have here the Minister of Foreign Affairs, which we do not have here. I can give the floor to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-007-454.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, now President of the ČSSD Club Chvojka has fresh information that the Minister is here in a moment. We've got a half-time election. So I think my intelligence report, and I'm not only logged in after my intelligence report as an MP, but I'm going to give you an opinion on the ODS club, so I think that's exactly what I'm going to use up. This will save the Minister of Foreign Affairs so that he can arrive during the elections that we have at 5:30 p.m., and we could continue after the elections around 6:00 p.m. in the discussion in the presence of both ministers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-007-454.u5	Thank you. I understand, and that's how we're gonna do it. I would just ask you, rapporteur, to address the news report at this point, then it would be ideal if the Minister spoke, then I would open the debate and you would speak for the ODS club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-007-454.u6	That is exactly what I intend to do, Mr Vice-President. So if you don't mind, I'll start the news report. As the Minister of Defence has already said, a proposal to send troops into foreign operations, so-called. a large mandate is presented to us regularly at two-year intervals. We are discussing it a second time in this parliamentary term. As Chair of the Defence Committee and rapporteur on this point, I am pleased that the presentation of this material has preceded several negotiations, whether on the ground of the Defence Committee or also at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That is why I think Minister Petříček should be here, because he and the joint meeting of the two chambers of Members and Senators of the Committee on Defence, Security and Foreign Affairs took part. In these negotiations, we discussed the various military missions, their future and their broader geopolitical contexts in quite detail. I would like to thank both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this regard for an honest approach. I will no longer discuss in detail the content of the material presented here by the Minister of Defence. As has been said, the number of troops in Afghanistan and Iraq has been reduced in particular. The same degree of involvement can be assumed in Mali and in the Baltics, where our air forces will also be involved again for six months in the protection of airspace. I shall merely summarise that the Defence Committee dealt with this material at its 34th meeting on 10 June 2020 and approved Resolution No. 175, which is registered as press 876/1, and this resolution, ladies and gentlemen, reads: Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening speech of the Minister of Defence Mgr Lubomír Metnar, Chief of General Staff of the Czech Armed Forces. Maj-gen Ing Aleš Opata, report to the Chairman of the Defence Committee Mgr Jana Černochová and after the debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic adopt the following resolution: Chamber of Deputies I. consents to: 1. acting forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence Resort: (a) in the mission of the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty RESOLUTE SUPPORT and any subsequent mission of that organisation in Afghanistan, in total up to 205 persons for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2022, (b) to protect the Czech Republic's representative office in Kabul, Afghanistan, in total up to 20 persons, for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2022, (c) in the context of the training and support of the Iraqi Defence and Security Forces in Iraq, at the headquarters of the Global Coalition for Combating Da 'esh in Iraq and Kuwait, and in the framework of the North Atlantic Treaty Training Mission in Iraq, in total up to 80 persons, for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2022, (d) in the MULTINATIONAL FORCE AND OSCERVERS on the Sinai Peninsula for a total of up to 20 persons, for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2022, (e) in the United Nations mission of UNDOF on Golan Heights, for a total of up to 5 persons, for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2022, (f) in the context of the enhanced presence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation in the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Poland in a total of up to 290 persons, for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2022, (g) for the performance of the tasks of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for the protection of the airspace of the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Estonia, in total up to 95 persons for the period from 1 April 2022 to 30 September 2022, (h) in the European Union operation ALTHEA in Bosnia and Herzegovina for a total of up to 2 persons, for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2022, (i) in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation operation JOINT ENTERPRISE under the KFOR forces in Kosovo for a total of up to 8 persons, for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2022, [[17.20 hours]] (j) in the European Union EUTM training mission in Mali, Burkina Faso, Niger, Mauritania and Chad for a total of up to 120 people, for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2022, (k) in the United Nations mission MINUSMA in Mali, in total up to 15 persons, for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2022, (l) in the European Union operation EUNAVFOR MED IRINI for a total of up to 5 persons, for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2022, 2. Once again, the Defence Committee gives its consent, which is subsequently recommended by the Defence Committee, that the Chamber of Deputies agree to send members of the Ministry of Defence to strengthen the command structures of NATO, the EU and the United Nations deployed in the operations of these organisations and to send members of the Ministry of Defence acting in NATO, EU and UN structures to operations under these organisations outside the territory of the Czech Republic in a total of up to 25 persons, for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2022, 3. The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the action of a deployable module in NATO operations outside the territory of the Czech Republic in total up to 56 persons for a maximum period of six months per year from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2022; II. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic notes the allocation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence to the Force of NATO's rapid response, in total up to 1,400 persons for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2021 and in total up to 400 persons for the period from 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2022; III. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to inform the Chamber of Deputies about the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations in 2021, no later than 30 June 2022, and about the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence's Department in foreign operations in 2022, no later than 30 June 2023. Under this three is II. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, which is what is happening. And the committee also instructed me to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Dear colleagues, don't worry. In fact, by introducing you to the motion for a resolution in such a lengthy manner, I will not have to repeat this resolution again in a detailed debate, but I will only refer to it. At the same time, I wanted to tell you, you know that, in accordance with the Constitution of the Czech Republic, this is our Chamber of Deputies, which should approve an identical resolution approved by the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. In the event that we approve a resolution other than the Senate has approved, the process in the Senate must be repeated. And it is assumed that the government should take a different position on this as well. As rapporteur for this press, I would also like to inform you that we have agreed with the Minister of Defence that, given some of the information that came out last week, in connection with the elections in the United States, the Pentagon has probably issued an opinion on how they will actually withdraw soldiers, their soldiers, American soldiers, they. And that is an opinion, which is not from official sources, but is based on an article, that they should do so from the beginning of 2021. That is why Mr. Defence Minister and I have been calling to see if the promise that we had by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs continues to apply, that these changes will not affect our mandate, nor will they touch the possible cancellation or reduction of the number of our diplomats working in Kabul, Afghanistan. This is actually why we would like to have Minister of Foreign Affairs Petříček here, because when we discussed this point on the Defence Committee, the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that they were not planning to do this. I was there to advise that I would like this opinion that they did not plan such a thing, that is, the abolition of the representative office in Afghanistan, so that the Minister of Foreign Affairs here would tell us on a microphone. I believe that will happen after the break. In the meantime, as rapporteur for this point, let me introduce you to the letter sent to us by the Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, just as members of the Defence Committee, where he comments on the representative office in Afghanistan: "Dear President, in the meeting of the Committee on Defence and Security - we have two committees, but that does not matter - On 10 June you asked the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic a question about the future of the Czech representative office in Kabul. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is engaged in the evaluation of the representative offices of the Czech Republic. The topic of foreign missions of the Czech Army and their interaction with our embassies will be discussed by the highest constitutional officials of the Czech Republic at the meeting scheduled for September this year." Cut. Today they were debating, and I assume that it is important for honored colleagues to learn it from the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Therefore, please do not think of it as an obstruction that we would insist on the presence of the Minister here, but we want to learn from him as a person who is responsible for the government of the Czech Republic for our foreign policy in order to learn the relevant information. [[17.30 hours]] At the same time, the Minister of Foreign Affairs writes that the Czech Republic is interested in continuing to be part of international efforts for security, political and moral support for Afghanistan. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is fully aware of the material and human efforts that the Czech Republic has put in -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-007-454.u7	Madam rapporteur, yes, I must now interrupt you in accordance with the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, and I must at the same time interrupt the debate on this point, because we are waiting for firm voting points. Let me just remind you that we are in a situation where the Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar mentioned the material, and she introduced us to the report of the Committee rapporteur, Mrs Jana Černochová, which will continue with the report. And then the Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček will perform. Only then will we proceed to the opening of the debate. Now, let's move on to the fixed electoral points. The first is point number
