ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u1	7. Members of Kateřina Valachová and Patrik Nacher's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial executioners and enforcement activities (executive order), as amended, and Act No. 119/2001 Coll., laying down rules for cases of simultaneous executions of decisions, as amended /German press 986/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. The Government's position was delivered as House Press 986/1. I ask that the proposal put forward in favour of Mrs Kateřina Valachová, who I hereby give the floor to. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour to present this parliamentary proposal. I dare say that this parliamentary proposal and the systemic introduction of protected accounts in the Czech Republic is a great achievement, and I am glad that we agree on this in principle across the political spectrum. What's going on? Long-term in the Czech Republic, what is absolutely unimaginable, for example, in countries to the west of us, is that debtors who properly pay their debts, their liabilities and pay these payments to creditors can get into a situation where the remaining funds that they already have under law and law belong to their family, to their livelihoods, to the basic needs of life, and also those funds that our law protects and always protects, can be built on the account of the executor and make it impossible to access them and then use them precisely for the livelihood of the debtor and his family, which the law guarantees in itself. This guarantee, as we all know, here in a number of cases, leads to the fact that, on the contrary, the debtor who pays properly gets into the debt spiral, into the debt trap, and, of course, the consequences of such a life situation unsolvable end up being paid by us taxpayers out of all our pockets. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] What it does in terms of social cohesion and society, increasing people in debt traps, we, frankly, have been hearing this as MEPs for perhaps decades from the mouth of experts, but also many who are calling for a solution. [[Number]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u3	Madame, I am going to interrupt you because the noise in the Chamber is quite large and I cannot hear what you're saying properly. Please, you have the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I know you're in a legitimate conflict of interest, because North Moravia and Karvinsko certainly want to approve the protected account as soon as possible, yesterday was too late. Thank you. So protected accounts are something that we no doubt need, and I am glad that today we should, I believe, introduce protected accounts in the Czech Republic to one vote. What's it gonna be in practice? In the future, therefore, there should be certainty if you have the means left of wages and wages that are really yours, so-called "unusable" and go to account, so you are sure that you will really be able to make that money as fair as it is fair as it is fair, use it and provide for your family's livelihood. That is, the principle is yes, to pay debts, honestly and fairly, but not to owe slavery. The second situation, which will be dealt with by protected accounts, I am very happy about it, is a situation where, as a state, we try to ensure, for example, a contribution to housing or tax bonuses for the benefit of children, the needs of children, their housing, the social situation of families. Even these amounts sent by the State are to be non-executable, which means inhospitable, they simply belong to housing or, for example, the needs of a child. Even this protected account will ensure for the future that these funds will actually remain in the pockets of children, if you can say so, and will serve what we legislators want to see to it that these funds and this assistance, which the State is paying out of the state budget, are directed to support the family and support the children. So that's also very correct. [[18.00 hours]] As regards groups of people to whom a protected account should help, these are three groups of people. For one thing, they are people who have an account at the moment, and they are already being executed, and unfortunately, they are repeatedly confronted with the fact that they are being wrongly executed by an executor with the fact that the executor does not know what funds they are, and that they are therefore incorruptible, they are currently in the account. I note that people are meeting this repeatedly, and right here, let's say, they are stepping on steps that we, as legislators, have approved over the past months and years, and which have led to an increase in unforgivable amounts in order to ensure that people are motivated to earn more and more, to pay more in instalments, but at the same time to keep them more in order to live properly and decently and to secure their family and to get out of debt as quickly as possible. That's the first group of people. The second group of people - I have to admit that these are the most at risk at this point in my view, and they most justify voting on one vote today. It is tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people who are at risk as a result of the Coronavirus economic crisis - because we realize that a large group of workers today is actually more than half a year to 60 percent of wages, and we are in danger of repeating the situation in 2009-2010, the economic crisis where a number of people who work honestly spend their entire lives honestly paying taxes, e.g. low pension, gets into secondary debt and we won't be able to help them. This group of people is supposed to protect the protected account preventively, that is, they are people working and pensioners who have an account at the moment, they are not being executed, but we want to prevent them from becoming, frankly speaking, victims of a similar situation to that of people as a result of the economic crisis in 2009-2010. It's fair and fair. And the third group that the protected account as a system should help are people who at the moment are completely out of the picture, say, a proper, illuminated economy within the grey, or perhaps even the black economic zone, and we allow them to have a new, real chance, a chance, and also to have some benefit for them, to set up an account with the bank, with the assurance that they will not be able to re-create their funds in the future, by introducing a protected account and protecting their funds in the future. Here I want to highlight the fundamental added value of the proposal - and we could be maximalists, and Patrik Nacher and I are maximalists, so you would see that if we had 200 votes that we would present to you. But we don't have them. So we are presenting what we have a general political consensus on and the support of experts. And the added value of this third group of people is simple. We leave from 1 January that we will continue to one-off, if an account is built up - now I am talking about people who do not have an account, establish it, subsequently it will be built up, so we leave there the release of three times the minimum of life from 1 January, and the added value is that the new rules of the parliamentary proposal that you have on your desk ensure that, at the latest within six months, a protected account should subsequently be established and that the six months of this three-time minimum of life will have the chance of having these new mandatory ones protected and they will be sure that they will be paid in one single, one month, and at the same time, when they apply for this payment, they will also ask for the establishment of a protected account. It'll be one task, one step. And I think this against the current state of affairs, when these people have no chance of getting into the proper account system, keeping it, being able to pay for it, securing their life needs, and then being protected by the protected account regime, so that added value is. That's the third group we're after. Finally, I would like to say that it is a great honour that I have had the opportunity to try for two years to win a majority in the Chamber of Deputies for the support of this proposal, and I appreciate the support of all the Members' clubs that are here in this honourable Chamber of Deputies. And I am glad that in 2020, although not entirely pleasant covid time and possible economic crisis, we are able to agree on such essential things that will really help people. Members and Members, thank you for this, and I am very proud of you, and I am pleased that we have found this consensus, which, frankly, is waiting for fifteen years, at this very moment. Thank you. One last point - and it will be addressed by Patrik Nacher closer - is a question that is a great added value of the protected account, and that is the freeness of keeping a protected account, with the fact that the normal charge of the act is linked to the original account by the fact that, at the same time, there is a rule that appreciates other members' clubs, and I think that most, namely that, as a result of the execution and resolution of the situation where people are active, they pay debts and follow the rules, so that we avoid the practice of some banks in the future - I note some banks - when these charges increase following the execution. So this is also to be forbidden next time. Thank you once again to all the MPs, and thank you for the recommendation of a colleague who has announced that we are lacking a government, so I believe that someone from the government will come. Finally, I would also like to say for the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club that we are very happy as politicians and political parties, that we have the opportunity to push through and conduct the debate in the House and to be that force, because our Second Chance programme humanizes the steps in executions, and I am glad that this is the next step that we are taking towards the enforcement of the accelerated debt relief of seniors, young debtors, the faster debt relief under the new insolvency law. And I believe that together with you, with other colleagues, we will push through to the end of the Chamber of Deputies a number of such proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u5	Well, thank you, too. I would like the rapporteur to take the floor for first reading, Mr Jan Chvojka. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u6	Good evening, colleagues. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, what can I say as rapporteur? First, ideologically or factually. If I may, of course, I agree with this proposal as a member of the parliamentary club, which is Vice-President Kateřina Valachová. I think it is very necessary for the Czech Republic, for the citizens of the Czech Republic, and I am also glad that after those few years when the protected account is only being talked about, it is actually finally getting on the House version programme, which has a great chance of being - I believe today - approved in the framework of Section 90. I also thank Kateřina Valachová and Patrik Nacher for the fact that they really worked it out, and anyone else will say that it was his credit, so he will not be right, because Katka Valachová and Patrik Nacher are really the two who have been working on the Institute of Protected Account and who have been doing so since the beginning of this parliamentary term. Therefore, I think that the proposal should be approved. I hope that it will not be vetoed, despite the fact that when one looks, especially as rapporteur and former Prime Minister of the Legislative Council, that the government has had some reservations about it, it must also be said that the Government's position is in agreement and that those reservations, after some detailed analysis, are not of a fundamental nature enough to prevent the proposal from being approved at first reading. Let me remind you that we dealt with the protected account 14 days ago at the key meeting of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. There were actually two different versions proposed by Kateřina Valachová and Patrik Nacher, plus, I believe, the version of Mr. Feranc, we met them and I repeat once again, glad that it is better and faster to create a viable version that would be presented in the first reading in Section 90, here we have here on the table. [[18.10 hours]] The versions we had on the Constitutional and Legal Committee were, first, worse than this version, but secondly, I also think that the discussion of the 545 press, which is such a means of change in executions, so there is still a long way to go, there was no second reading, then there was no meeting of the Guarantee Committee to deal with the amendments, possibly read at second reading. Logically, this will not be a third reading for long, so this is the easiest way to introduce the Institute of Protected Account into the Czech rule of law, and I believe that the journey will not be quite winding or thorny, but that, in an hour, this day, the press will be approved by 986 and that it will go quickly to the Senate and then to sign the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u7	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which I have Mrs Alena GajdůGajdůšková signed up. Mr Hrnčíř is signed up with a factual point, but he has nothing to sign up for because the general debate has not yet been opened. So please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, Members, Minister, Kateřina Valachová, both the rapporteur and Jan Chvojka, presented this proposal more or less. Kateřina Valachová very detailed with the reasons for this. I will only allow myself to support the proposal and highlight some of the views that I think should lead all of us to approve this proposal, preferably at first reading. At the end of the year, the measures imposed by Kateřina Valachová and others end, the obligation of banks to release a maximum of four times the minimum of life, or a built-in account of a person's life needs. I remind you that at one point it was only double, and the increase responded to the current situation where a lot of people get into trouble by reducing their income. Debts are a very nasty matter, and when someone falls into them, they are very grim and very sad stories that each of us, as an MP, probably knows, because people are looking to us to help them. But so far, there have been very few ways to really help these people. And we have to say that it's not just the irresponsibleness of some or just the fact that they can't count, but I could tell stories where people got into debt traps either because they became guarantors of someone they wanted to help, whether it was a family member, a friend, I know the stories when the partners broke up, divorced, and the partner paid debts for her husband for years, who then died. A protected account is a precaution not to repeat the situation from 2008 to 2010, i.e. from the time of the economic crisis, when a lot of people got into debt traps uninhibited because they simply decreased their incomes, stayed out of work and so on. These problems are solved by some, by the way, to this day. We don't want people who work and pay their debts to get caught in debt traps, but they're being liquidated by wrongful executions. That's what Kateřina Valachová was talking about. I am convinced that we must appreciate that Kateřina Valachová and Patrik Nacher, the petitioners, or, if you wish, the proponents of this bill, have been able to negotiate the proposed conditions both with relevant ministries and ministers, as well as with the Czech National Bank, with the Czech Banking Association, but also with the Executive Chamber, employers or NGOs that help people who have entered debt traps. We Social Democrats say that working must pay off. A protected account is then a measure for them to see it this way, that work pays off, even those who have been in debt, whether by their carelessness or not. If these people are sure of a protected account, they will no longer have the need to work black, do not move into a grey economy, thus preparing further problems by reducing income, whether it be for retirement or sickness, where these amounts are then calculated from those income that people have at a working age. As I said before, the proposal is discussed with all relevant players who encounter debts, debt settlements, executions. Furthermore, it is important for the proposal to start to apply from 1. 1. 2021, so that it will continue smoothly to follow up on the measure I was talking about at the beginning. I therefore ask for the support of this bill, namely the support of the proceedings in Section 90, i.e. at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u9	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Jan Hrnčíř. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll just respond quickly to the proposal. Of course, we support every step that will help debtors in their difficult situation, and we welcome the institute of the protected account, so we will also support the discussion in Section 90 so that this law passes as quickly as possible. But it's just a partial solution again. We have a proposal, and we regret that the government of the YES, the ČSSD and the members of the KSČM have rejected it to us, that the principal should be paid first and then interest should not be paid, because this is the result of the execution that consumer credit costs are rising at a frightening rate and then people are getting into these problems. So we would like to have this House's support for these proposals that we have been putting forward here in the long run. In any case, we support the institute of the protected account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u11	Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher will speak in the general debate and will prepare Mr Marek Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, have a nice evening. I'd say a few words, too. I'm going to try to mention information that hasn't come out yet, so you'll have the institute of a protected account as well as the trash. First of all, why did we separate him from the 545 from the draft of the execution order? Because we believe, and I believe that the institute of the protected account has general political support across the spectrum, I will now not discuss the various details of the protected account, but it has that support. And since there are some 30 amendments in that 545 that cross each other and so on, it turns out that even though the number 986 is clearly in 545, we can be faster, clearer, more transparent, the institute itself is a carrying thing, so that we can make it from January 1st next year. [[18.20 hours]] For me, the protected account - I'm here in the first term, so I'm gonna follow up on what Kateřina Valachová said - should have been here for me a long time ago. In Germany, so called. P konto, albeit on a slightly different principle than the one set up by the protected account, but it should have been a long time ago and maybe the misfortunes that we're talking about here and which my colleague Gajdůškovášková mentioned here would not have happened. What is the objective of a protected account? I would divide it into two things - the protective nature and the preventive character. The protective nature is that it protects the means, the unforgivable amount. That precautionary will allow people who would be in that gray zone and actually work with cash, so they will work, or there is a greater likelihood that they will work that way, cash-free. Now, to whom, what the protected account brings. Of course, the dlužník will be protected by the unforgivable amount. Despite the name, as it sounds, an unforgivable minimum or an unforgivable amount that should be untouchable, so it just happened and it happens that one executor is executing wages, the other money on that account. Here I would like to remind myself that we have increased the unforgettable minimum three times this year, increased three times after it has not moved for four or five years. That means, for these people, it's really a crucial amount so that it doesn't happen that if they have nothing left, then there are two moments. First, they go into the gray zone, they cancel their accounts. I don't think so! If they have nothing left, they'll cancel their accounts and get the money in cash, which means they're completely out of the official structure. The other one, it's just as bad, maybe worse, is that they're repeatedly indebted logically because they're taking loans for their mandatorial family expenses, rents, energy, grocery shopping, just that life. Well, it doesn't actually have a solution, then the debtor is actually permanently in there forever. However, a protected account should also bring something to the creditor. And it brings to the creditor that he has more insight, because when someone has money in cash, the overview doesn't have that kind of information, than when we actually get him to do the protected account, or I call it increased probability, because it's never gonna be safe, so actually, by having a protected account, it's gonna be pretty clear what means he has, what means they're going to go to a protected account, and what they're going to go through that creditor's executor. So even for the creditor, it's added value. I don't think I'm gonna speak for Katka right now, but for myself, maybe she'll join us. In addition to all this, my ambition was to improve or simplify the position for employers, because today it often happens that a person is a liability to the employer in terms of the complexity of calculating the deductions from wages. So we were thinking about how to put this in, how to simplify it. A trošičku bit of that was answered by my colleague Feranc's proposal. As much as it's not in this proposal, I think it might be a good stepping stone to get back at it. This means simplifying the wage reductions, simplifying the calculation, because it will indirectly lead to people being employed more than they are so far. If someone's kicking someone out of work today, they're often in the process of execution, because it's a big administrative charge for the employer, especially when there's more of those people in the execution. It is, of course, also financially difficult to answer all the questions of the executors, to send exactly those sums, to be under the curate, if they did not calculate it exactly, etc. So I think this could be ambition number two to simplify it for employers by some new concept of calculating the wage deductions. And now for the principles that the protected account is on. She's already described it a little bit, so I'll take it structurally or enumerately. That protected account is a checking bank account, and of course it is required to set it up. The court of execution and the executioner shall be informed of this established protected account, who may request extracts from such a protected account. One mandatory, which is the debtor, is entitled to only one protected account. Banks aren't responsible for the revenue payments, which means there's no filter. It's up to the employer today. We're back to what I was talking about a while ago. As far as charging is concerned, we talked about it, so the establishment is free of charge, and keeping that account should not deviate from keeping the current account as we all know it. Which is quite important to these people, because if you look at the tariffs today, the current account is usually free today, when different requirements are met, five or six banks are even without the demands, or we're talking in the low order of ten crowns. While the account held is in execution, we are already in hundreds of crowns and that is a substantial difference. That means we're working with this, too, that actually those people who have the least money, so that they don't pay the most on fees, however I realize it, and we both realize it, and I feel that everyone who supports it, that even for those banks, of course, it will mean some kind of obligation. That means it's very helpful for us, and I'm glad for that, because banking fees and pointing them out are kind of my heart thing. So much of a bite about what the protected account is about, which led us to separate it from printing 545. And I'm gonna ask for your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u13	Thank you. Next in line is Mr Marek Výborný, Mrs Jana Aulická will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u14	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Minister, dear colleagues, colleagues, I may be surprised here, although I think that will not be the case on the subject of a protected account. I have here to thank the petitioners, both Kateřina Valachová and Patrik Nacher, for having managed to get this such a serious topic here already on the ground of the Chamber of Deputies, although the protected account is of course not the first time here. It was already on the table in previous parliamentary periods, but unfortunately, the mistake was that it had never been completed. Maybe it's one of the positive effects of the COVID-19 pandemic that really forces us, and rightly forces us to look for mechanisms, institutes that would protect people who, even under the heavy effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, income losses, etc., were in the future - because we are really dealing with the future - so they were protected. The protected account institute here was described in detail whether by the petitioner himself or now by co-president Patrik Nacher, so I will not repeat what was said here. It's really a crucial thing to do, not only to protect the very people who are getting into debt traps, so that the spiral stops if possible, because that's what it's all about. We're not gonna solve those debts protected by the debtor's account, but we're gonna keep them from falling. It's actually a trampoline that's a chance, it's a second chance to stay in that system. But what is crucial and crucial, and what has already been discussed here, is that we want to help these people stay in standard economic relations. What happens today? Most debtors simply get rid of the logic of everything, get rid of the accounts, and go off to a gray economy. And nobody wants that. If Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček or Vice Prime Minister Schillerová were sitting here, they'd be the first people to do it. Yes, we urgently need these people in that system and not in the gray economy, because, of course, public budgets are generated from this. And it is the institute of the protected account that will help it and, at the same time, the basic funds will be guaranteed for the most basic needs of life and conditions of those debtors, their families, their children. I think these are the huge benefits that the proposal brings. [[18.30 hours]] We have also discussed it repeatedly on the ground of the subcommittee on the issue of enforcement, insolvency and debt relief. Indeed, it is also part of the amendments to the executive order, to the large, robust House of Press 545, but because the time is running - and I will just remind you that in the spring we have approved here by 1:30 a.m. in the grand law of lex covid justice, among other things, the measures that are now, but I warn you, only until 31. 12th of this year, the one-off amount has increased to four times the minimum of life, which remains in the debt trap for those who get into trouble with repayment. But it's only until the end of this year. We're going to triple the protected account, it's some kind of compromise. So, yes, as a KDU-ČSL MP, I can clearly say that we support the draft of the protected account and we believe that one of the parameters, or, say, one of the instruments, will be set up in this way, one of the instruments, to prevent further deepening of debt traps in the future. We will allow, I stress, we will also allow those debtors to pay off their debts, and we will also generate the fact that these people will remain in the standard economy and will not be out of place, in the grey economy. Still, I'd like to draw attention to some of the little things here. The proposal here was commended for having the government's consent. I discussed this text with representatives of the Czech Banking Association. I discussed with representatives such as the nonprofit sector, the People in Need organization and others. There are small things that need to be really fixed. And that, I point out, is also for the benefit of those who will establish the protected account. If I give one example, the proposal now assumes that the protected account will be set up within five days. We believe that, and ultimately, the representatives of the banking sector agree that there is no reason to leave that five-day break - because that might be the time when the speedy bailiffs simply hit that amount. And if we're going to prevent it, there's no reason why a protected account shouldn't be set up to wait. Of course, this assumes another step, because the bank officer in the case of setting up a protected account has to verify somewhere that there is no duplication, which means that the person concerned does not go there with a fraudulent purpose to set up a second protected account. But that, of course, solves it if the protected accounts are recorded somewhere. Ideally, of course, to hold some kind of logical package, so in the central record of executions. Thus, if the list of protected accounts is kept in the central register of executions, then the bank officer will very quickly and very simply verify that the person concerned cannot set up a second protected account. So that's one of the things that would definitely be worth repairing or editing. So are some other things to make the system work. I'm stressing that. So that the system is operational, so that banks can manage it, because that's where the cooperation is necessary. Even the translators, authors, communicated the matter with the Czech National Bank, with the Czech Banking Association. So we really need to bring the result to a legislative level so that it can actually start to work. So, if the bill is approved today under Section 90, I announce that I am already negotiating with the representatives of our Senator's KDU-ČSL and independent club, and we will correct the bill in the Senate even after consulting the plaintiffs so that we can return here to the House and vote on it here. If it were otherwise, I am, of course, prepared to deal with it here in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u15	Thank you. With the priority right of Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I can more or less follow up on my previous speaker in my speech, because even our colleagues who have read the proposal, even if they agree with him in a meritorial way, they have some comments about it. They think it's really not about the fact that we should discuss the proposal in the so-called '90s'. Therefore, on behalf of two MPs, ODS and TOP 09, I dare veto a proposal for the 90th. Let's not veto the shortening of the deadline. Let the deadline be reduced to the ten-day option, of course, it is a time that will give us some time to adjust the proposal with some amendments. So the proposal has the support of civil democrats, but it's not for a vote in the so-called '90s.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u17	Thank you. I've noticed this procedure. There was a veto here in the proceedings pursuant to § 90, para. 2. With the factual remark of Mr Patrik Nacher and Mr Marek Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u18	Well, in that case, I would have taken the liberty of doing it formally right now, so suggesting that we shorten the deadline to discuss 50 days to 10 days, so that we can make the second reading to the next meeting, which will be in that case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u19	Okay. Member Marek Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u20	Thank you. Thank you, Patrik Nacher, for coming up with this proposal to shorten the deadline. I think it's important and justified. It will, of course, be better than sending a not-so-quality result to the Senate with our knowledge. Thus, we are also able to correct this on the part of the constitutionally-legal committee in the framework of standard negotiations, to submit an appropriate amendment, which I am prepared to consult across the parliamentary clubs. And certainly, if he listens to me, through you, the President, President of the Faltýnek, but he is now in hugs or captured by Mrs Valachová, so... [[Mrs Valachová is speaking with Mr Faltynek at his bench.]] We'll wait. I wanted to say that, with the knowledge and consent of President Faltýnek at the next meeting in October, we will be able to place the press firmly in such a way that it is discussed so that we can actually get it to the Senate as quickly as possible within the time limits as possible, because the effectiveness is important to everyone. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u21	Thank you. Member Hana Aulická will speak in the general debate, and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to say before the speech by my colleague from ODS, Mrs Černochová, that we are finally doing something that will help in this practice. Well, unfortunately. Let's do it again. We're going to cut back, but don't be mad at me, I think it's this proposal that's being discussed in the subcommittee on execution, constitutionally-legal committee, we've been talking about it for at least three or four years, so we're just gonna kill it now, because we want to do a little bit of editing, or we want to get back to it. I think we have two other House prints here, especially that of the government, where this proposal is currently appearing. Now he's been removed to speed up the solution, and instead, we're just filling in something that I think really made sense. I can say that I am very sorry for this, because I am also a co-signer of the amendment, which is - and now I do not remember, I apologize - in this House of Government press, which is ready. And I have to say that I was convinced that this proposal, which is really here today, is one of those things that should be done quickly and immediately, because we are not having fun, that it is in five minutes twelve, but half an hour after twelve. So I just thank you so much and it shows more how some clubs have access to this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u23	Thank you. Member Kateřina Valachová will speak in a general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u24	I'm not gonna pretend it's disappointing. However, as soon as Jana Černochová announced the joint action of the Civil Democratic Party and the TOP 09, we agreed between the benches that 10 days is acceptable and that the two clubs that could otherwise veto this procedure will not do so. So from this point of view, at least I welcome this procedure and thank you for it. However, allow me, because I have not really dealt with this issue for just 24 months, or for the last two years here in the House, but indeed for fifteen years. And 15 years ago -- sorry, ten years, ten years ago, I was here when the heat of the right-wing government barely allowed the doctor Motejl as the first Czech Ombudsman to protect debtors at least so that they have the possibility of single picking twice the minimum of life. Even then, the debates were a lot like today. These are actually no new arguments, which is why I hope that we will actually spend ten days here with colleagues from ODS and TOP 09 on the explanation of specific comments and that we will no longer delay approving the protected account. [[18.40 hours]] I am not going to delay at this point, because it is clear that unfortunately, and I am very sorry, we are not voting today, but I want to see that, as far as the detailed comments of the government are concerned, I have specific answers to all of them from the Government's point of view, and within the ten days I will use the communication with other colleagues to convey this reasoning to them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u25	Thank you. Mrs Jana Černochová, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I wanted to respond by your means to Mrs Aulická, because it was clearly said here that the proposal is going exactly the opposite way in some respects than we would have liked it to be. So, my colleague, do you want the Senate to give it back to us so that the deadline is even longer, or are we going to agree on the maximum possible shortening of the deadline and we're going to discuss the proposal very seriously? I think that from the point of view of the time period, my proposal is very lenient and better than the version that Mr Výborný was talking about. If the Senate gave it back to us, we overruled it, it would take a lot longer. So I'd like to correct your performance a little bit, that some clubs here aren't completely correct. Both the Club of Civil Democrats and the TOP 09 are very correct in this matter, and they don't want to prolong it by returning it to the Senate and putting together God knows when we'll be back to the top.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u27	Thank you. President Faltýnek, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u28	Yes. Thank you for the floor. This argument here, the ladies present, is completely useless. Totally useless. After all, this morning, on the grémium for our club, I proposed to include this point in agreement with the petitioners that our ambition is to discuss this point as soon as possible, so that it starts to apply from 1 January. And here I promise my colleague Výborný that I will do everything in my power to put this on the agenda of a meeting that starts on October 20th, if I am not mistaken, and we will discuss it as soon as possible. I swear on it, okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-007-007.u29	Thank you. And at this point, I am ending the general debate. Since the veto was brought to the hearing pursuant to § 90 para. 2, we will continue the classic discussion of this press. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. By its decision, the Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? It's not like that. I'll check you all out, please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the commandment to the guarantee committee. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 43, 83 Members, for 83, were against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. [[Member Rais says his voting card didn't work.]] You're not good at the card. Okay. But you're not questioning anything? [[He's not questioning you.]] The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? It's not like that. So now we're going to cut the deadline. The deadline has been reduced by 50 days to 10 days. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 44, 88 Members signed up for 81, there was no one against it. The motion was accepted. I'm done discussing this press. And the last point of the program we have is
