ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u1	488. Support for private entities in live culture I ask that President Miroslav Kalousek take the floor for the plaintiff of this point, who, if he agrees, would also be the rapporteur for this press. Mr. Chairman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me draw your attention to a small but very important group of people and ask you to support the resolution that I will later be able to read. When restrictive measures came, not only business centers and restaurants closed, but also cultural operation - theatres, museums, concert halls. It must be said that the Ministry of Culture did an admirable piece of work at the time and quickly intervened, supported all the subjects that are connected to public budgets anyway, so I want to thank the Minister for not having to worry about the institutions of the Czech Philharmonic Or National Theatre. The support really worked very professionally and well. However, the system of support that the Ministry of Culture has set has failed several entities, and these are mainly self-employed people who live in culture, whether as musicians or verbatim or ballet art. They could have received both bonus periods under the Compensation Bonus Act if they had it as their business and had no further employment with the exception that we were talking about, unless the secondary employment was related to pedagogical activity, because each of them was teaching on the humane for a few hours and they should not be punished for it. So they could receive a compensatory bonus until June 9, 2020. On June 9, restaurants opened up, shops opened up, and the vast majority of businessmen could start making a slow profit again. However, this was not the case in culture. Culture remained dead, festivals were canceled, performances were canceled. There just wasn't any demand. And those people who are a living culture, they actually go to work so hard every day, they train hard every day to maintain their virtual competence. But no one's gonna give them anything for that. They're paid for the show that wasn't. They only have two choices. I assure you, I am not fighting to save their jobs. This is not the problem of saving jobs. That's the problem of saving that very special competence. They're creative intelligent people, they'll find jobs out of their field. But we will lose the wealth of their virtuoso powers if we leave them without support. The Compensation Bonus Act, which we approved and according to which all traders were able to draw on, in Section 5, gives the possibility of a third period of time, by empowering the government to set it a third period of time for the disciplines and the days on which such limitation took place. I believe that this concerns exactly those self-employed people in live culture. This period is from 9 June to 31 August. And if we ask the government and the government will oblige us to set this time period by regulation for a living civil servant, we are talking about budget cargo in low hundreds of millions. We're not talking billions, we're talking - I'm guessing - about 200, 250 million, that's all. But we will be extremely helpful to those people whose income actually moved well below the minimum wage during the summer. They were basically incomeless. This is the problem of one, i.e. the problem of those self-employed people in live culture. The second problem is drawing on the COVID - Culture program. I ask now not to be seen as a criticism at all costs. There was simply an effort to set up a program from which private institutions, whether self-employed persons, s. r. o., or small theatres, often said to be the business in culture. I don't like that word. It makes it look like they're people who drown in money because they provide cultural services. It's not like that. I've never heard the term "business in social services" or "business in health services." And it is true that there are certain fields in this country that provide public service, and that is health, that is social matters, it is education and it is culture. There they provide services everywhere both to entities belonging to the state, regions or municipalities, or to private entities and providing services of equal quality. But we shouldn't say that we're only interested in some and others are not. I believe that what we should be interested in there is, above all, the quality of the service provided and also the irreplaceability of the loss when we lose one of those service providers. The COVID - Culture program is set up so that you can only ask for wasted costs. That means where an invoice has already been issued for a contract that could not be withdrawn, and the invoice has been paid, it is possible to request from that invoice reimbursement program. But that's how, let's say, big promoters of big concerts or festivals work, buy a service in advance, pay an invoice, and they fit into the program. But the vast majority of cultural institutions and businessmen can't fit in there because they don't buy services, they produce a program, they have costs spread out throughout the year, and their problem is that they don't have the receipts, not that they have paid invoices. Of course, the self-employed are equally involved. They basically have no other costs than their own energy or the purchase of broken strings. But they don't have the revenue. I would very much like us to ask the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Industry, because it actually administers the Ministry of Industry and Trade, so that the programme can be redesigned more in terms of the philosophy of wasted income and not wasted costs. I don't want to formulate exactly what the program should look like right now, of course, that's what the experts will do. But at this point, it doesn't work. And I'd like to ask the relevant ministries to suit the program. The third thing I would also very much like to draw attention to, although I still hope that this will not happen, but the growing epidemiological numbers are very alarming and cannot be excluded that there will be more and more, more severe restrictions. Perhaps, in the resolution of the Government or the Minister, we could draw attention to this and ask that, in the case of that pessimistic scenario, rapid and effective support programmes be prepared in advance. If they don't need it, thank God for it. If necessary, just make them up. [[11.20 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, this is not about saving jobs. It's about saving the huge capital that's in the virtuosity of these people. That's the wealth that's been made here for centuries. It hasn't happened since yesterday. And I think we should make sure he has a future. And if he has a future, then we must save the present. It's not - I repeat again - too expensive. And it would be an enormous, immense shame to lose this wealth, because there are segments where when the continuity is interrupted, it's irreversibly lost. And it would be a terrible shame. I dare invite all of us not to do the damage if possible. I therefore call for a short three-point resolution, which I will ask for support and which I will refer to in a detailed debate. One point would be that the Chamber of Deputies asks the government to set a third period of time for the civil servants operating in live culture pursuant to Section 159/2020 Coll., on a compensatory bonus, from 9 June to 31 August. Two: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Industry and Trade to adjust the conditions for drawing in the COVID-Culture programme to take into account the specifics of the operation of cultural institutions. Thirdly, he asks the Minister of Culture to prepare rapid instruments of support for private subjects in a live culture in the event of a future necessary restriction on cultural production. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u3	Thank you, Mr President, and I therefore ask you to become rapporteur on this point. That's what happened. So I can open a general debate. Mr Dominik Feri is enrolled in the general debate, but following the notification of the SPD, Mr Rozner has priority rights in the debate, who will speak on behalf of this club. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u4	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Government. Some of you probably suspect that before I was elected a Member of this House, I was a musical group manager and organizer of cultural events all the time. So I was, and to some extent I'm still on the same boat with the people and subjects we're talking about today. I do not want to interfere with the details, so that I do not have to be difficult about it, but I dare say that, thanks to my personal experience with this industry and the constant and to this day-to-day contacts with people working in this field, I have something to say from a professional point of view on this issue. Before I get to the concrete proposals for measures that could help this area, I would like to describe a little who the subject is in live culture. Many of us often think that he is one or the famous singer or actor who is sympathetic or unlikable to us according to what kind of genre he is close to us, or how critically or commendably he is expressing himself toward any of our political parties. These are certainly the most visible representatives of culture, but by far not the ones who are the most. Entities engaged in private live culture include hundreds of agencies, organizers and event producers, thousands of unknown artists, tens of thousands of people working in technical and production companies in different positions. According to their professional association's qualified estimates, these are up to 130,000 people who work in this cultural industry. Adding to this the downstream advertising industry, whose live culture is an important client, the tourism and transport industry, may be up to a quarter of a million people. I don't count their families in that number. To all these people, this state took almost all income from day to day as a result of more or less necessary measures against the pandemic of coronavirus. However, not only did he deprive them of potential earnings, but he thwarted their often several years of investment in cultural projects, which are both financial and, say, intellectual, character. A small part of these investments is irreversibly lost because they are non-transferable in time and place. Another part of these projects is seasonal and are only feasible under certain climatic conditions. So if they didn't take place this summer, the next opportunity is in spring or in summer 2021. And I don't know if that's true. To these companies and people, the state, which we also represent here, has taken almost all income for a whole year, perhaps even for a longer period of time. He hasn't really done anything for them until now. In recent years, they have paid CZK tens of billions of dollars annually to the public budgets without asking the state for anything. There are, of course, a number of other disciplines that are very affected by pandemics, but I dare say that the cultural industry is one of the most affected. It is often said that an entrepreneur must create certain reserves for worse times. I'm sure that's true. But it cannot be expected from anyone that they can create financial reserves for years of cultural business under the conditions of a ten-million-dollar closed purchasing power market still below the level of the poorest Western European countries. To put ourselves in this situation, let us imagine that all of us, the members of this House and the ministers of the government present here, were told that from tomorrow we are probably not receiving any salary or compensation until the elections. However, we have to cover all personnel costs, mortgages, run regional MPs, pay assistants, expertise, meet voters. And if we want to defend our mandates in the fall next year, we can somehow fund and organize an election campaign. And if we can't afford it? We should have saved some money. After all, we take our salaries pretty high. Hand on your heart, which one of us could do it? Similarly, there are private entrepreneurs in living culture. Only their mortgages are called technology loans, regional offices are warehouses, assistants are called employees, voters are fans of social networks that need to be kept in touch, and campaign advertising is an advertisement for their next year's projects. Not a happy vision, is it? Sometimes I also hear that these people of culture should go to do something else, like the field or the construction site. In addition to the fact that according to the laws of this country, it is not possible to release all employees tomorrow, end loans and terminate lease agreements, I would like to make the following comparison. We don't tell pilots who don't fly, either, to go dig. We do not send tour bus drivers who do not ride, we do not send manure and we do not recommend wiping the floor to delegates who are failing travel agencies. It is simply a professional profession often requiring many years of practice, education and various certificates. If these people end up with their cultural profession - and it is indifferent whether it is artistic, organizational, or technical - they will hardly return to it. And that is going to mean absolutely inconspicuous consequences for the whole area of culture. Prague and large regional cities may not touch it so much, or only to a limited extent. But I live and move my whole life in small towns, towns and villages. In the long term, I watch cultural, cinema, theatres, clubs and, after all, restaurants close here. The situation was already considered before this coronation. But if we don't help the cultural industry now, in a year or two, we'll find that the only culture we have left in small towns is hot bottles of television. And that would be a great pity, because our nation and our language have survived various pitfalls, oppression, occupations and crises in the past due, among other things, to culture in the environment of small towns and rural areas. It is so obvious that culture plays an important social role besides art, so its support is in the public interest. [[11.30 hours]] And now a few concrete suggestions on how to help private actors in the field of culture quickly, especially in a situation where it is very likely that within a few days, the epidemiological situation will get worse in a matter of weeks tops, so that we will be happy to go to the restaurant for dinner after 8:00 p.m. to play at least the recorded music from the radio. From my point of view, this is quite a realistic view of cultural activities in the following period. 1. It is necessary to extend the so-called 25-year-old for self-employed persons in the field of culture and to extend the remission of the obligation to pay advances on social and health insurance at least until the end of this year. The situation is that, at the moment when we pull the handbrake and end the small possibilities of earning these CFIs, the advances calculated from the revenues of 2019 must start paying again from September. 2. The obligation to pay corporation tax advances to affected legal persons engaged in cultural activities resulting from the 2019 tax return should be waived, at least until the company tax return for 2020. These companies are mostly wholly or mostly income-free, but they have to pay tax advances as if they were earning as much as in the previous year. 3. It is necessary to quickly prepare and run the COVID - Culture II program, which will allow the allocated amount of CZK 900 million to be spent by the end of the year. COVID - Culture I, enabling 50 per cent of the wasted costs to be reimbursed, is running in these days, but its conditions and technical complexity of the application are so inadequate that it is already highly likely that even a quarter of the dedicated funds will not be exhausted. The COVID - Culture II programme must be administratively simple and depend on easily measurable and detectable parameters such as the number of tickets sold in 2019, the turnover in the previous year or the volume of contracts terminated due to the so-called force majeure intervention in 2020, etc. No endless scanning of hundreds of invoices, five-fold repeated copying of the ID and address of suppliers, as is now the case in COVID - Culture I. It is essential that entities for whom live culture business is a so-called secondary activity within the meaning of the relevant legislation should also be entitled to such financial assistance and which form the largest group within entities affected by restrictive measures as a result of the pandemic in the cultural area. 4. It will also be necessary to look again at the Value Added Tax Act. We in this House approved a reduction in the tax on tickets for cultural events from 15 to 10 percent a few months ago, but this commendable measure does not address the situation of the subjects or the situation. projects for which more than one part of the tickets were sold prior to the validity of this amendment and, as a result of epidemiological measures, their conduct had to be postponed indefinitely, respectively. in a better case for 2021, with a significant increase in costs associated with this. According to § 20a para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is necessary to grant the tax on the date of receipt of the payment if that date occurs before the taxable transaction takes place, i.e. the action in question. In other words, if the entity sold the ticket before the amendment to the VAT Act was effective and the implementation of the event for which the ticket was intended had to be moved up to 2021, it was not subject to a tariff reduction of 15 to 10 per cent, and this amendment is valid to him as a dead winterer. 5. Similarly, we should amend the Act on certain measures to mitigate the effects of an epidemic of coronavirus identified as SARS-CoV-2 in the field of cultural events - the so-called Act on cultural vouchers. When we approved it in the spring, probably few of us wanted or could have imagined that this pandemic would still be here in the autumn and winter 2020 with an overlap to 2021 and who knows what to do. This law therefore only remembers the events that were to take place by the end of October of this year. It is now clear that most cultural events will not take place after that date. Their organizers are in no way protected. Also, they will not be able to refund the admission fees from which they have paid VAT, pre-sales charges, advertising campaigns and advance payments for services. It is therefore necessary to redefine the terms in this law and to think about a situation that no one wants, but what can happen if the translated actions cannot take place even in the summer of 2021. If, after the last October 2021, when the withdrawal period expires, customers will mostly demand a refund for tickets, the entire cultural industry will collapse as a result of insolvency and the judicial system will be completely overwhelmed by hundreds of thousands of claims for amounts in the order of hundreds of crowns and thousands of crowns. 6. It is also necessary for the government to realise the depth of the problem of cultural industry and to put in the draft budget for next year a certain amount of funding for this segment, which would bail out at least the first quarter of 2021, if the restrictions resulting from the pandemic continue. 7. Last but not least, it is necessary to think about the future of the cultural industry. If the government of the Czech Republic does not inspire at least elementary confidence in the future of culture in the Czech Republic, this sector will completely collapse with all the related consequences of moral, health, economic, administrative. It is now controlled by fear. It is a fear for the future in the minds of people who are existentially dependent on this field. But perhaps even worse is the fear of customers - the fear of visitors, viewers and listeners. These people are afraid that they will infect themselves with an insidious disease at cultural events. These people are afraid that the state will ban cultural action and they will be left hanging money. These people are afraid of losing their income, so they prefer to save money. These people are actually afraid they're scared. It is therefore necessary to combat this fear. One thing is the possibility of insurance for cultural events. At present, coronavirus, quarantine and the abolition of cultural events as a result of measures taken by the State against pandemics in the exclusion of perhaps all of Europe's available insurance companies. This means that there is no way to insure against this risk at any cost, unlike jaundice, broken legs, storms, windstorms, etc. However, if the State could provide insurance undertakings with a guarantee on the risk of insurance events as a result of such measures, it would certainly be possible to create such a product on the market, the areas of cultural industry to restore customer confidence and to move this market with vision for next year. In doing so, the State could have a 100% impact on the risk of an insurance event and would have held this risk in its hands far more than when it provides guarantees to banks for loans to industrial enterprises under the COVID programmes. However, the most important thing to save the cultural industry is to communicate a clear plan to the public for the following months. If, at this point, our only real hope is to return our lives to the normal state of the vaccine, let us tell the public and people in the cultural industry straight away. Our plan is that we're waiting for the vaccine, and until then, we have to survive somehow. The vaccine is ordered, if so, and if everything goes well and works, we may have it available in December. Then we need three or four months, I don't know, five months to inoculate the most endangered parts of the domestic population. And when that happens, there's no reason for further restrictions and bans. Then cultural events can start again in original dimensions. It is hard and unpleasant, but if there is no other plan, it must be said openly so that all private entities in the field of live culture can be arranged accordingly. At the same time, the proposed measures must be taken urgently to prevent collapse. [[11.40 hours]] I will also bring forward the motions for resolutions, which I would like to vote on separately after the items. Motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to adopt without delay a set of legislative standards and organisational measures enabling the rescue of private entities which, as a result of anti-coronavirus restrictive measures, are prevented from doing business in the field of live culture, in particular in the following way: 1. The Chamber of Deputies is calling on the government to extend the so-called Compensatory bonus for living culture till 31. 12. 2020 and forgive those self-employed persons the obligation to pay advances on insurance premiums, health insurance and pension insurance premiums and contributions to state employment policy by the same date. 2. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to ensure the waiver of payments of advances on corporate taxes resulting from the last tax return submitted for the calendar year 2019 to legal persons active in the field of live culture by 30 June 2021. 3. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to quickly prepare and start implementing in practice the COVID - Culture II subsidy programme, which will financially support private entities operating in the field of live culture and allow the total allocated amount of CZK 900 million to be spent in support of live culture by the end of 2020, and it is essential that entities for whom live culture is a business within the meaning of the relevant legislation should also be entitled to such financial assistance. secondary activities which form the largest group within entities affected by restrictive measures as a result of the pandemic in the cultural area. 4. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to include in the draft Act on the State Budget for 2021, which it will submit to the Chamber of Deputies, an amount of CZK 2 billion in support of private entities operating in the field of live culture. 5. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to submit to the Chamber of Deputies an amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, which will allow private entities active in the field of live culture to grant value added tax until the date on which the taxable performance was granted, i.e. the date on which the cultural events of 2020 were cancelled or moved. 6. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to submit by 30 September 2020 to the House of Amendment No. 247/2020 Sb. of 13. 5. 2020 which adjusts and extends all the time limits contained in this Act which, as a result of the ongoing anti-pandemic restrictive measures, are not up-to-date or satisfactory. 7. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to submit a draft package of measures to the Chamber of Deputies, which will include guarantees in the form of insurance, insurance guarantees or any other form of government guarantee for tickets sold for cultural events planned for 2021, which will be cancelled as a result of anti-pandemic measures. 8. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to submit to the Chamber of Deputies a framework timetable for releasing the limits of the number of persons who may be present at cultural events in 2021 following the evolution of the curve of the number of people infected with Coronavirus and the utilization of hospital bed capacity in connection with COVID-19 disease." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, in the debate, Mr Dominik Feri will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, yesterday the Minister of Health announced new measures concerning the organisation of internal events, and in a few moments young artists, promoters, operators of cultural facilities, halls, etc. began to turn to me. - a little ironic at first. That if it's tied to the seats, we'll take the chairs to the hall and figure it out. But then they started to realize the unpleasant truth that the concert on Friday would be canceled, or very threatened, even the concert on Saturday next week, and that's how it's gonna be until further notice. And when the situation gets worse, it closes completely. We have presented President Kalousek with some resolution that formulates our demands. And I would like to add to that, in view of what we went through in March and April, what principles should be generally supported by culture. It has already been mentioned that culture has different forms, it is diverse, very colorful, it is not only a culture in stone houses, but it is a culture young, it is an alternative culture. This should be adapted to the support measures. And maybe first. In general, the Ministry of Health and the Government should treat culture and these measures by limiting it, so I should support the culture in some appropriate way. That means, if I say a - you can't do your actions, I have to say B - we will help you. Directly, by loans, in any other way. The principles on which support should stand are mainly simple. We know very well that some government programs were not the most accessible in terms of technical security, in terms of bureaucracy. That maybe some of those stone institutions, big institutions with lawyers can handle it, but a small promoter from the county city will have a lot of problems with that. It must be simple, understandable, not subject to a mountain of completed papers. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there's anyone in this room who wants one of the victims of this unprecedented pandemic to be culture. It is not a matter of opposition - coalition, it is not a matter of parties, which I can also prove by the fact that colleague Rozner has had a very good speech here, because he knows the environment, worked in it, and really the hat down, named, I think, very painful places of Czech culture. But the problem with culture was always that it was the last one on tape. That she was such a Cinderella, that money didn't flow much in those normal times. But now I want to assure the Minister that if he comes up with any program of aid and support for culture, he has our unparalleled support. And I believe that our votes will be heard and our resolution will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u7	Thank you. The next enrollment is Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková in the general debate. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u8	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Dear Minister, fellow Members, I am very pleased that we are having this debate here today, although I confess that I am never thrilled to include these points in the agenda outside the negotiations on the laws. But culture for us Social Democrats is a national heritage. Source of national identity. The bearer of values. I am very glad that my dear colleague Mr Kalousek has included culture among the public services. Unlike others but also public services, culture stands and falls with people, with their talent. It's not enough to learn something here. You can't do culture without talent. That is why, from the outset, we have also tried to support proposals that have taken into account the specifics in the field of culture. This was the agreement on compensation for self-employed workers in the field of culture. More than elsewhere, investment in people and their talent must go. [[11.50 hours]] But speaking of live culture, I want to draw attention to the last situation that came to me from the field, and that the Ministry of Education at this point does not recommend visiting schools. It should be to consider regional sanitation stations, whether they can do it in a region and somewhere it is so dangerous that those schools and pupils should actually stay in classrooms or quarantines. But colleagues, while ensuring hygiene rules, a visit to the theatre or other such stationary event, where the viewer sits, does not scream, sings, basically is a safe activity. And as has already been said here, it is important to maintain continuity, to keep really everything that goes with it, whether it's those who do this living culture, actors, singers, but it's also necessary to raise viewers, raise consumers, offer people really cultural experiences. Maybe they need it today more than ever. And I think the kids need it, and maybe the seniors need it. It's just culture cultivates a person as a person, but it cultivates the whole society. And I'm glad we're having this conversation in the Chamber of Deputies today. I therefore very much support the efforts of the Minister of Culture Luboš Zaorálek on the real support of living culture. You know, I've been in politics for a long time, and I've been through a lot of those culture ministers too, even here with my colleague Kalousek, and I have to say - and now I'm not saying it because he's my party colleague - but really, the current Minister of Culture is doing what he says in the field of culture, and he's trying, he's trying very hard, and I'm very happy about it. I think it should be that they are trying to pick up culture as an important cultural heritage, to point out that culture is the national cultural heritage, is the source of our national identity, but it is also an economic category, as many previous speakers have already pointed out. And this is what we need to know in all these contexts. I thank you once again for the inclusion of this point, and I believe that the resolution finally approved by the House will be very supportive of the efforts of the Ministry of Culture of Minister Luboš Zaorálek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u9	Thank you. With a factual remark, President Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u10	I had no idea that the Ministry of Education issued such a general recommendation to visit theatres, concerts. I admit I'm sorry. On the other hand, if today's schoolchildren have the same reflexes as I used to, they'll be full of theaters and concert halls, because once the Ministry of Education doesn't recommend it, there's no other way to behave. However, I would like to point out that the Chief Hygiene - I would like to say this here - Dr. Rážová made it clear from the concert halls and theatre halls that there are basically no positive cases. This is mainly due to the fact that people who visit the theatre and attend concerts have some natural discipline in them to follow the rules and safety recommendations, so there is really no risk. So if someone from the Department of Education comes to you, don't go to the theater with the kids, I wouldn't look back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u11	Thank you. Mr Kubíček is reporting for the debate. We are in a general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was going to ask the Minister of Finance to take part in this debate, to postpone this programme for a moment because he is attending a teleconference with the Prime Minister, so I would like to request a 30-minute recess for an ANO meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u13	Thank you. There was a request for an ANO meeting, or a recess for a meeting. I will, of course, comply with this request. I'll meet you again at 12.25. Until then, I am interrupting the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, the pause has ended, so we will continue with the interrupted general debate. And with priority rights, I have here Minister Lubomír Zaorálek, so far the last application I have here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u15	Can you hear me? Yes. Have a good afternoon. Every time I want to say something fundamental and longer, I'm reminded that I need to speak briefly, because otherwise we won't make it. So I can't include you with a sufficiently exhausting speech, as I imagined, but I have to cut it awfully short. Then I will speak quite briefly. First thing. I'm glad that this point has been ranked, because it would have been rather bad if it hadn't lined up. The worst thing would be if the House weren't interested in culture, wasn't interested in what's going on in it, or wasn't interested in how it's covered by one of the areas that, as it's generally known here, is one of the hardest affected, and as it's been suggested here, it probably doesn't end because the atmosphere, I'm not saying that there's an apocalypse going on, but the atmosphere is not so favorable. I thought the atmosphere would be more favorable. I admit that I imagined that autumn might be calmer and that we'd be back to normal, but wishes don't matter. So I am glad that this is being discussed here, that I am very grateful for the subject, that there are even a number of things that I would quite like to agree with, but it is not worth repeating. I appreciate the fact that we've done something in culture at this extraordinary time, that we've been able to put 1.6 billion in the field of living culture, which is almost a multiple of what was normally put into it. Of course, that's not just my credit, but the fact that the Treasury Secretary is here, the fact that we were able to agree that the Ministry of Culture, after the agreement we made with the finances, got the instrument in hand, that we could do something, because the worst thing would be if one could just stand by in such a situation. And because of that, we managed to help a whole series of festivals, because the basis was that we wanted what was built here in culture, whether it was institutions or, say, events like festivals, so that it didn't just end in ruin and destruction. And because we agreed on this, the culture was given the means, even in the case of approving the first deficit, we were one of the few who immediately received money for, for example, key contribution organisations, so we could cover and we could say that we would stick to the area, which was still quite good until now. I am not saying that perfectly - this is also due to the fact that it was a completely new situation for us. In the past, the Ministry of Culture has dealt with the area of art rather than culture in a broad sense, i.e. And the culture business. It didn't even bother you about this area. This is brand new in the fact that we entered somewhere where the Ministry of Culture hadn't entered before. Here it was said, I think Mr Feri said it, that culture here is residual, neglected. Well, unfortunately, it will also sign on to the number of officials and those who are supposed to administer the challenges we are developing. I have to say it here because, you know, if culture was on the brink, it has consequences that still apply today. Then when you need to make new calls, manage, you have to pull people out of the credit unions, because you don't have anyone to do that. I'm just asking you to do one thing when you keep cutting into those officials and they say what bureaucracy is like, so let's just remember that in a situation like this, we're not able to do it without these people. The residual is also reflected in this. I don't want to re-criminate the past today, but I have to say that the fact that the culture was on the brink also shows that it is not extra equipped to cope with such a crisis situation. But that's what I'm saying, just to make us realize when we're still cutting into bureaucracy. So that's one thing. I'm glad that during that year we managed to hold a whole series of events, festivals, I'm not going to name it here. And in those institutions that we've held, in orchestras, in the theaters, there's also a huge number of musicians of art, people who make art and who are the foundation and value that we've talked about here, that's the basis that we can't waste. And I think that a really big part of it was thanks to this help and thanks to the tools that we got, in agreement with the finances, we managed to hold. And now, of course, we've been betting more on the fact that it's going to loosen up, that it's going to be more performing. And the situation, as you know, is not entirely favorable, so actually, we have more work to do. Now I've heard somewhere, somebody said that the Minister of Culture this year, when culture doesn't work, has nothing to do. That's very amusing. I'll admit it. That doesn't feel like it. [[With a smile.]] I didn't understand how he figured it out, because in a situation like this crisis, that means, of course, that's, I'm sorry, much more than normal traffic, when there isn't such a situation. And as for the particular problems that have been raised here. There was talk of a certain segment of people, whether they were musicians, dancers, singers, actors who stayed outside the areas that we covered by covering their fees, that they were in employment with some fellowship organizations. And here we talked about the fact that the third bonus didn't pay off, so they actually stayed plonk. There's one thing I want to point out here. Speaking of the third bonus, of course, the Ministry of Culture didn't administer it. That was more general. It wasn't just culture, it was general. And here I'm just going to argue that it's the way it was said that we have a law here that we can use. Because I'm afraid the moment we limit it to just one segment, that means a change in the law. So that's why I don't think we have a tool at our disposal here that just needs to be used. As I understand it, and as I consulted with the lawyers, it would have to be a change of law, and it's not that simple. [[12.30 hours]] On the other hand, I'm not here to tell you how I can't, because we're already in business on this. We even had a meeting with the Minister of Finance this week, where we touched on this, and we even made an agreement that we would be dealing with how to use what we already have today, and that's the COVID - Culture program, which, although there are resources, and I can't tell you exactly how much of the 900 million we're going to spend because it's always coming at the last minute, but we know that we're going to have some pretty decent resources. And here's what we're working with now, and actually with the Treasury at this point, we're trying to agree on the terms under which the hundreds of millions that I think are going to be there could be drawn both by the companies, these are the music clubs, everything and others that haven't actually gotten into it. So what we're ordering, these specific conditions, how they could enter this program on the basis of the challenge that we're going to announce. In the case of companies, it would once again be what kind of invoices, the documents that would prove their occupation in the field of culture, would have to be presented to give them, say, a form of assistance for the next period. So it would both be these companies. And then the other group would be the very self-employed. On the basis of, for example, an honest declaration of a decline in income from the main gainful activity, we would like more than 50 per cent. That's exactly what we're arguing with the Ministry of Finance, what it would be like to find a way to cover the few thousand artists under the COVID - Culture program; I'm guessing, if I had to guess, ten thousand of those very musicians, singers, actors that we could cover. And here, when I'm calculating it for some help - I'm going to say a number here, I hope the secretary doesn't yell what I say, maybe 30, 40 grand if we paid off, I wouldn't want to get ahead of myself here. [[with a smile]] I'm just trying to make it transparent. That's what we're just trying to agree on, what we're going to agree to fit into the money that we have, and that's what this segment, which we're actually talking about today, we're going to try to cover. We want to announce two challenges as soon as possible. One will be for non-profit organizations, i.e. for those who are not profitable, there is also a means that we are able and ready to use for this. And the other one is just this. That's the COVID - Culture we're doing with the Ministry of Industry and where we're going to argue with finance - and we're already arguing, actually, it's already on. We're already arguing about how we're going to build this so we can cover this group here and the segment that's falling through because it's not really part of any fellowship organizations. I'll describe it to you exactly, just to be clear. They are those artists and authors in the field of culture who are not at the main employment ratio of a graduate organization or another employer, such as pedagogically. And it will be able to apply both to the net self-employed person or to the self-employed person in connection with a secondary employment relationship, such as the copyright agreement, and their activity was stopped by the epidemic and consequently they had to cancel whether foreign or domestic tour. That means, what has been said here, if the situation develops especially now so that unfortunately it doesn't develop the way we imagined it would, the more I think this program deserves to be launched so that we can... They can't do what their livelihood is to try to compensate them. That's the tool we have in hand that we're working with, and where we've actually gotten somewhere. And I repeat, we want to launch these two challenges now. I think that during October I can guarantee that they will be published. That's probably what's being raised here today as the main theme. And if this is what the performers are up to, I can promise you for myself that I will do everything we can to deliver this help. With the fact that I can't present a number of things here, please. Here were such motions for resolutions to put forward, for example, a timetable for relaxation for 2020/2021. I'm sorry, but these are things that no one is able to present or deliver to you today. I simply acknowledge and acknowledge that the segment that you are talking about has remained and that there are a number of people I think are really important to culture and to the survival of culture, and that it is what I feel as a debt that I would like to repay. And otherwise, basically, I share a number of thoughts that have been made here, and I will not repeat them just because of a lack of time. And most importantly, so that we can discuss this and close the point today, which is why I'm going to end my performance. I hope it was understandable and we will need to vote if necessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u16	Thank you. And now I'm looking to see if I have any more applications for the general debate. I do not see another application for a general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I ask whether there is an interest in the final words after the general debate. prosit, Mr Miroslav Kalousek for the plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u17	As a translator's representative, I want to thank you for the discussion that was most factual and constructive. Just allow me to respond to the Minister's words, who doubted the legislative purity of the extension of the third period. I have a legal analysis at my disposal that says that according to the law it is possible because it is § 5 para. 3 which says that the government may lay down its regulation in the event that emergency measures have been restricted. [[crisis measures]] And in its regulation, it can specify who it is for. It doesn't say anywhere that it has to be for everyone. So I'm convinced we can use this instrument. We can't use it more than 31. 8. Yes, until 31. 8. because the law limits it from 9 June to 31 June. 8. But the government, by its regulation, can clearly define who it is for. I have this legal analysis. I don't want to have a legal dispute here right now, in case the government happens to... It's just that we're asking the government to use this instrument anyway. And if the government finds it necessary for a legislative change, then, of course, in a state of legislative emergency, we will all be happy to approve it in two minutes. So I don't see the problem either. [[12.40 hours]] And the Minister says that they would be covered by the revised Culture programme, which we also ask that the programme be adapted. But the challenges will be announced in October. That means if it goes extremely well, they'll get the money in November. And they've been without income since June 9th. That means the compensation bonus is the chance to get the pětadvacítka very quickly. And if, then in November, in December, they will apply for the COVID - Culture programme, so will the support. I ask you here to support this proposal. After all, we cannot order the government to do so, we can only ask her to do so, the government will certainly consider it. But our resolution would have a very supportive character. That is all I have to say in conclusion, and I am entering into a detailed debate with the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u18	Well, you may as well stay on the microphone, Mr. Provost, because we will proceed to the debate in detail, which you have signed up for. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u19	Yes. And I am just repeating that the motion for my resolution is three points where we ask the government to set a third time period under Act No. 159/2000 Coll., Act No. 159/2020 Coll., on a compensatory bonus, from 9 June to 31 August. Secondly, it asks the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Industry and Trade to adjust the conditions for drawing from the COVID - Culture programme in order to take into account the specifics of the operation of cultural institutions. Thirdly, he asks the Minister of Culture to prepare quick instruments of support for private subjects in a live culture in the event of a future necessary restriction on cultural production - a case none of us want, but we know that it can happen, and we should be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u20	Mr Miloslav Rozner is now reporting for a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u21	Well, hello again. I would just like to appeal that I would like to sign up for our resolutions, which have been read in a detailed debate and have been distributed to you... [[President: In the general debate.]] ... in the general debate and was handed out to you on tables.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u22	Let me now see if anyone else has a detailed debate. We don't see anyone else. Attention, please, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Jiránek, then. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u23	Thank you. I'm just a quick counterproposal for what you've got going on. So to point 8, I have a counterproposal that there would be only the first two lines, which means: "The Czech Republic's PPS calls on the Czech Government to submit a framework timetable for releasing the limits of the number of persons who may be present at cultural events in 2021." My point is that the specs aren't in those other two lines, because I think that the schedule can be done according to more different specifications than those three. And if the government tries to do that, I think it's gonna open more hands.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u24	So I assume the plaintiff has made a note of that. I am now going to conclude a detailed debate and proceed to the vote on the proposals tabled. I'm just gonna put in a moment here so we can call the MPs to the O.R. so it doesn't surprise anyone here that we're gonna vote. Yes, checkout request. So I'm gonna check you out again and sign up with your voting cards again. So I will ask the plaintiff, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, to take us through the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u25	Thank you. I am convinced that we will be able to make it within 13 hours, yet I would like to announce the agreement of the members of the MPs that we are not limited by the 13th hour that we will arrive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u26	Then I'll tell the deal to make it work. [[Member Kalousek: Excuse me, Mr President.]] But thank you for being so proactive, proactive. [[Laughs in the hall.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u27	Thank you, Mr President. That is, if my colleagues do not object, we would start with the resolutions that I made as the petitioner. We will vote on individual points. The first point is: "He asks the government to set up a third time period between June 9 and August 31 for a living culture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u28	So we all know what we're voting on. Minister of Culture's opinion, let's ask, please. [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 104, 75 Members registered, for 35, against none. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u29	"Asks the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Industry and Trade to adjust the conditions for drawing from the COVID - Culture programme in order to take into account the specifics of the operation of cultural institutions."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u30	So, Mr. Secretary? I didn't hear you. [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 105, 77 Members signed up for 75, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u31	"Asks the Minister of Culture to prepare rapid instruments of support for private subjects in a live culture in the event of a future necessary restriction on cultural production."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u32	Mr. Secretary? [[I agree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 106, 77 Members registered, for 77, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u33	Now we have eight motions for a resolution by Mr Rozner, and at that eighth we will vote first on the amendment to the proposal that was tabled. So item number 1 calls on the government to extend the compensatory bonus until 31. 12. 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u34	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 107, 77 Members registered, for 35, against none. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u35	Ensure the remission of payments of advances on corporate tax resulting from the last tax return lodged.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u36	Mr. Secretary? [[I can't control that. Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 108, 77 Members registered, for 23, against none. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u37	Prepare a subsidy program COVID - Culture 2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u38	The Minister's position? [[Agreed, we're prepping it.]] With the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u39	I dare not say an opinion. I agree, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u40	No, it's okay, it's just that he's a plaintiff. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 109, 77 Members registered, for 69, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u41	Include two billion in the state budget to support private entities operating in live culture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u42	Mr. Secretary? [[I disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 110, 77 Members signed in, for 15, against 24. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u43	To submit an amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, which will allow entities to grant tax only on the date of granting of taxable transactions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u44	Mr. Secretary? [[I don't have anything either. Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 111. Registered 77 Members, for 32, versus 13. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u45	Submit to 30. 9. 2020 amendment to the Act, which regulates all the time periods contained in Law 247, which are not up-to-date or satisfactory as a result of ongoing pandemic measures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u46	Excuse me, Minister? [[I don't agree, I can't.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 112. 77 Members logged in. For 25, against 25. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u47	Submit a set of measures that will include a guarantee in the form of insurance, guarantee or other form of government guarantee for sold tickets, which will then have cancelled performances.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u48	Excuse me, Minister? [[- No, I can't agree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 113. 77 Members logged in. For 18, against 30. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u49	Submit a framework timetable for the relaxation of the limit on the number of persons who may be present at cultural events in 2021. - That's the counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u50	So that is the counterproposal of Mr Jiránek against the original proposal of Mr Rozner. So, Mr. Secretary? [[I'm not capable, I can't.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 114. Seventy-seven Members registered, for 34, versus 17. The motion was denied. And now, Mr Rozner's original proposal, if I understand correctly. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u51	The whole point is that "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to submit a framework schedule for relaxation in 2021 following the evolution of the curve of the number of people infected with Coronavirus and the utilization of hospital bed capacity in relation to COVID-19 disease.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u52	Mr. Secretary? [[I can't do that either. I can't support it.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 115. 76 Members registered, for 25, against 33. The motion was denied. So, Mr. plaintiff, that's it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u53	That's how we ran out of everything. Thank you so much for your cooperation. Only my colleagues, if anyone has told you that the government's regulation does not do so, the compensatory bonus, I recommend that you read Section 5, which states in the last paragraph that the government, by its regulation, can set the third time period for 9 June to 31 August 2020. I admit I'm very sorry we turned down this quick help. But, of course, it's the will of the House, even though the government might still consider doing so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u54	The Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek has now signed up with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u55	Thank you. I didn't understand this point as some sort of confrontational in the House. I just want to conclude by saying that the debate on the compensation bonus goes far beyond the competence of the Ministry of Culture. I am sticking to what I can, and I have made it clear here that we have the resources under the COVID - Culture programme, and I have said that we are working here to help the segment that we have discussed here today. And I also supported this in the vote, and I am glad that the House has made it clear that this is what it wants. Thank you for the support, I need it. And I believe we can make a deal with the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-003-488.u56	Thank you. We will now proceed to discuss the next item on the agenda. This is about
