ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-004-013.u1	13. Proposal for a Law on certain measures to mitigate the effects of SARS CoV-2 on tenants of premises serving business /house printing 816/3/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned this bill with amendments. We received his resolution as House Press 816/4. We have information on the amendments in the mail. I welcome Senator Tomáš Golán again and I ask that Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček speak for the plaintiff for the Senate resolution on the amendments tabled. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-004-013.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 8 April we approved, in the context of a legislative emergency, several amendments to the Government's proposal for a law on certain measures to mitigate the effects of the epidemic, which concerned tenants of premises for business. He was discussed at a meeting on 17. 4. It should be said that this proposal follows quite significantly the approach to the support of tenants in Germany. In Germany, it's a proposal, or a scheme that works within three plus three months, we designed it for three months. In principle, it is not about how it is sometimes said that in a fundamental way we enter into a relationship between the landlord and the tenant. To a certain extent, we are getting the relationship that today is and which is being discussed at the level of the tenant and the landlord into some sort of legislative figure. Why? Because those tenants who can't run their premises today, we're just suggesting that for the necessary time, and the necessary time is for three months or 30 months, respectively. Six, to be exact, they can't be fired at this time. The way he sets his relationship with the landlord is entirely up to them. We're still giving a deadline to settle the accumulated debt, and we're giving it to 31. 12. 2020. This is what we have finally reached a compromise agreement within the Chamber of Deputies. We believe that this is the right step to allow tenants to take a breath, to negotiate different conditions. At the same time, it must be said that within the government, such a significant thing, I think, we are preparing such a regime that we will want to compensate to some extent the rent to the tenants, to those who have been cut off from operation, and we will now agree on the scheme in which we will do so. There is, for example, a Slovak example, an Estonian example where they participate in reducing the rent of both the state and the landlord in various proportions. At this point, we are discussing, for example, the option of a third per state, a third per landlord, and then a third per tenant. However, we will negotiate this in the following days, perhaps even weeks, because it concerns a large number of tenants, and therefore we also need to make it 30. 6. did not do anything extraordinary between the tenant and the landlord, so that he could not get a statement. In its resolution, the Senate proposes that the Czech Republic provide a state guarantee to secure 80 per cent of all debts to entrepreneurs, which will not be repaid at that time of protection until 31. 12th, and at the same time proposes an amendment to the Compensation Bonus Act in the context of crisis measures, in particular an extension of the period for drawing the compensatory bonus by two months to 30. 6. in order to be able to apply for this bonus also to the CFI, which for the purposes of the Health Insurance Act is considered to be an employee. And the last minor change, however, is a technical, legislatively technical nature, which concerns the preamble of the law, but which can be overcome by interpretation. I therefore object to the proposed amendment by the Senate. Among other things, because the compensation bonus is dealt with in a completely different regime, in a completely different law, and a number of the things that were required there have been dealt with in the meantime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-004-013.u3	Thank you and please Senator Tomáš Golán to take the floor. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-004-013.u4	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, today I will speak to you for the third and last time. I'd like to say that the law we're discussing here is similar to that of the previous law. It is systemically built in such a way that it actually puts a group of people against a second group of people. However, I do think one thing. There was a debate in the media about the Senate's proposed an 80% guarantee from the state for unpaid rent. Let me explain what led us to this. The economic situation of entrepreneurs is partly different from the economic situation of apartment tenants. The rents are much higher. They're often hundreds of thousands. And imagine a situation where a bunch of unpaid invoices and a three-month rent in hundreds of millions accumulate in that businessman. In hundreds of millions. Those aren't thousands like apartment rentals. In hundreds of millions. The entrepreneur will see that his business will be restored and that he will finally start to realise revenue. And he starts paying invoices to his suppliers for goods, for services, and he's supposed to pay by 31. Twelve hundred thousand crowns for deferred rent. Of course, we don't blame anyone for having to do this, but he had to do it under government measures. And the situation is very difficult for him. What if the businessman doesn't pay because he goes bankrupt? We're gonna put the landlord in great need. What if the businessman has to pay the rent so he doesn't lose his non-residential space because he has to do business somewhere? So we get to the secondary insolvency of another supplier. I haven't heard a word about that here today. But the biggest scarecrow hanging over us is secondary insolvency. If we spin a spiral of secondary insolvency, we'll pull into the black hole even those that didn't restrict the measures in any way. And that's different from the housing lease bill. We know for ourselves that secondary insolvency in the case of the previous crisis has spread within two to three years. That is why I have spoken here under the budgetary responsibility law that it is necessary to pour liquidity into the economy through banks in order to prevent this secondary insolvency. But by moving the rents, of course, we're just patching up and dealing with this situation temporarily. But this isn't a system solution. Because then the measures will pass and the time will come 31. 12. 2020 which is the end of the protection period, and the businessman will have to make a decision. Like I said, he's either gonna fail and he's not gonna pay, then he's gonna come in or he's gonna pay, but he's gonna push out more. And that secondary insolvency spiral is totally relentless. It hits the whole economy, hits local budgets, ammunition, hits everyone. And we certainly don't want that here. So the bill of guarantee wasn't led by businessmen agreeing to rob the state. Those entrepreneurs are in a situation you have no idea about. They don't want to cheat. And if anyone cheats, it's people who will cheat everyone, but entrepreneurs aren't all cheaters. These are the people who dragged the economy here, and these are the people who created these huge revenues that flowed into the state budget. That gave us economic growth. We can't automatically treat these people as cheaters. No one can be serious. So in this way, I want to justify why the Senate has proceeded to guarantee the state for 80 percent of the rents that may not be paid. The second thing is a compensatory bonus. The government itself has prepared a plan to unwind the measures, and the plan is being drawn to us until June of this year. But we all know that the compensation bonus is only until the end of April. What about the other jobs, the other crafts, the other establishments that are gonna open up to 5. Six? How are we going to compensate them? We can't wait for someone to swing around and say, "Yeah, we'll figure it out later." These people need hope. I was talking about it yesterday. They need a light at the end of the tunnel, they need someone to send them the message. And you're exactly the ones who can do it. Because the compensation bonus at the level it's scheduled will cost a maximum of 12 billion. But he won't be that high, because everyone can't reach it. It will only apply to those people who will be affected by these measures. The compensation bonus is designed to give 900 (?) to those who will be closed in May. CZK per day, those who in June (?), 700 crowns a day and those of June (?), 900 crowns a day. It is therefore increasing because, of course, the situation with the prolonged uncertainty is draining people more and more financially. Because the compensation bonus is just some amount, but the costs are running. So, as I say, 700 kroner a day in May, 900 kroner a day in June. Another part of my amendment is intended to eliminate inequality in the case of small jobs. I've been getting a lot of letters about why I invented $10,000. Because I just took $10,000 under the job agreement that it was some small job. Anyone who has a major activity is a hairdresser who has a closed salon and also goes to assist administratively in the gynecological ambulance for CZK 5,000 a month, does not reach any compensation bonus. Really, you hear well, for no compensation bonus. That means she's gonna lose $25,000 over $5,000. Unfortunately, you adopted such a law thanks to Mr Onderka's amendment. That's not all. There are far worse situations. The lady takes care of her underage grandchildren because her parents died in a car accident and she's a foster kid. And those foster parents, because that foster care gives them an obligation to participate in sickness insurance, unfortunately they will not reach this compensation bonus as well. This means that every foster child who works as a foster child does not get a crown again. [[12.50 hours]] Others are volunteers in the care service. These activities are very small rewards, and if they are also a self-employed person and they pay rents for closed establishments, they will not be able to achieve a compensatory bonus again. This situation here is absolutely trivial. We must realise that the state is all citizens. And we can't just forget about one part, and because we didn't do it, so say good, so the Senate fixes it, but we disagree. After all, this state is made up of every citizen, and every citizen has the right to have rights like the others. I therefore ask you to accept these amendments because they are only for people, they are not for politicians, and they will be the good news that we have not just sat here and that we have not forgotten these people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-004-013.u5	Thank you, Senator. The rapporteur for the guarantee committee was Mr Petr Dolínek. Mr rapporteur, are you interested in commenting on the Senate's amendments? [[I don't.]] You don't. I'm opening the debate. President Zbyněk Stanjura is the first party to the debate with priority rights. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-004-013.u6	Thank you for the floor. I'll start positive first. I would like to appreciate the words of the Minister who said that at this point they are considering and calculating the model when three parties will share the rents - the owner, the tenant and the state. We inspired the government about a month ago to look at other countries where the model has been operating for weeks. And now it's not really important if it's a third, a third and a third. It seems reasonable to me, but even if it's a little different, I think it's a sensible idea that really helps. It really helps. Everyone loses a little bit, nobody's a winner, but nobody's a loser. And for that, I would like to thank you, and if that's the case in the next few days, I think that, at least from the civil democrats, the commendation will sound public, not just today on the microphone. Now for the critical part of the show. The bill he left the House for the Senate didn't really help anyone. That is the difference between what the Minister spoke about and what they are up to and what the Chamber of Deputies approved by the votes of government Members. There was no match here. For many of the laws we adopted in a legislative emergency, there was a strong consensus, here it was a divided coalition versus opposition. Why do I say it didn't help anyone? Because the problem of the government and the government majority - and it is the responsibility of the Chamber of Deputies and the government, the government has put it forward and we, as Members, voted on it - actually moved the problem. She moved from tenants to owners, and that's not fair, that's not solving the problem. I'm just gonna pick one group against the other. Moreover, in this case, they are business entities. It's not like the previous law. And I would sign everything the senator said. If we do not think and vote only politically, but factually, I think that this debate will be three minutes, we will approve the Senate version, we will wish the Minister the model he talks about as soon as possible, and in a few months we can evaluate how much the model helped and how much it cost and how many tenants survived and how many landlords survived. I'm afraid it won't be, and it's a terrible shame. On top of everything the senator said about the million-dollar rents and all that, let's just remember that there's VAT that the owner just has to take away, even though no one's gonna pay him, and that's a lot of money. And it's not that he's not producing anything because there's a crisis. It's just that the lease pays, money doesn't come, and money doesn't actually come, including VAT. That's the difference between the previous law where we don't talk about VAT for rent for apartments. So I really think, in agreement with Mr. Senator, that after that month or five weeks, when we evaluate the state of the economy, the government measures and the measures of the House and the Senate, I think the biggest threat is the secondary insolvency that can really cause problems for healthy companies that have not been affected by government measures. And now I'm not criticizing them, if we understand each other, I'm just saying. And that would be a terrible shame. We have presented as citizens' democrats a plan that could solve this, and that is actually the flat-rate deferral of VAT payments for quarterly payers for the first and second quarters and for monthly payers for March to June. That means, in the first half of the year without actually January and February. When we look at tax revenues in the first three months, as the Ministry of Finance published them, in fact, in the first three months there was no de facto decline in tax revenues. They were smaller than forecasted, but they were slightly larger than those that were last year. That means the drop won't happen until the next few months. That's obvious. And again, it's not the government's fault, it's an obvious fact. This would be a solution that would help reduce the threat of secondary insolvency. I don't know if the government will approach him or not. We will try to propose this on some of the other points and get support for this proposal. The second thing that's very positive about the Senate return, which actually helps, unlike what's left the House, is an extension of the compensation bonus. That's a terrible conundrum you invented - a compensatory bonus. I'd say it's an extraordinary dose. It's 500 crowns a day that the majority proposed and approved. We voted for it, too, because 500 crowns, of course, are better than zero. Even then we proposed 700 crowns for March to April, respectively for the period from 12 March to 30 April. The proposal is not excessive, and, as the senator said, as the government releases the measures, the number of those who achieve the bonus is quite logically reduced. So the costs won't be dramatic. And it looks like it's 25,000 pure, and it gets that way, but it's 15,000 a month. The proposal, which the Senate calls May, is actually 21,000. So let's say for ourselves - is this some kind of dizzying amount, will those who have closed establishments get rich on it? Of course not. And, of course, even though they have closed facilities, they're running out of expenses. It's not just the rents, but they have mobile operators and other services that they just order. It's not that they don't just have income and at the same time have no costs. So the proposal is very reasonable, and if we approve, which we will vote in favour of the Senate version, we do not actually have to discuss point four today, and we will shorten the time. And it is expected that the Senate, if it goes through 500 crowns again, will return to its idea. Why would he do it any other way? We're not under any time pressure because by the end of April, it's covered, and we're just stalling. And those tradesmen who are gradually getting ready to re-open in any of those waves - one wave behind us, the other wave coming next Monday, then we have three more waves, we're going to debate that at another point today at the end of today's program - should be sure of that today. And they could also plan better and have resources to reopen a store or establishment. That's not an easy thing either. And it's not like when you open it on the first day that the first day, the first week, the first month you go back to the sales that were before. I'm afraid that's not gonna happen. We all wish it, I don't think any of us would want it. But, unfortunately, reality will be different, and worse. Maybe the hairdressers, as they said, that we men would all run in, maybe that's where it's gonna be different in the first few days. But in many sectors, it's just going to be difficult, the return, the return of sales to that level. So the proposals are all positive, they bring real help, and unlike what has gone from the House to the Senate, they do not carry the problem from one group of entrepreneurs to another group of entrepreneurs. And it's already been mentioned by one of the previous speakers at the last point. So look at point six today, which we have, which we will support as opposition, I say straight away. It's about guarantees. And why is it all of a sudden -- if I put it that way, if I take a loan to pay the rent, I'll have that guarantee under point six. So at one point, in one law, it is possible, probably because it is brought by the government, and one cannot, probably because it is brought by the Senate, which has a majority other than the Chamber of Deputies, as usual in Czech politics. It's not unusual for those chambers to have a different political majority. We experienced the absolute majority of ODS in the Senate, then we experienced the absolute majority of Social Democrats in the Senate, and the governments were politically composed. It's nothing unusual. [[13.00 hours]] We as citizens' democrats will vote in favour of the Senate version. And I really ask you, Members of the government, to consider carefully the arguments that the senator has made here very well. And notice, in those performances, both Mr. Senator and mine, I don't think there was any extreme criticism of the government's actions. On the contrary, if the Minister enforces the program, it's almost useless. Then let's just say we don't approve of anything so the government can pull it off. And I understand that. It seems to me before this bill in the House version is much better than the model the Minister spoke of. Who really helps is just. So let us not be ashamed to admit that the law is useless, and let us not vote any version - after a political agreement, not by a combat vote. Then I understand, I don't mind at all. And I say, I appreciate this step. We have offered this inspiration to the government and I am glad that the government has inspired, and it doesn't matter if it takes Slovak, Estonian, Swedish or Danish parameters. It's a tried model, and it could work. That's also an option. I don't know if the Minister will respond to that. We wouldn't mind at all. Before there's a political battle for your own truth, about the compensation bonus, there's where we can get our changelings, like we're ready to load them. I will confess to the senator, he is working with my colleague Tomáš Hajdušek, that I have the same amendment prepared if the Senate version had not passed, in the same version, to vote on him in point 4 when the third reading of point 4 of our meeting is made. I'm sure that thought won't fit in. But I will repeat again, and I will end up positive, the proposal that the Minister spoke of at the beginning of his speech is much better than the law. Much better than the law that left the House for the Senate. Much better at solving the rental of non-residential premises. Of course, the part that concerns the compensation bonus cannot be dealt with by the Minister's decision, but by the programme, but we can resolve that, if necessary, in point 4. Because if we look at the situation and imagine that they will both be paying, that is, this law will apply and at the same time the programme that the Minister spoke of will be launched, it is difficult to predict with certainty the behaviour of those subjects, but I would say that the vast majority will logically use the program. So I think both groups, both owners of non-residential premises and tenants of non-residential premises, are aware of the problems they have and are facing in the coming months. And this is really an offer, I'd say generous help from the state and direct aid, not the transfer from one to the other. Thank you. If the Minister insists on voting, we will, of course, support the Senate version, we cannot vote for the House version, we have not voted for the first time in the Chamber of Deputies because it does not solve the problem, it only transfers from one group of entrepreneurs to another. And I don't know why I, as a legislator, when the problem has arisen here and no one can help me make my decision: not you, your problems will be solved by transferring the problem to another group of entrepreneurs. That's not fair. Not to the first, not to the second group.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-004-013.u7	Mrs Helena Langšádlová apologizes for today's meeting from 12.20 to 13 hours for work reasons. At this point, I'm stating that the Organizing Committee will meet at 1:05 p.m. I'm ending the morning meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We'll continue with this point at 14.30 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-004-013.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll read the apology first. So, Mr Jan Birke apologizes for today's meeting from 14.30 to the end of the day for business reasons. And now we will continue to discuss the draft law on some measures to mitigate the effects of SARS-CoV-2 on tenants of business premises... [[Mr Běhounek is speaking to the President off the microphone.]] Yes. Mr. Běhounek cancels his afternoon apology... to the tenants of business premises, House press 816/3, returned to the Senate. I ask that the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček take the position at the rapporteur's table, and Senator Tomáš Goláň, who I welcome again. I would remind you that the Senate has returned the bill with amendments. We received his resolution as House Press 816/4. We will therefore continue the interrupted debate. Mr Vojtěch Munzar is given the floor and Mr Leo Luzar will be prepared. All right, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-004-013.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, hello, Minister, Your Honor. I have already spoken to this press at the initial meeting, where I have expressed our great reservations about the original government proposal, virtually. a proposal that came out of the Chamber of Deputies. I very much appreciate the fact that the Senate has actually come up with the equivalent of the proposal that I presented here in the initial reading, and that is a state guarantee. I would like to thank Senator Goláň for making a very clever and clean statement of reservations that are identical to ours. We understand the effort to help those people and businesses who have a closed establishment have low or no income. And we here have proposed, proposed, and will also be proposing a lot of measures today that should help the tenants directly. But this proposal, which is presented here, virtually. The Senate is trying to remedy this, but which is presented here, or has been put forward by the government, already has the error itself in principle, because it cannot be agreed with the principle of transferring the risk of insolvency, and the risk of insolvency here was discussed by the Senator, it cannot be agreed with the principle of transferring the risk of insolvency from tenants to landlords, and without compensation, as the originally approved version envisaged. These comments are de facto similar to the one in the previous press that concerned apartments. However, there is an additional risk in the business environment. Because the business environment is more sensitive to the accumulation of impregnable claims, because a lot of things can happen during that withdrawal period. And especially in the area of business real estate, it may be easy that over time there will be a failure, an insolvency, even a controlled failure of a tenant. Such a company can then become an empty box and liabilities, which will then be on the side of this company, accumulate and create an impregnable claim for the landlord. And by doing so, the state will contribute, by its proposal for this cumulation, by its actions, by this draft law to a clear cumulation. Therefore, the state guarantee makes sense as a minimum protection of the landlord so that he can at least have the basic assurance that the payment will not be postponed at the same time as the creation of an impregnable debt. We've already discussed here that we're facing the question of how this law would succeed in a constitutionality test. Because it is a restriction of rights in the public interest, but another of the constitutional conditions is not met and this is a substitute for that restriction. And I am actually convinced that we are on the verge of constitutionality. When the minister was talking about some kind of instrument, the government's plan to decompose the risk, which would, of course, be much better, but we don't have it on the table today, it's just considerations, we have this bill here today. And I believe that this proposal is not entirely fair to the tenants themselves, because, like apartments, they are at risk of a debt trap, because the right of the landlord to, for example, contractual sanctions or accessories will not disappear by delaying the rent. The presentation, which is related to this proposal, easily leads to the mistaken impression of the tenants. I think that a lot of entrepreneurs today live in the misconception that this is about forgiveness of rent payments, but that's not true, it's just a push. Therefore, the tenant may be caught in a debt trap where he will not have enough money to pay the rent due at the end of that period. That is why this option can also become such a bear service for the tenant, when it will be like the balls that the tenants will be rolling in front of them, and it will be constantly increasing and increasing in that way. As Senator Goláň rightly said here, we should want those tenants, business entities to take a quick breath in business. And that's not gonna happen if they're gonna be rolling balls in front of each other of the kind of debt, the kind of liabilities they're gonna have to pay. We need them to have enough financial resources to restore their business as quickly as possible, to start consuming, to start investing, not paying accumulated debts. And from these views, which I'm telling you, I take the state guarantee as the minimum necessary adjustment and the minimum necessary for both the tenants and the landlords. Finally, I would point out that people do not just have to rely on the law and that today many reasonable landlords and reasonable tenants agree with each other. Many landlords forgive or reduce rents because they know their tenants are in a bad financial situation. On the other hand, the landlord's costs of holding those properties will not go away, even the obligation to pay VAT on unrealised rent income. And these costs must be paid from the rent income that is now being postponed. That is why we imagine and imagined and here we are during the first reading, or the previous reading we proposed direct support to the tenants, unfortunately it failed, so at least we take the state guarantee as a minimum, minimum way of fixing this situation and this original proposal at least a little bit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-004-013.u10	There. I will now ask for Mr Leo Luzar's speech, the last one registered so far. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-004-013.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief and factual and not to exceed a five-minute period. In the previous material we talked about the view of the situation - forgive or help tenants in rental premises. Now we have an adequate question about rents and tenants in business premises. I acknowledge the government's efforts to respond to the situation and address it somehow. What could the government have done? My previous speaker here outlined certain options and options. But the government could also say, "Dear people, if you go into business, you have a very high percentage of the possibility of infection, and this disease can end with fatal consequences, act accordingly. And she could've let those traders operate quite freely. The question is, how would they turn out? At that moment, a colleague here would go to the microphone and yell, "You scared our customers!" You have to! The government took responsibility for this and dealt with the situation. [[14.40 hours]] And again, we're just saying that there's going to be a problem here that I think will be minimal in the classic relationship between the tenant and the landlord, and it's going to be a minority that wants some other help here compared to the current situation. Let me give you an example, and that's why I got off. I got information from my hometown. I'm not going to name the companies, but I'm going to say that the biggest provider, the business center, has forgiven the rents to its tenants. The latest shopping mall refused. And this middle mall is still negotiating with its tenants, to which the group will be added, if it refuses to allow a discount on the rent or provides it. That's the state that's going on. I intercepted information on TV from the Trade Union, which also talked about that yes, we manage to negotiate with large landlords of business areas and space and allow our tenants discounts in rents or full forgiveness. I appreciate that, because, of course, everyone is affected in some form, and nowadays, the surplus of shopping space - I stress the surplus of shopping space - each landlord appreciates his tenant being there, and does not wait for the opportunity to simply dispose of it. Therefore, I would leave it to the level of possible theoretical considerations, what if, to talk about what might happen if, but rather, I would leave it to the government in the proposal that is here, to approve it in the spirit in which it is, and only hoped that there would be no need for such restrictions very quickly. I think we all wish it wasn't the Minister of Industry and Trade, who is happy to be able to block industry and trade and that he likes it. On the contrary, I think that he is very unhappy and that he would like everyone to be able to work and do business normally. So let's try to make this possible, let's speed it up and keep our fingers crossed so that the virus gets in the tight spot very quickly and we can function normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-004-013.u12	I will look around the hall to see if anyone is interested in speaking in the debate. I don't see anybody interested in a performance anymore. If no one else is reporting, I am done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. The Minister is interested. Is the senator interested, too? You're interested, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-004-013.u13	Thank you, everyone. Just for a little while. Why not the Senate proposal? He doesn't solve the tenant situation at all. Yes, our proposal is not brilliant in that and we are not happy that we are interfering with this relationship, of course, but to some extent legalizes what is happening here today anyway. And just because the Senate gave it back to us, it cost at least troops, but rather dozens of tenants their position, that they got an uncompromising statement because they didn't pay. That's what we need to talk about. And what does the Senate proposal solve? It solves the tenant, you don't pay, well, the state goes in, you go bankrupt, and the landlord gets 80 percent. So the landlord's fine. But we want to help those tenants, and we are not helping them with this Senate proposal. The guarantee doesn't solve the problem of the tenant who's in the most difficult situation today. This will deal with him when the government resolution that will allow him to spread between the landlords, the tenant and the state of the risk that is there, in the form of a direct contribution. Otherwise, the Senate proposal really doesn't solve anything. That there may be a risk of insolvency? You're right, but that's what's happening in the economy in itself. And if we admit that we're going to guarantee to one group today that they won't pay their creditors, then logically anyone else will come along and say please, there's a coronavirus, we have an isolated economy here, guarantee it to me too, guarantee it to me too. Why should it be done only to this one group? That doesn't make any sense. As far as VAT is concerned, yes, it can get in trouble with VAT, but here it is clearly stated, and it already works that there is no penalty for late VAT, and if anyone comes up with the suggestion that they want to postpone VAT, it is a far more elegant solution than to change the entire law today. So this measure, by 30. 6. The only thing that makes it possible is that he doesn't get a statement, basically protects the smallest tenants, because the big guys already set it up. Those long ago, with their bargaining power with the owners of the large centers have negotiated conditions that may be better than the ones we offer. We're trying to cover the risk of the smallest for at least a while, in the meantime, to come up with the solution we've proposed. We think it's an effective solution. And what you're proposing won't help the tenants at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-004-013.u14	Now the final word, Senator Tomáš Goláň. Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-004-013.u15	Thank you for the floor. I'll respond to the situation, why we don't give guarantees to others. Of course, we don't guarantee others because we don't law them to suffer that someone doesn't pay them. If we are required by law to bear no payment, why not give them a guarantee? If we were to do this to other groups, I'm sure it would be appropriate to consider the guarantee. There have been several "let's go quickly" sentences. There's been a discussion here that you're going to be dealing with another law today, like a compensation bonus. But it's not fast, it's all too late, because before it gets to the Senate, before the president signs it, it's another delay. Let's go quickly, approve of the proposal as it came from the Senate, and we'll help everyone. I noticed a lot of government MPs were nodding at some of my arguments, so let's help these people. We don't play politics here. This is no time for false heroism. Let's and let's move fast and let's give these people some hope so they can finally have something they can count on for the future. Therefore, I beg you, support the Senate proposal. Support the Senate proposal and possibly make further changes in the future, but let's see what we have here. Thank you for your attention. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-004-013.u16	You don't have to say goodbye to us yet. We shall now proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm gonna sing. Yes, I'm interested in checking you out here, so I'm going to unsubscribe you all. Log in again with your voting cards. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft law on certain measures to mitigate the effects of SARS-CoV-2 Coronavirus on tenants of premises for business, according to House press 816/3, as approved by the Senate, according to House press 816/4'. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 59, 169 Members signed up, for 73, against 4. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the draft law on certain measures to mitigate the effects of SARS-CoV-2 on tenants of business premises, as amended by the Senate, according to the House press 816/3. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 60, 173 Members registered, for 129, against 25. I state that we have adopted the bill. That concludes the discussion of this press. Thank you, Mr. Senator. [[14.50 hours]] We will now proceed to the discussion of the next press. This is a point number
