ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill on reduction of social security premiums and contribution to the employer's national employment policy as taxpayers in connection with emergency measures in the 2020 epidemic and amending certain laws /German press 860/ - shortened negotiations Before discussing the draft law, we would, in accordance with § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. I am opening up a debate on this. I'm asking if anyone's interested in the show. I see no one, I end the debate and we proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's draft law on the reduction of social security premiums and the contribution to the national employment policy paid by the employer as taxpayers in connection with emergency measures in the 2020 epidemic and the amendment of certain laws, Parliament's press 860, in the accelerated negotiations'. Initiating vote, I ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 11. 108 Members are currently registered, for 101, against no one. The motion was accepted. So we will now proceed to this point. I'm opening it. Just a note. We are still in a state of legislative emergency and reduced negotiations. I believe there is still a gentleman's agreement that de facto remarks will not be made. I have also asked the presidents of the various parliamentary clubs. Not everyone answered me, but I also received no veto or objection to this procedure. I therefore assume that this agreement continues and that factual remarks will not be applied on the basis of our agreement. The submitted proposal will be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor. I will ask my colleagues to remain calm in the hall and please transfer any conversations to the foyer. Thank you. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed bill has been drawn up to address the situation of employers who have suffered a significant fall in business in this context and who are at risk of high economic losses. The Government has already taken a number of measures to support the liquidity of the affected entities, in particular by granting loans with a guarantee from the State, or in particular the Antivirus programme, which compensates for part of the wage compensation paid. That is why we are proposing as further measures to enable employers, as a support for employers, to postpone payments of social security premiums paid by the employer from its assessment base until the 20th day of the following calendar month to the relevant account of the district social security administration. The proposed legislation concerns insurance premiums fixed at 24,8 per cent of the gross wage for May, June, July of this year and the deadline for payment of this premium is fixed by 20 October at the latest. If the payment of the premiums due takes place within the period thus prescribed, i.e. by 20 October of this year, the employer shall pay only 20 per cent of the periodic penalty payment provided for in Section 20 of the Social Security Insurance Act, which corresponds to an interest increase of approximately 4 per cent a. In other words, instead of a penalty of 0,05 per cent of the amount due for each calendar day, the penalty for late payment would be only 0,01 per cent for each calendar day of the amount, i.e. A fifth. In order to maintain an economic incentive to pay insurance to an employer, it is not proposed that the periodic penalty payment be completely abolished, but that it is reduced substantially, as I have just said. If I were to sum this up in one sentence, in order to strengthen the liquidity of companies, this is a quick, advantageous loan from the state without any administrative burden. However, the employer's obligation to deduct employees from his assessment base of insurance premiums remains maintained and to pay as a payer this premium at a rate of 6,5 per cent of gross wages until the 20th day of the following calendar month, again on behalf of the district social security administration. If the employer until this deadline, i.e. By 20 October, this premium will not be paid, it is obliged to pay a penalty of a standard amount, i.e. The amount already referred to shall be 0,05 per cent of the amount owed per day, corresponding to approximately 18 per cent of the annual interest rate. In order to simplify the administrative procedures relating to the payment of insurance premiums and to provide overviews of the amount and payment of premiums, two partial amendments are further proposed. [[16.10 hours]] This one concerns the introduction of the employer's obligation to provide an overview of insurance premiums exclusively electronically, which will in particular enable the Czech Social Security Administration to have data from the employer available as soon as possible. The processing of overviews of the amount of insurance sent in paper form is administratively demanding, we will probably agree on this, and the current practice shows that the electronic way of filing documents from employers to the Czech Social Security Administration over the past few years has already replaced the classical paper form practically spontaneously and on a voluntary basis in the vast majority. In connection with the eIncompetent, which we introduced on record time on 1 January of this year - and I think it has proved very successful in this coronation - there is already an obligation for all employers to submit documents for the calculation of sickness exclusively electronically, so that the electronic form of surveys now introduced should not cause any problems for employers. It is also proposed to withdraw the possibility of payment of insurance premiums in cash to the district social security administration. Securing cash payments at the district administration is demanding for human resources and security measures, and thus very costly, inefficient and, in addition, in the form of an epidemic, highly risky activity from the perspective of the possible transmission of COVID-19 disease. I would like to mention that in this context an amendment is tabled by Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, who we very much support, and we firmly hope that these two simplifications and, say, electronisations will be introduced permanently into our system. As regards the impact of the draft law on the state budget, the proposed measure is expected to have no impact on insurance income, since the premium itself will be paid later than the specified deadline, but still in 2020. The negative impact of the proposed measure will be reflected in cases where employers did not pay the premium properly in the revenue of the periodic penalty payment, the amount of which is reduced by 80 per cent. The loss of this income will not exceed millions of crowns a month. However, in view of the specific situation, it is not possible to estimate in advance the possible behaviour of employers in the capacity to fulfil the obligation to pay premiums without the proposed measure and also in its implementation. We consider it important to mention that. The effectiveness of the Act is proposed on account of the urgency of the date of publication of the provisions relating to the deferral of the maturity, and the other provisions are foreseen to be effective on 1 June 2020. In this context, in addition to my opinion on the amendments by Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, I would like to say that a coalition amendment to the so-called infirmary has also been applied to this bill. You know that we have been discussing for a few weeks here, and last week, an amendment failed to adjust the conditions for entitlement to infirmary for children in kindergartens or schools in May and June. However, this amendment, which is tabled by government Members, regulates or unifies the procedure for entitlement to the infirmary for all facilities for children under the age of 13, because you probably know that the first and second degrees have different regimes, kindergartens, children's groups also have different regimes, that is, school and pre-school children. We want to allow parents to continue to pump the infirmary if they do not place the child for serious reasons, and we define it as a possibility of endangering the health of the child or the health of other household members due to the occurrence of coronavirus. As another reason for not placing the child in preschool or school facilities, and hence the entitlement to the infirmary, we provide operational reasons on the part of the school or other facilities, for example because of capacity. It may be that the child will not be admitted to kindergarten or school for various reasons, so we believe that, even in these situations, he should be entitled to an infirmary of 80 per cent. Then we have other serious reasons listed on the parent's side, such as the failure to combine limited school attendance, for example three hours a day, with a job where the standard working time is eight hours a day. The reasons will be given by the parent, if this amendment is accepted, on the prescribed form issued by the Czech Social Security Administration under the monthly statement of drawdown of the infirmary, and then under these conditions, if approval occurs, it will be possible to draw on the three main headings, which are re-treated from 1 May to the end of June, as we have a valid emergency law regarding the higher infirmary. I may not have to mention that this coalition amendment also supports the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I personally support him very much and I will be very happy to see him accepted. The third thing I would like to mention in this context is that at the level of the Coalition Council, we are finishing the so-called Antivirus C programme, which should be designed to support companies that are trying to function and run their operations. We would like this support to be as low as administratively as possible, which means that at this point, we are working with the proposal that this support should be paid through automatic remission of social security advances. And I firmly hope that in the coming days the government will send this bill, because it would once again be a law change, approve and send it to this honourable House. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention, and I ask for your support and approval of the Act in the shortened negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. I would ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Jan Bauer, inform us of the discussion of this proposal within the committee and justify any amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u4	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me briefly a few comments in the report. I'd like to say four. 5. the original version of the Act prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which originally had two parts, was published. The first part concerned deferment of payments with reduced periodic penalty payments, suggested allowing employers to postpone payments of insurance premiums, with the employer paying only 20 per cent of the penalty payment for late payment, which corresponds to an increase of approximately 4 per cent a. The proposed adjustment concerns insurance premiums due until 20 June 2020, 20 July 2020 and 20 July. (?) Then there was the second part in the original version of 4. 5. which concerned the reduction of levies. This meant - for employers whose objectively declining sales exceeded the fixed limit, the aid was proposed in the form of a discount on insurance premiums for the months of June, July and August 2020. The basic condition is the year-on-year decline in sales to the specified extent, the debt-freeness of the employer in the field of social security premiums. There was, of course, a lot of line in this explanatory report about how Czech companies are getting into huge economic problems in the context of the crisis and that it is necessary, and the government is ready, to help these companies. 7. This year's 5th, which means last week, the government sat down and approved the bill without the second part that everyone has at your disposal today. This means, in practice, that the main notified aid fell out of the law, which is a reduction in social contributions, and only a part of the suspension of payments and a reduction in periodic penalty payments remained. I would like to say in the report that the Chamber of Commerce, Trade and Tourism, the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and the Chamber of Tax Advisors have opposed this version. Today, the current government version of the Committee on Social Policy has been discussed. He recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the proposal in the text of the amendment adopted, stating that this proposal would extend the deadline from October to November 2020. [[16.20 hours]] Last but not least, I would like to say that there are now about 16 amendments in the system. Of course, this figure may still increase during the general debate. I would just briefly repeat the resolution of today's 50th meeting of the Committee on Social Policy. It has several parts. Social Policy Committee I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to end its negotiations on this bill by 21.00 no later than today; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the Government's proposal for a law on the reduction of periodic penalty payments as amended by our resolution, where the minor amendment concerning this year's October to November; V. and last but not least empowers the rapporteur, which I have done with this. Mr President, thank you for the floor in my intelligence report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u5	I have three applications with priority rights. First Vice-President Okamura, then President Jurečka and then President Pekarová Adamová. We would then vote on whether to hold a general debate. With a procedural proposal, I have registered Mr Kubíček. First, one priority right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the first draft bill for today's House meeting has prepared a very unpleasant surprise for me. In quotation marks, the government calls companies and employees affected by the emergency situation a reduction of their periodic penalty payments to 20 per cent at the late payment of employer's contributions to social security employees. And I'm talking about helping companies suffer from a fall in income under emergency conditions. Am I dreaming? But it doesn't. It's really a government bill that we have here before us. So the government takes action in the fight against coronavirus, then companies have logical sales declines, and instead of helping them keep jobs, the government punishes them with penalties. That's really unbelievable. After all, it would be right to forgive the penalty entirely or to forgive the payment of insurance premiums during an emergency. That would be real help. Unfortunately, this government proposal is another typical example of the separation of government elites from the practical problems of people, in this case companies and employees. And it is also a demonstration of inability and unwillingness to really help companies and people in crisis. When I heard about this government proposal first from the media, where it presented it with great pomp, I originally thought that the government would reduce or forgive the penalty to all debtors, because fines from the state for social and health insurance have been knocking down businessmen, small companies into debt traps for many years, because a company that has difficulties and cannot pay insurance due to secondary insolvency may still receive a penalty, which often exceeds the amount due after some time. Of course, the problem is that the state collects and recovers VAT from those traders and entrepreneurs who have not been paid for the invoice, so the state, the government, is also involved in throwing honest entrepreneurs into secondary insolvency. Here I will remind you that our SPD movement has been pushing for several years to pay VAT only on the invoices actually paid. However, the government of the YES, ČSSD and KSČM movement is constantly rejecting our completely logical proposal and punishing honest entrepreneurs. Again, I'm saying that debts are meant to be paid. But what I'm talking about here in an emergency is a penalty. I keep wondering when it will finally dawn on the government and realize that businessmen, small and medium-sized companies are the backbone of the economy that will sustain the economy and employment in the fall of large companies. Unfortunately, I'm waiting in vain. And once again, I really don't understand why the government is putting such a half-assed law here today, when it's basically not helping companies and employees to maintain employment. So state bans get the company in trouble, and the government graciously only gives them a lower fine for not being able to pay because of state orders? Again, it should be automatic here, that the state should not be collecting any penalties at all at these moments. The second thing is that in the context of helping to start the economy, it should, on the contrary, make an amnesty for businessmen, small and medium-sized companies more across the board over the past years, perhaps just for those who will pay their debt to the state by the given date. Debts have to be paid, none of that, that's what I've been saying since the beginning. But a penalty payment could be forgiven in a crisis. Believe me, Dear Ministers and Ministers, this would be a real motivation for businessmen and companies to pay their debts, and it would be mutually beneficial. On this occasion, I would like to call on the Government to speed up the promised aid to citizens, employees, entrepreneurs and small businesses who have been most affected by government measures. I will not contradict the legitimacy of these measures, especially the introduction of the pandemic, the strict measures supported by the SPD, and thanks to this, we did quite well in the Czech Republic. But back to the precautions. Let me give you a very specific example. Companies were fooled by the government's promise not to release employees after a dramatic decline in sales in exchange for the government's contribution to wages. We have May, and the government of YES, ČSSD and KSČM was unable to send money to companies for employees in early May, in the first half of May, even in March. And now companies have to pay their wages for April. Firms are in danger of failing and insolvency just because they fell for Prime Minister Babiš's promises and didn't send employees to work. There's money in the budget. Even thanks to the votes of the members of the SPD, the government has 260 billion. CZK in addition to helping people and companies affected by emergency conditions. Don't be mad at me, but I think it's a big trick on the government's part about employers and employees. For the sake of the beggar. So why did the government promise employers and employees with great media pomp to support wages in exchange for not being fired? This is completely unacceptable for the SPD. But let's get back to today's proposal. The government proposes that the overviews of the Czech Social Security Administration should be given only electronically. A normal person would say that electronic communication is automatic in the 21st century and we should be in favour because it's something that should have been a long time ago. But again, unfortunately, we have a demonstration of total incompetence and ignorance of practice. District Social Security Administration has an overview of income and expenditure. They can touch them at any time in the financial authorities database, and they do. Reviews are given on paper only because under the law you have to sign them personally. If the original signature doesn't have to be, I don't understand why the overview, which is already based on financial offices, doesn't take social services from there, but the same paper has to be sent to the taxpayer double. Dear government, how about taking advantage of the crisis and teaching your authorities to communicate, share data, and stop harassing taxpayers who are living? If you let citizens work instead of paperwork, there'll be more money for the state. There's unnecessary paperwork everywhere. Thousands of people rewrite cars every day, and there are hourly queues at the office. Why? In the time of the electronic register, both the citizen and the clerk still have to write four-sided sheets in vain and then rewrite them into the electronic system and the papers are filed. It really doesn't take sense if it was enough for a citizen to come up with a purchase contract, with technical papers and a clerk to enter only new data into the register without the need to duplicate them on a paper form. The term of office would be shortened and there would be fewer officials on the same agenda, among other things. Here, however, on concrete examples, we come to the substance of the matter, how easily we could help the economy without billionaire subsidies to billionaires. All you have to do is use common sense, suppress bureaucracy to a minimum, and less channel those who make money on this country, and, of course, save jobs for officials too, thereby reducing the cost of the state. [[16.30 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, not senseless unattainable loans that pass money on state-funded interest to commercial banks and multinational corporations, but here in the concrete simplification and reduction of life for small and medium-sized companies and businessmen, real help lies. The employees will profit from it. Think about whether you really want to help, and I'm telling the government, and if you do, to whom. If ordinary people and Czech companies, then the road leads right this way, as I suggest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u8	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members. I want to start by thanking you for this law, because I consider it a very important tool for helping firms in the Czech Republic employing hundreds of thousands of people to survive to keep jobs so that people have jobs so that households have incomes, etc. And they kept a roof over their heads. Let me begin by introducing proposals for the KDU-ČSL to follow up briefly on the Minister and on the mentioned infirmary, which she was referring to. We proposed a similar proposal here a month and a half ago as KDU-ČSL suggested that even after opening schools and kindergartens they still have parents for some time, if they decide for serious reasons, for example because they have a person with reduced immunity at home, for example after surgery, transplantation, etc., so that they can decide not to send the child to kindergarten or kindergarten, and that the infirmary stays at 80 percent. Seems rational to me. We talked about this here last week. I confess, I do not understand how it was presented here in the morning, that Members - some - here want to reduce the infirmary etc. I don't understand why we should punish these parents because I think a normal parent, after two months, looks forward to going to kindergarten, they go to work, and they can also physically and mentally relax from this difficult time, when they must not only raise, babysit, but also teach at home, and for many of them it is very difficult. So we are certainly prepared to support this proposal for the KDU-ČSL club in the spirit that we have proposed it ourselves in the past. Now allow me to make this particular legislative proposal... [[Silence for noise in the hall.]] Thank you. Let me say what specific amendments the KDU-ČSL proposes in this area. I must say that I have also taken note of the practice of companies, employers, the Chamber of Commerce and other non-governmental organisations when designing our amendments, and I have therefore taken the liberty of proposing that the original government proposal, which allowed the deferral of social security payments for employees until 20 October, should be extended by at least a month. It's a good month, anyway, until November 20th. It's about 32 billion. crowns that can be held by companies for longer in cash flow each month. So I propose an extension, and I am glad that today, if I have the correct information, the committee has also accepted this amendment and will support it. Furthermore, I also suggest that we not just keep doing the delays, because most of the government's assistance so far consists either of promises, guarantees for commercial loans. That means it's not direct aid to entrepreneurs. That's a clear message: businessman, you've got a problem, go ahead, borrow, and we're gonna give that commercial bank a guarantee, and maybe that commercial bank will give you the loan to handle it. And that is why I would like to suggest that, in the current situation, we can forgive the companies affected by these social contributions for their employees. This means that I propose in the amendment that, in May and June, for all employers in the Czech Republic, we forgive 20% of the social security contributions and employers affected by the crisis, so that in May and June, 80 percent of the forgiveness of these contributions and in the months of June and August, when the crisis will get confused, and much longer so that it will be 40 percent. At the same time, I am authorising the amendment to the law so that, in view of the developments in the situation, the Government may be able to extend these measures. So that's another concrete step to leaving money with the companies so that the companies don't have to release them. Already in April we have very serious warning signals - 54,000 new unemployed are not funny. I know the numbers, when it's evaluated by a 3 per cent to 3 per cent optics, maybe some people aren't worried yet, but I'm really worried about it. And so far, most employers have been very responsible, let's say, but that just has its limits, and if they don't have the funds, they won't have the cash flow company, so they're just gonna have to start handing out the statements, even if they don't want to. Then there's a very important thing. I think that when I'm helping someone, I'm helping someone in a difficult situation, in a difficult time, which today is a difficult time, so I shouldn't be helping them. My colleague, Pavla Golasowská, proposed complete forgiveness of this interest rate until 20 November of the amounts that those companies will not take out in the coming months, but will pay them no later than 20 November. I am also giving alternative amendments to try to think in a compromise way that we would consider the government proposal that says today that the penalty will be lower by 80 per cent, which means an interest rate of about 4 per cent per year, so that in two alternatives we can assess and give the discount, let's say, to 90 per cent or 95 per cent, if the government coalition and the finance secretary are probably concerned that companies might be taking advantage of it on a flat-rate basis. All right, let there be some minimum interest rate, but 4 percent nowadays seems to me really useless when we're talking about helping companies to overcome this difficult situation. Then I would also like to propose an amendment concerning the deferral of the VAT due. It is not entirely the subject of this press, but we are in a state of legislative emergency, and I would very much like the government coalition to reconsider, and we all Members in the Chamber of Deputies, if companies would also not deserve help by being able to postpone the VAT of entrepreneurs, companies, businessmen towards the state until the end of this year. It would be a second instrument that could significantly ease and help these companies, and I would very much like to consider this support. The last proposal I have here concerns the accompanying resolution, because the government measures that are trying - and I think that is the way in the right direction, although I think that these parameters might have been different - to help entrepreneurs to help them pay part of their rent costs. It is addressed through the subsidy title of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which we, as legislators, do not have a direct influence on, but I would very much like us to consider the motion for a resolution in the Chamber of Deputies, and that resolution is that, in a situation where entrepreneurs and those who are in the rental are unable to negotiate with the owner of the property a 30% discount for some reason, so that the government should consider that if it is possible to negotiate a 20% discount, so that the State's support will be kept there. I therefore allow myself to propose a resolution which reads: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to order the Ministry of Industry and Trade to adjust the parameters of the planned subsidy programme COVID - Rent in such a way that the State's contribution to the rent is graduated according to the amount of the discount granted by the landlord, and it was possible to obtain it even if the landlord lowers the rent amount than expected by 30 %. Thank you so much for all the jobs that have been maintained, for all the companies supporting these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. With priority rights, President Pekarová, Adamová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u10	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, long awaited - should be called help, but it is not much help, this help for employers has admitted to the government such changes that I am reluctant to call it yet. And I am quite glad that the Minister has actually admitted that it is now more about the loan than the direct aid for which entrepreneurs, the associations that bring them together, the Chamber of Commerce and many others, are calling so much in view of what their experience with all the other instruments of assistance has been. So here I propose that we call this print 860 COVID - Drainage. That would be much more accurate. It's new in a series of covides, a new tool instead of really being direct help. [[16.40 hours]] I'm sure the way it's designed can help someone. But in order for this to be a really wider aid and to help a much larger spectrum of companies that have been directly affected by the current unfortunate situation, I suggest that we not only mitigate the penalty, but also reduce the levy itself quite significantly. Then we can call it a real help. I therefore propose an amendment, where I propose that, in May, June, July of this year, contributions to insurance premiums be reduced to social insurance by 80 per cent in the case of crisis-stricken employers. So the 20 percent remaining is so much that even later penalty payments would probably not be necessary. But if the penalty is still necessary, I suggest, at a later payment, that it should not be applied at all when the employer will be paid by 20 December of this year. That's the real help everyone's been calling for. You know, I think we have a chance to show that we really want to be fair to employers. They needed help quickly, many have not yet had it. We hear bombastic numbers here, more than one trillion crowns fly in the air from the mouth of individual ministers very often. But the reality of these companies is that their turn hasn't come with anything yet. Antivirus, one of the best tools that is, and I admit it, is just complaining a lot of them, from those applicants, that they manage more slowly. We're hearing a big complaint about the infirmary, and we were discussing it with the committee today. There is still a small group of parents who still haven't received a sick leave in March. We've got an incredible pigeon about how we're gonna do with the infirmary from Monday. We are today, we have Wednesday, a part of the schools opening on Monday - or part of the school opening, but for part of the children opening up the opportunity to go back to school. But still the parents of these children, who may not be able to go for various reasons, do not know whether the state will continue to support them to the infirmary or not. Yeah, well, there's a changeling working out here, but you gotta admit, the moment your parents are supposed to let you know by Friday whether or not they're gonna let the kid go to school, the way they're gonna deal with it on Wednesday, it's really... we don't have words. So the state didn't do very well in that regard. I'll be exact, the government didn't show up. That is why he has a chance to actually implement his original promises, and thus to support those amendments to show that he is aware that the aid has not been real yet or was not sufficient. This is also COVID - Rent. This is one of the proposals, or the reimbursement of rents in the TOP 09 proposal and other opposition parties, which we have repeatedly presented here in various compromise variants. In the end, there was something a little different from what we wanted, because our idea was really about direct aid. And we see that the conditions are set so that they will again comply especially with the large shopping centres. And I'm sure we want to help them too, I'm not saying that, but to others who may have just a small non-residential space rented for their shop somewhere in a smaller town square, it's not very well set for them. And I know Minister Havlíček isn't here and we don't have this place as a law. But this needs to be a concrete example of how those very well-intended aid instruments eventually become a tool only for the chosen. And that's actually a sign of all the government's aid to companies. Very often obstacles, here and there some hook, big paperwork, a lot of bureaucracy and overcrowded authorities that can't handle it. Therefore, please from COVID - Let us make a really direct aid. Let us make this a proposal that will therefore take into account the difficult situation in which companies have come into those regulations that have been necessary but which have damaged a huge number of them. And they're not really gonna have those to pay for those charges right now. And in order to pay the reduced penalty, but in other ways they borrowed from the state in this way, it seems to me beyond the edge, because it's actually just the state's saying again: so we found a loophole to make it a help that won't cost us so much. Please, let's make this direct and effective for employers. alfa and Omega have been keeping jobs here for weeks. And the proposal that we are proposing will really help this much better than the proposal that came out of the government itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Kubíček, acting President of the ANO Club, is applied, but if this were the case for a procedural proposal for a debate, I would first suggest that we vote on whether we will hold a general debate. I have called in Members who are not in the hall so that we can vote in sufficient numbers. I believe that such a situation has already occurred. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 12, 103 Members registered, for 70, against no one. We have approved that a general debate will take place. Mr Kubíček, now with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So that we do not break tradition, I propose limiting the debate for one Member in both a general and a detailed debate for five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u13	Yes, the motion has been made. There's a checkout request. I checked you all out. Please log in with your voting cards again. And I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 13, 79 Members signed in, for 58, against 11. The motion was accepted. In the debate, each Member shall speak once in five minutes. Now with priority rights - I have opened the debate. With priority rights, Mr Jan Bauer is registered with the ODS club's opinion. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u14	Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me a brief opinion on the ODS. You know, I would very much like to see such a peaceful atmosphere here with the naive idea that the business sector is helping, because, and that is my great concern, if that eviscerated government law presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Jana Maláčová, is passed here, and there will be no other amendments, for example, the complex one that we have put forward for our parliamentary club, so in my opinion, it is a travesty to help the business sector. I say that quite frankly. That's a travesty to help, because there was virtually nothing left of the original proposal. And if the current disemboweled version is approved, it doesn't mean anything in practice except that by a few months you'll allow employers and entrepreneurs to postpone social security payments paid by the employer, 24 percent and some change, and those few months will interest about 4 percent per annum. That's the reality you have here. [[16.50 hours]] I would like to remind you that the government has promised to help entrepreneurs who have lost their sales and sometimes all their income from one day to the next. I also repeat that the original MPSV proposal, which we confirmed today and on the committee, was, in addition to the reduction of the penalty for late payments, the social contributions, calculated at the same time as their reduction, provided that the entrepreneur proves the established decline in sales. That was the original proposal. I have already pointed out in this intelligence explanatory report that, from my point of view, for incomprehensible reasons, the government did not agree on 7 May and the proposal was torpedoed by its own secretary. It is simply a reality - perhaps today we will find out what actually happened to that government - and she has thrown out of law a proposal for real aid, which is a reduction in contributions, and in my opinion, the entrepreneur has thrown it overboard. I really think it's a fraud against entrepreneurs and the business sector, because according to the reason reports from the original law, you could read that it's an honest effort to really help the sector. I think the government lied when it promised effective aid to the business sector. I believe that she lied when she promised to reduce the financial burden borne by employers regardless of the huge economic losses. And I don't think she was telling the truth when she said she wanted to secure the social security of the employees because she threatened to lay off. You can read all of this in the explanatory memorandum. The government just threw the greasy bone to the employers. And that final government proposal is a mockery, and in my opinion, it doesn't help anyone at all. I would also like to point out that the Civil Democratic Party has so far supported most of the government's emergency measures, and in this case, you can expect our support from us in a very difficult way. We therefore come up with our own proposal because we want to help Czech companies and employers not only with words but also with sensible measures to help them survive the current situation and preserve jobs. We are based on business-sector proposals. I didn't even discuss it today at the press conference that we were putting our proposal together, among other things, with the Chamber of Commerce, with the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and other groups. We propose complete remission of the periodic penalty payments and at the same time lay down the conditions under which social contributions can be reduced. We want to reduce all employers' contributions by 20 per cent in May and June; if employers fulfil the conditions laid down, such as the closure of an establishment or a certain percentage of employees in quarantine, they will be reduced by 80 per cent in May and June and by 40 per cent in the next two months. At the same time, we propose to postpone contributions for the months of May and June until 20 December this year and for the months of July and August until 20 February 2021. So much so, roughly very briefly, the wording of our amendment or complex amendment, which I have put into the system under number 5220, and which I will apply to in the context of a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. Mrs Pavla Golasowská will now speak in the debate and Mrs Šafránková will prepare herself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to my amendment, which concerns the remission of periodic penalty payments to employers for social security payments of 100 per cent, as has already been mentioned here, because I find it inadequate when the government proposal allows employers to postpone payments for social insurance and then actually punishes them with a penalty of 20 per cent. So I suggest we forgive a penalty of 100 percent. And thank you for supporting this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. Mrs Lucie Šafránková will now appear. And Mr. Jan Bauer has spoken, so I assume he won't be performing. And Mrs Aulická Jírovcová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you the amendments that I propose to the SPD on the Government's proposal to reduce the social security premiums paid by the employer. First of all, we want to fully forgive the penalty for the social security debt to all employers who will pay their compulsory insurance contributions for May to July until the legal grace period, which is 20 October 2020. The government, on the one hand, gives them this possibility of deferment and, at the same time, wants to charge them a penalty, albeit partially reduced, which can cause a lot of problems. In one of our proposals, we therefore require this penalty to be fully forgiven to employers. In the second, in addition to this remission of periodic penalty payments, we want to extend the deadline for deferment of insurance premiums for employers until 31 December 2020. Let us give our employers a longer time in these difficult and crisis times to take a breath and recover a little, especially if it is not a reduction or remission of payments by the States, but only a delay. In the third of our proposal, we demand that we maintain the possibility of paying social security debts at branches of the Czech Social Security Administration in cash. The government wants to take this opportunity away from them, which is another challenge to the conditions for the smallest entrepreneurs. Moreover, we do not understand why people should not have the right to pay in cash and, above all, the right to pay in cash must remain preserved, must not be restricted by the State anywhere. In the last, fourth proposal, we propose at least the possibility of paying social insurance in cash at mail, using so-called. free bills, as the Financial Administration allows citizens to pay certain taxes. We want to maintain the comfort of choice between cash and cash-free payment to citizens, and we consider it part of human freedom and free elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová and Mrs Valachová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make a statement for the KSČM Parliamentary Club on this government proposal. I must say that we understand the whole situation, and more or less as KSČM... a really difficult period, and that is why we openly say that this government proposal, as it is written, we support, even if we agree perhaps with some colleagues from the Social Committee, that, as originally presented by the House press on government, it would be far better for the needs of our employers in practice, and more or less now what the situation is. In any case, I would still like to submit or inform you and present two of my amendments. One amendment is, in fact, the same or, more or less, the less modified proposal presented by my colleague Valachová, I think with my colleague Juchelka, and it concerns, of course, the infirmary, which is probably one of the most discussed topics today. The point is that I have already announced on the Committee on Social Policy that I will dust off, if I may literally say so, the amendment of my colleague Valachová's last week's proposal concerning children as well, or virtually. parents who have children in kindergartens will continue to be entitled to the infirmary if their child does not attend the kindergarten for any reason. It's an adjustment, I think, based on what actually happened last week. And I, because I didn't really know until the last moment how any coalition agreement would end on a possible amendment, which was announced by the Minister on the Social Policy Committee, and that is why I actually filed it because I promised our voters and citizens of the Czech Republic that we would not be the ones who would leave parents of children in kindergarten in the lurch. [[17,00 hours]] The second amendment is a little bit - I don't want to say the sticker, I'm sorry about that. But it is actually a great help to the Czech Social Security Administration, and especially at this time, when the pressure really is considerable and the employees are very busy. And it is - the Minister has already introduced him here - about the electronisation of the remaining forms, I think there are about six of them, which could be mandatory to submit electronically from employers since 1. 9. 2020. This obligation is already underway for employers in other forms. This means that it is not important to them or in any way burdensome to them, and we believe that it will be for the benefit of both employers and employees of the Czech Social Security Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. Mrs Kateřina Valachová will now speak in the general debate, and Mrs Richterová will be ready. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on what has already been announced here, that is to say, what treatment parents should look like if they do not send their child to kindergarten or primary school. I am calling on this amendment, which I will then apply to in a detailed debate, to be tabled under the authority of the Social Democracy Club, together with my colleague Aleš Juchelka, who does so again under the authority of the ANO Group. This is our joint coalition agreement. What's our goal. The aim is to align the legal regimes in kindergarten and primary school, let us say that a single corona regime should apply to them until 30 June. Second, to describe precisely the reasons that parents may have for having their child in kindergarten or primary school, which is now gradually opening up, by law. Since this is a matter which is of interest not only to all Members but also to the general public and, above all, to parents, I would like to read the amendment in this section. This means that an employee does not place a child in this establishment or school with regard to the possibility of his or her health or health of other persons living with a child in the household, due to the occurrence of coronavirus referred to as SARS-CoV-2 or for other serious reasons. And now we have written out these other serious reasons. In particular, a significant reduction in the capacity or operating hours of facilities for children or schools or the setting of restrictive regime measures in these facilities established in relation to the occurrence of coronavirus referred to as SARS-CoV-2 is considered to be another serious reason. The reason for not placing the child in an establishment or school, as already announced by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, is the employee obliged to state on the prescribed form. Thus, this procedure solidifies the instructions and clearly sets out for parents how they can continue. There's no need for further changes. This means that parents will continue to receive 80 per cent of the assessment base in this case and the limit is 30 June. Thank you for your attention and, of course, for supporting this joint amendment for the Social Democracy Club and the ANO movement club, namely for me and for Aleš Juchelka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. Mrs Olga Richterová will now speak in the debate, and Mrs Kovářová will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u24	Thank you for the floor. I'd just like to say briefly for the Pirates Club that we're happy to finally have a solution to the infirmary. We supported it last week in the House as some sort of lonely mohycans. I just want to ask - if a thing affects thousands of founders, whether schools or kindergartens, and tens of thousands of parents, maybe hundreds of thousands, it's really crazy when they learn how to deal with the resulting conditions of their entitlement, actually two days before they have to say the final position whether the child goes to school or not. The stress you had, I suppose, even you, not just me, in the e-mail boxes and in the other inboxes, were a lot, and how much stress those families were experiencing. So I don't want to prolong it, I want us to vote it out as soon as possible. But we really consider it a disgrace to the Prime Minister, in particular, that he could not arrange for the ministry to agree in time that the Prime Minister could not give the clear information to the families a week ago, two weeks ago. And as for this carrier, this is actually more important to the public, I would just like to comment that the reduction of the premium penalty for the Pirates' MP club certainly makes sense to us. We will support some of the recorded amendments. But overall, we just want to warn that if the entire insurance policy is completely forgiven and could be paid later, it could cause a rather serious cash flow blackout, a blackout that the state might feel. That wouldn't be entirely responsible. So that's why we consider a small penalty to be a reasonable compromise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová, so far the last one entered in the general debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a few words as an opinion from STAN on this proposal. I must say that at first glance it seems reasonable that social security payments will be postponed. But it's not that convenient to look at the other. I think - and we believe that companies will only tighten the loop because the payments are postponed in the fall. And that's where I'd like to ask the secretary what's next. Of course, what is absolutely unnecessary is the penalty, which will be measured, albeit reduced. And, of course, in the current crisis in this regard, penalizing entrepreneurs is absolutely unthinkable, unconstructing. And since the delay in payments would make sense, an interest-free loan would make sense, not a penalty. Also, the deadline is very short. Of course, we'll support her extension. I think that delaying payments as such will certainly help entrepreneurs or firms only for a short period of time. As far as we know, the reduction in social security contributions was in the original government proposal, and it fell out on the government. Well, that's a real shame if that's not what happened. So if the government really wants to help entrepreneurs quickly and efficiently and wants jobs to be preserved, we would assume that this speed will be temporarily in reducing the social security levy, and in this spirit we will also support Mr Bauer's amendment to the ODS and Mr Bauer, respectively. Then I would have just a short question, which does not therefore apply to this proposal, but we have proposed a resolution on a compensatory bonus that the government would somehow adjust and compare it to the level of the CFI for the little eserogae, because the little eserogae are actually such a disguised CFI. And if we want to get them to the same level, then whether the Minister is also considering forgiving social security payments for these small ones to get right to the self-employed level to make it really fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. Minister Maláčová has yet to sign up for the debate with priority rights, and Mr Skopeček is also reporting from his post. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna do it again just in case, because I think it came together in my opening words, how the whole help is meant with the help of deferment or remission of social security payments. This is part A, where we help companies that have liquidity problems, but have not been so affected by the coronation, so we help them and allow them to postpone social security payments. The four percent interest, 4 percent p. a., that means 1% quarterly, and that's a very low amount, so that companies that don't have liquidity problems don't just postpone payments just because the state allows them to do so. You know we're talking about monthly amounts of over 30 billion. CZK, which are social insurance payments for firms in the payroll sector. And such high amounts, if we didn't put the interest and delay on all companies, because it would be very advantageous, even if they weren't affected by the coronation, then, of course, it would have an impact on the state budget. Of course, it would only be shifted in time, but we would still cut our state budget revenues like this. Therefore, 1 per cent per quarter of a year, it is a very low rate and it will help companies that do not have such big and deep problems. I'm saying this quite frankly, it's a convenient loan for a few months. But then the B that I mentioned will come and we would like to start the Antivirus program, when we - we are in the negotiation phase - forgive social insurance contributions for companies that have been severely affected, we will help those who are at their worst. That means it needs to be seen in context. This is part one, part two comes in the next few days, and that interest is there so we don't cut our cash flow state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. Mr Jan Skopeček will now appear in the debate and Mr Válek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u30	Thank you for the floor. I will not repeat the arguments that have been raised here, although I also think that there is no real help, that it is rather from the government, by the Minister, such a game, such a pretending that they want to help, but the help is not really there, because the problem is being pushed away only in time. The real aid to the labour market in the Czech Republic, which will, of course, be more and more intense, would be if we reduced almost record-high contributions to the work that employers pay for their employees in our developed OECD countries. In the proportion of what an employer pays for employees, we are indeed at the top of developed countries and, of course, this causes problems especially in times of crisis. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. I have two notes. I would like to ask why entrepreneurs take the choice in two aspects, namely the possibility of paying social security in cash and then forcing entrepreneurs to send checks of payments to social security administrations electronically. I think that if the government comes up with a law that - and I say it shows, it fakes help, so why are there provisions that take freedom of choice for entrepreneurs? I understand that non-cash payments of social security are happening mostly, that few use cash payments, but who other than state institutions should have an obligation to accept cash payments issued by the Czech state, cash money. I really don't think it's normal, this paragraph has smuggled in, and his ambition, of course, is to pay for eternal times. I don't understand. If the state is no longer taking cash as a means of payment, then let the government come in here with the fact that only the cash-free economy, that it wants to cancel the cash, but doing it this way in quotes, these partial laws, it doesn't seem fair to me. Admit that you don't like cash, that you want to cancel it, for what reasons and don't put it this way, into the law. On this basis, I am proposing an amendment which will guarantee entrepreneurs the possibility of paying social security in cash, although I understand that this will be a very minimum number of people. Next thing. On the contrary, a state that has not been able to digitize its agenda for years is forcing citizens and entrepreneurs to communicate only electronically with the administration. I understand that this should be a goal, that it should be an attempt to motivate people not to send papers to the authorities, but to communicate electronically, but if, for any reason, someone does not want to communicate electronically, then again, he should be given the freedom to choose to use a classic form instead of a computer and instead of electronic communication. So there's no help, on the contrary, there's a secret in that law that the freedom of choice is taken by entrepreneurs. So let's call it real names and not say we're helping entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. Mr Vlastimil Válek, at this time the last one entered in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I am glad that somehow managed to solve at least partially, or for a large part, the Czech Republic, and I have a question, respectively. I don't know one thing. Even though Minister Plaga told the Health Committee that he never shut down kindergarten, I'm not sure who closed it. However, these kindergartens were closed in many places in April. And I'm not sure whether the parents who cared about the children who went to kindergartens in April or just couldn't go to kindergartens in April, whether they could reach the Czech Republic in April or not. I just wanted to ask the Minister for information, because I know that we've approved it back since May, I've checked it out, but now that I'm losing my way a little bit -- the government doesn't take turns, they don't come here at all because they're afraid of covid, I understand, I'm afraid to be the Prime Minister's age, too, but I just want to check if it's really the way it's gonna be in April. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. The Minister has signed up for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u34	Thank you. I'd be happy to answer that. She, the amendment we approved three weeks ago, which increased the infirmary to 80 per cent during emergency measures and emergency conditions, actually introduced the fact that even though the nursery shut down the founder, there is a claim to the infirmary. That's one thing. So parents who have a child not only in kindergarten, but also in another preschool facility that was closed by the founder during the emergency period, respectively. emergency measures shall qualify for an infirmary of 80 per cent. In fact, for the duration of the emergency measures, we increased all the Czech Republic to 80 per cent back to April 1st to 30th. 6. and what the amendment is actually doing now - so since the founders are opening up various modes of kindergarten, we have aligned the regime for primary schools and kindergarten schools. So we're getting it on one track, we're doing the same regime for all of us, and we're giving serious reasons that we specify in that amendment why he should be entitled to the infirmary. These are particularly the health reasons, then the fact that a child does not fit in a nursery for capacitive reasons or for school, that can also happen, or that, for example, working hours do not coincide with the time when the child is placed in a school or preschool facility. That is the point of the amendment. Then, if you don't mind, I would have responded to Mr. Skopeček about the cash payments. I'll give you some numbers. The Czech Social Security Administration pays about CZK 6 million a year for cash deliveries. However, additional costs of CZK 30 million per year still need to be added to this. This means that it costs us 36 million in total, but we will collect 800 million crowns a year on the insurance policy. This means that it's extremely expensive and almost, as the numbers already prove, 800 million versus half a billion, actually it's almost not used anymore. That's why we're electronizing, or we're giving it an opportunity to send it uncashed. [[17.20 hours]] Second thing - criticism of electronization. I am the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs for a year and three quarters and I think that two successful electronic projects speak for the MPSV. The first one was an incompetent, the bill was passed in June. On January 1st of this year we introduced an eIncompetent, it is seen as a very successful project, which has proved extremely successful in the time of the coronation, and everyone is very positive about it. Everyone today recognizes that the eneschopenka has made our work very easy. And the second thing, and this is the commendation that we received from all the employers' associations, the electronic form for the Antivirus program is considered one of the most successful, simple eGovernment projects, because it is a very simple, very understandable form that helps companies to keep jobs and the commendation on it, even though we have produced it within a few days, we have been given really from all corners. This means that on MPSV under my leadership, we have only managed to implement two very successful projects of the state administration's electronicisation in the last six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? No one is to be heard in the general debate, and I am done with the general debate. Interested in the final words? Madam Secretary doesn't, nor does the rapporteur. I am opening up a detailed debate. Mrs Golasowská will be the first to speak in a detailed debate, and Mrs Šafránková will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up not only for my amendment, but also for my colleague Marian Jurečka's amendments. All amendments were duly commented in the general debate. The first amendment concerns the remission of a penalty of 100 per cent, under House document number 5223. The next amendment concerns the delay in due date, under House document number 5234. The next amendment concerns the waiver of part of the premium and is under House document number 5235. The next amendment concerns the remission of a penalty of 90 per cent and is under the number of the House document 5236. Another amendment also concerns the remission of a penalty payment of 95 per cent and is under the number of House document 5237. And the last amendment concerns deferment of VAT payments and is under the number of House document 5264. I would also like to sign up for the resolution that my colleague, Marian Jurečka, has read here in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. Now, Mrs Šafránková, Mr Bauer will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u38	Thank you. I would also like to sign up for my amendments, which I have explained in detail in the general debate. The first amendment is under the number of House document 5219 and concerns the total remission of periodic penalty payments from social security payments to employers if they pay everything by 31. 12. 2020. The second amendment under the number of House document 5217 also concerns the total remission of the periodic penalty payments from social security payments to employers if they pay everything by 20 October 2020. The third amendment, which is under the number of the House document 5227, is the abolition of a paragraph that removes citizens from paying debts from social security at branches of the Czech Social Security Administration in cash. And the last amendment under the number of the House document 5221 is to leave the possibility of paying social security debts in cash, but not at branches of the Czech Social Security Administration, but at post offices in the form of free bills. I beg you to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u39	Thank you. Mr Bauer, in a detailed debate, will be prepared by Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u40	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for an amendment or a comprehensive amendment inserted into the system under number 5220. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u41	Thank you. Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, Mrs Valachová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I will also allow myself to sign up for two amendments, one under the House press 5257 and the other under the House press 5259. The reasons for the two amendments were expressed in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u43	Thank you. Mrs Valachová, Mr Martínek will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u44	Thank you. I am signing up for Amendment 5256 by Kateřina Valachová and Aleš Juchelka. I have justified it in detail in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Martínek, Mr Skopeček will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u46	I would like to sign up for the amendments tabled and read into the system. I'd just like to justify them briefly. One of them, the number of the House document 5262, is an amendment that the petitioner - the relevant OSSZ demands an overview of the amount of the assessment base exclusively electronically. This amendment repeals this, because the main argument of the petitioner is the administrative complexity of the processing of overviews of the amount of premiums sent in physical, paper form. According to the explanatory memorandum, the CSSZ received almost 2.8 million electronically in 2019. an overview of the amount of the premium, representing more than 80 per cent of the total quantity. Less than 20 per cent of employers who provide an overview of the amount of the assessment base will be forced to submit paper almost immediately. We support digitalisation, but I do not think that this amendment is appropriate to discuss at this time in a legislative emergency. I also refer to the SD Amendment 5263, when the petitioner now cancels the possibility of payment of insurance premiums to the OSSZ in cash. The main arguments of the petitioner are the risk of collecting premiums at the time of the epidemic, cost and inefficiency. According to the explanatory memorandum, an insurance premium of around 850 million is accepted annually at the cash registers. CZK, which represents less than two million of the premiums paid. We take the view that everyone should freely choose how to conduct the insurance payment transaction. I also present the accompanying resolution, which is presented as House document 5265, namely: The Chamber of Deputies warns the government that the tax burden on labour, including compulsory contributions, is very high in the Czech Republic. During the economic downturn, this leads to higher unemployment and the pressure of employees into the grey economy. Secondly, it calls on the Government to prepare tax policy measures, including mandatory levies, to mitigate high labour taxation, thus preventing higher unemployment and other structural problems. Finally, I am submitting another amendment under SD number 5270, which is based on Mr Jurečka's amendment. Thus, as in this amendment, it reduces the penalty by 90 per cent, with the fact that, contrary to the amendment in question, it leaves the possibility of remission of the periodic penalty payments up to CZK 1,000 to smaller payers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u47	Thank you. Now, President Pekarová Adamová and then Mr Skopeček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u48	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I hereby sign up to the House of Press 5247, an amendment which I have already justified here during the previous debate. [[document]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u49	Thank you. Mr Jan Skopeček, the last one entered in the detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u50	Thank you very much. I would like to sign up for the amendment under number 5267. This should maintain the possibility of payment of insurance premiums both cash and cash-free. If Czech crowns are legally designated as legal tender, I do not understand why the state office should not accept cash. The fact that it has its costs seems like an incredible argument to me. Let the Minister think if he can't save money in any way, but he can't serve as an argument, because the Czech currency is certainly to be accepted by the state authorities. And the other amendment that I am proposing to is Amendment 5268, and that is the effort to maintain freedom of choice for entrepreneurs in whether they will send submissions electronically or in paper form. I support digitalisation, but it should not be done by violence, and freedom of choice should remain. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? He's not reporting. I am ending the debate in detail. Interested in the final words? It's not. We are now in this situation. In order to begin the third reading of this proposal and to be processed and tabled amendments in writing, it takes at least 45 minutes. We cannot deal with any further points because the ministers concerned are at the Senate meeting, so I have no choice, after a preliminary agreement with the presidents of the MPs, but to interrupt the Chamber of Deputies until 18.15 hours. Then I interrupt the meeting, we'll continue at 18.15 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I see no minister, gentleman, here. So let's keep going. We are in a situation where under the Rules of Procedure Act § 99 para. 7 may immediately follow the negotiations on the third reading of the proposal in the shortened negotiations after the second reading. [[Call off the microphone.]] And Mrs. Labor and Social Affairs Minister Jana Maláčová is at the rapporteur's desk. I ask if there is a rapporteur, Mr Jan Bauer. He won't be present until 6:30. No, he's here. The rapporteur's here. [[Call off the microphone.]] Oh, okay. Thus, until the legislative processing of the amendments, the rapporteur informs at 6:30 p.m. So I'm gonna interrupt the meeting one more time by 6:30. Yes? We will meet at 6:30 p.m. to prepare all the amendments from the legislation. I'm calling a break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, we will continue. The break for the drafting of legislative amendments, which were tabled at second reading, ended. And so we will continue reading third. [[The President gets information off the microphone.]] The truth is that the amendments are being drawn up, but they are not yet reproduced for individual Members. Let's wait a little longer. I understand we haven't been able to estimate the intensity. [[A brief silence.]] And since I don't have any signal as long as this can take, I'm gonna consult with the presidents of the MPs so we can put together some time to start. So I'll ask the president of the MPs to join me for a moment. [[Short briefing off the microphone.]] There. After consulting the presidents of the MPs, we can continue with the fact that, in the meantime, materials will be distributed to you, the rapporteur will read the amendments, or refer to the exact number of the House document that is marked in the system, and you can recognise the amendment from the system. I will therefore ask the rapporteur to follow the debate with me at the third reading that I am initiating, and I am of the opinion that I have no application for it. I'm done with the conversation. And I'm asking for final words at third reading. It's not like that. We can therefore move on to the amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u54	So, Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I don't want to apologize, because that is certainly not my problem at all, but there is a great delay. In general, I really think that in a time frame like this, laws shouldn't be passed, that's what I'm really saying. And somehow it is prepared, so I wanted to ask all of you, including the management of this meeting, to be careful if we are voting correctly first, and secondly, whether everything that was loaded was then voted on. But it's really on the edge. And I also wanted to thank the legislative department, which I think they did today in the next quarter of an hour. I would like to propose the following procedure, as we would vote on it. I'm just saying in advance that what's marked under the letter "A" - that's what we quickly noted - is a matter of committee. The amendments under letter B are Mrs Golasowská. Under C Mrs Šafránková, under D Member Bauer, under E Member Aulická Jírovcová, under F Member Valachová, under G Member Martínek and under H Member Pekarová Adamová and finally under I is Mr Skopeček. I would like to inform you that, overall, if we have counted correctly, 22 amendments, with two accompanying resolutions available from Mr Martínek and Mr Jurečka. So I guess, Mr. Vice President, I'd like to read the motion for the procedure now. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. - Yes.]] It's a long story. Do you want me to read it all? I guess so, what we have left. 1. we would vote on resolution A, which is the committees. If accepted, C1, C2, D, B1, B4, H, G3 and B5 shall be non-voting. If not adopted, we will vote subsequently on C1 which, if adopted, is unvoting C2, D, B1, B4, H, G3 and B5. We will then vote on the amendment under C2. If accepted, it shall be unvoting D, B1, B4, H, G3 and B5; 4. if the vote under letter D is adopted, B1, B4, H, G3 and B5 shall be unvoted; 5. we will vote on B1, which, if adopted, is unvoting B4, H, G3, B5; 6. we will vote on B4, if adopted, is unvoting H, G3 and B5; 7. we shall vote on the proposal under letter B, which, if adopted, is unvoting G3 and B5; 8. we will vote on the G3 if accepted, is the non-voting B5; 9. we vote on B5 10. B3; 11. B6; 12. C4, if C4 is adopted, C3 is unvoting; 13. we vote on C3; 14. F, if accepted, is non-voting E1 15. E1; 16. E2; 17. the vote on G1, if adopted, shall be non-voting I2; 18. I2; 19. G2, if accepted, the non-voting I1; 20. I1; 21. finally on the proposal as a whole, with that respectively. Finally, we will vote on the two accompanying resolutions, as I voted on them (?). So, if you ladies and gentlemen are well orienting yourselves, which is not going to be easy, I'm saying this frankly, because this is really extremely short notice, then, Mr Vice-President, we could deal with this voting procedure, then proceed...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u55	Yes, that's the right question. Does anyone have a counterclaim for the procedure against the rapporteur's proposal? I think it's logically composed, including the collisions on the vote. If no one reports, I will vote on procedure number 14 that I have just begun, and I ask who agrees with the procedure proposed by the rapporteur. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 14 of the present 108 for 106, against no one. The procedure has been approved. We can therefore, rapporteur, start with the committee resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u56	Excellent. So, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we would deal with the amendment under the letter A, which I announced, which is a proposal based on the committee. I would like to say that this proposal is identical to B2, and if this A is accepted, C1, C2, D, B1, B4, H, G3 and B5. So please, Mr Vice-President, we can begin the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u57	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I'll check you all out and ask you for a new registration based on a request from the diaper. We therefore have sufficient time to consider the committee's amendment with the Minister's dissenting position. The number of entries is, I think, stable. I've started voting number 15. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 15. From the present 105, for 50, against 27. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u58	Thank you. Then we vote by procedure. If A has not been adopted, we will vote on the amendment referred to in C1. Cs are Mrs Šafránková's amendments. And I'll just briefly tell you what this proposal is about. It's a complete pardon penalty. We can start voting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u59	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 16. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 16. Of the present 107, for 37, against 2. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u60	Thank you. We would then deal with the amendment referred to in C2. If accepted, D, B1, B2, B4, H, G3 and B5 shall be non-voting. So now we're voting on C2. Just so you know what we're voting on. It is Mrs Šafránková's amendment - complete remission of the penalty payment plus an extension of the period for payment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u61	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 17. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 17. Of the present 107, for 37, against 1. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u62	Thank you. Fourthly, we would then deal with the amendment under D, which is my parliamentary proposal. In short, it is a reduction in social contributions and the remission of all penalties.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u63	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting number 18. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 18. Of the present 107, for 48, against 1. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u64	Thank you. We would then deal with the amendment under B1. This is Mrs Golasowská proposal. If I am right to see what this proposal is about in short, it is a complete abolition of the penalty. I don't see the lady. Isn't that right? Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u65	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting number 19. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 19. Of the 107, for 37, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u66	Thank you. The next vote would be to deal with the amendment under B4. It is therefore an amendment that has been loaded by Mr Jurečka, but Mrs Golasowská has applied to it. And four is - if I'm not mistaken, sorry... [[He's looking in the background.]] Reduction of periodic penalty payments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u67	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting number 20. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 20. Of the 107, for 39, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u68	Thank you. In the seventh time, we will deal with the amendment under the letter H, Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Just in short, what the proposal's about. Reduction of the assessment base for May 2020 to July 2020 by 80 per cent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u69	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting number 21. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 21. Of the present 107, for 48, against 4. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u70	The next vote will be on the amendment under G3. If accepted, the B5 is non-voting. Under the letter G, Mr Martínek's amendments are, and this proposal concerns - Mr Martínek guards me - the maintenance of cash payments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u71	Madam Secretary's position? [[The rapporteur requests to be patient.]] Excuse me, Mr. Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u72	[[Consulting off the microphone.]] So I'm sorry, that's Amendment PN 5270, reducing the penalty by 90 percent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u73	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting number 22. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 22. Of the present 107, for 49, versus 5. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u74	Thank you. Next, we would deal with the amendment under B5. These are the proposals made by Mrs Golasowská. In this case, it is a proposal to reduce the periodic penalty payments by 95 per cent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u75	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 23. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 23. Of the 107, for 37, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u76	In the tenth time, we will be voting on the amendment under letter B3, once again, Mrs Golasowská. In this case, it is a gradual reduction in contributions, as with the Civic Democratic Party's parliamentary proposal, until December 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u77	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting number 24. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 24. Of the 107, for 48, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u78	The next vote is number eleven. We will be dealing with Amendment B6, once again, Mrs Golasowská. In this case, the deadline for payment of VAT is deferred.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u79	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting number 25. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 25. Of the present 108, for 47, against 2. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u80	The next vote will be dealt with by the amendment under C4. It is Mrs Šafránková's amendments. C4 is the introduction of a free bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u81	Madam Secretary, an opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 26 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 26, present 108, 46 pros, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u82	The next vote is on C3, again Mrs Šafránková. This is a cash payment option, in short.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u83	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting number 27. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 27, 108 present, 46 pros, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u84	The next vote will be dealt with by the amendment under letter F, where Mrs Valachová is registered. Only briefly - it concerns the infirmary, and it is - the Member listens to me - the settlement of the conditions in kindergartens and primary schools.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u85	Opinion? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 28. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 28, 107 present, 98 pros, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u86	Here, Mr Vice-President, I just wanted to warn you that I have announced that if the F is adopted, the E1 is unvoted, so we're cutting the 15th, and we can continue with the E2 vote. Under the letter E are the parliamentary proposals of Mrs Aulická. This amendment E2 regulates the conditions for recognition of medical and electronisation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u87	Opinion, Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 29. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 29, 108 for 67, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u88	Thank you. Furthermore, we would deal with the amendment under G1. The G proposals are from Mr Martínek. This is about maintaining the written presentation of documents, if I say this in short.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u89	Yes. Madam Secretary, an opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting number 30. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 30, 108 present, 48 in favour, versus 1. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u90	The next will be the vote on the amendment under I2. The proposals under letter I are to Mr Jan Skopeček. In short, this proposal leaves the possibility to submit documents in classic form, not only electronic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u91	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting number 31. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 31, 107 present, 50 pros, 2 cons. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u92	We will now vote on the amendment to the G2 proposal, which is Mr Martínek's amendment. Please note that if accepted, I1 is unvoting. So G2 just briefly, what it's about - keeping payments in cash.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u93	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting number 32. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 32, 107 present, 49 in favour, 1 against. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u94	The next vote would be to deal with the amendment under I1. The proposals under point I are Mr Skopeček's amendments, in short, this proposal concerns leaving the possibility of payment in cash.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u95	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 33 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 33, 107 present, 49 in favour, versus 1. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u96	Mr Vice-President, that was the 20th vote that we approved the procedure. I have such an unpleasant feeling and, of course, I'm going to ask my colleagues in the room that we've exhausted all the amendments, but it's probably polite to ask if...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u97	I will ask the rapporteur if all the petitioners of the amendments believe that their proposal has been discussed. Mrs Richterová reporting. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u98	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to say to the vote, actually the key one, to the infirmary, that, given how we didn't actually have a printed procedure in front of us, etc., so we're like the pirát' MPs - I'm not gonna use that obsolescence where you say you wanted to vote differently, we just didn't have time to figure out how it was loaded. We all wanted to vote in favour, and we abstained in the vote 28, Amendment F, Mrs Valachová and Mr Juchelka, so we are glad that it passed, we wanted to be in favour. I wanted to appeal next time, it's a real mess, a vote like this, with the 22 proposals in this way, so that next time we could really wait a few minutes and print it out to all the clubs. I couldn't get my bearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u99	Thank you. I ask you once again, all the petitioners of the amendments believe that their proposal has been voted on. That's right. In that case, all amendments have been voted out. We will vote on the proposal as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's proposal for a law on reducing penalties on social security premiums and the contribution to the employment policy paid by the employer as taxpayers in connection with emergency measures for the epidemic in 2020 and amending certain laws, according to the Parliament's 860, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' This is the chair of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club Jan Chvojka. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. We have seven hours in two minutes, and I think we should vote to make it all happen, even after 7:00. So I would like to propose, on behalf of the ČSSD MPs and the ANO movement, that we take action, both territorially and procedurally, to vote on all proposals today after 7:00 p.m. and in the framework of prevention even after 21:00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u101	Okay, thank you. It is a procedural proposal that I will put to the vote without debate. [[Mrs Černochová approaches the microphone.]] You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u102	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr. Stanjura apologized, so I'm here with priority rights, and I suggest another procedure. I propose that a separate vote be voted on an extension of 21 hours and a second vote from 21 to midnight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u103	I agree. We will therefore now vote on the 19th hour in vote number 34. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 34 of the attendance 107 for 106, against no one. The motion was accepted. Now the vote after the 21st hour in vote number 35, which I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 35 of the present 107 for 59, against 15. This proposal has also been adopted. Now, let's go back to point one. I ask if it is necessary to read the motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies again. I would rather read it: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's proposal for a law on the reduction of social security premiums and the contribution to the employer's state employment policy as taxpayers in connection with emergency measures in the 2020 epidemic and the amendment of certain laws, according to the House of Press 860, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies. " I've started voting number 36 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 36 out of 107 present for 107, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, thank you to the rapporteur. And we will now vote on accompanying resolutions. We couldn't have done that before, because the law had to be passed first. rapporteur, please, accompanying resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u104	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have two accompanying resolutions here. One was delivered by Mr Jurečka, and Mrs Pavla Golasowská signed up for it. The second was presented by Mr Tomáš Martínek, who is introduced in the system under number 5265. I don't know, co-workers and colleagues, if you have the resolutions ahead of you. [[The President: They're already ahead of us, they've all got them.]] They are dealt with, so in my opinion, in that order, Mrs Golasowská, Mr Martínek, we can leave the vote and it is up to you, Mr Vice-President, if you want to read them again. I think it's almost pointless.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u105	I think that no one is insisting now that the materials are being distributed, and we can therefore vote on Mrs Golasowská's proposal for an accompanying resolution. I've started voting number 37 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 37 of the presence 107 for 48, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Now the second proposal, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u106	Yes, so it is Mr Tomáš Martínek's proposal in the system under number 5265. Once again, if you have this proposal and its wording at your disposal, I think we can vote on it without reading the whole resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-001-001.u107	Okay. We're going to decide in the 38 vote that I started, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 38 out of 107 present for 47, against 1. The motion was not accepted. I can end point one. Thank you once again, Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish my point. So now we have to deal with the fact that we have item number two in front of us, and I would like a representative of the YES movement, the chairman of the club, to see if he can find out how the secretary is doing. [[Voice from the O.R.: Okay!]] I apologize to the Deputy Prime Minister for missing her, that's my lack, I haven't seen her in the cabinet, and so we can continue with point 2.
