ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 48th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. To record your participation, I've just checked you out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards, or tell me which one of you is voting with your spare card. I called this meeting following Section 99 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, according to which I declared a state of legislative emergency. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Monday, May 11, this year. We would first proceed to identifying the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint František Kopřiva and Mr Vít Rakušan. I'm asking if there's another proposal for verifiers. If there is no such proposal, I will ask you, newcomers, to register and sign in already. We shall vote on the persons of the verifiers. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's for the proposed verifier. Who's against it? Voting number one. There are 83 Members registered at the moment, for 81, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I note that we have appointed members of František Kopřiva and Vít Rakušan as verifiers of the 48th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I also certify that all Members who are not present at the moment or who are not excused in writing are deemed to be excused under the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs, as we are meeting again in a reduced number. Ladies and gentlemen, on Thursday, 19 March, on the basis of a proposal from the Government, I declared my decision number 41 a state of legislative emergency. In connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, the Government has requested that the following House prints, which it has approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, be discussed in a short hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. This is a government bill on the reduction of premiums on social security, House printing 860; Government bill setting the deadline for the submission of the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2021, House printing 861; and Government bill amending Act No. 134/2016 Coll., on Public Procurement, House printing 862. By decision number 55, I decided to discuss these government proposals in a short session and ordered the House Press 860 to the Social Policy Committee, the House Press 861 to the Budget Committee, the House Press 862 to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I have set an unbreakable deadline for the resolution to be discussed by 13 May 2020 at 13:00. Dear colleagues, in this context, pursuant to § 99 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are in a state of legislative emergency before discussing the proposal for a programme to assess whether the state of legislative emergency persists. I am opening up a debate on this issue and asking if anyone is interested in speaking. I see no one, I end the debate, and we will therefore proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency'. We must vote on legislative emergency before the beginning of the meeting. Then, before the individual laws, we will again vote on the accelerated negotiations. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour that the state of legislative emergency is still going on. Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered 101, for 86, versus 3. The motion was accepted. And so we will now proceed to the agenda of the 48th meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. With priority rights, President Michálek has been the first to sign up at this time. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to remain calm. Please take your seats and watch, proposals will be presented to change the agenda of this meeting. One more time, please, calm down. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u2	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the proposal for a programme on point 3 concerning the Public Procurement Act. I propose that this item be removed from the agenda for today's meeting. And I want to ask, through Mr President, why he decided to discuss this proposal in a state of legislative emergency. Pursuant to Section 99 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, only in exceptional circumstances where the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the State or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage can be discussed. In this case, the President of the Chamber of Deputies - may, I say - may, at the request of the Government, decide to negotiate in a short hearing. I believe that this decision was wrong. And once the Chamber of Deputies has approved this, if this point is actually placed, it will not be eliminated, as I propose, then, of course, I will vote against it. But I think we should let him out of the program and we shouldn't discuss him today. The reasons that lead me to do this are that in four days, our emergency is over. The law will take effect at a time when there will be no more emergency. And the law contains a serious problem that, in the case of competitions with one supplier - these are the most vulnerable, where the most is stolen, cases like Škoda Palace from Prague for 20 billion, for 4 billion crowns, sorry. The Opencard case was made precisely by the fact that it was a tender with one supplier. So it is suggested to launch control mechanisms so as not to verify who the real owner of the firm is, so as not to verify qualifications, so that the firm that has shares in the bearer can get the contract. I think that this is completely scandalous and undignified to this Chamber of Deputies, that the proposal was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies in the regime of legislative emergency. This is a permanent amendment to the Public Procurement Act, which should be discussed in due process and certainly not in a state of legislative emergency. So I propose that this point, paragraph 3, be excluded from the draft agenda for today's meeting. Thank you for your attention and support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u3	Second, Vice-President Pikal applied to the agenda. Then President Jurečka, then President Okamura. All on the agenda of a priority-rights meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members of the Government, Dear Chamber of Deputies, I have a small proposal which I will partly follow up on the proposal of my President. So I'm going to have to be possible because I've noticed that today we have an extremely classified amendment to the Public Procurement Act, and it's precisely in connection with the purchase of protective equipment and the like. [[Noise in the hall.]] [[15.10 hours]] The Chamber of Deputies has placed a point on its agenda in the past on Government information on the purchase of protective equipment during emergency conditions. We still haven't discussed this whole point, the House hasn't received all the information she wants. So I would like to propose that we put this point in front of point 3 of the draft programme, of course, only if that point is not eliminated, as the President suggested. I ask for support, so that we have to discuss and discuss the questions that would have to be raised about the law anyway, because I think we have all noticed various discussions and cases about how and what protective equipment was purchased, so that this debate goes away before we discuss the law on public procurement itself, because there will still be a lot of other topics to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. Another with priority rights, President Jurečka, will be prepared by Vice-President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u6	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, two or three members of the government, four. I would like to say clearly for KDU-ČSL that I understand that, in a state of legislative emergency, we will not discuss this point number 1, where we are discussing how to help companies, support, maintain jobs, and deal with social insurance issues for employees. In part, I may still understand the logic of that point number 2, when the government comes up with a timetable for approving the state budget, although I think that this shift will not bring any major advantage, because it can come here in November, December another possible wave of covideo, and we will have to update the budget next year as we have done twice this year. What I do not understand at all, and I would very much like to have an explanation here really explain why the amendment to the Public Procurement Act is to be discussed in a state of legislative emergency. When I read the reasoning, I didn't find any argument at all about why we should discuss it now within 24 hours when we learned last night that such an amendment was discussed by the government and that it was heading here. I agree that there is a need to amend the Public Procurement Act, which is what we talked about. There was also a promise that a government proposal was being prepared, which should arrive in the Chamber of Deputies during the autumn. I would understand if the government coalition came as it did last week within lex covid and asked the other parties and said: we want to discuss this in due course, we want to shorten the deadlines. As representatives of the opposition, we said: yes, we will meet this, we will do it in five, six weeks. But I don't understand why you want to discuss it today at second and third reading. And I also don't understand, of course, the substantive changes you're making there. Why are we coming back here? I remember Prime Minister Andrej Babiš in 2013/2014, in Sobotkův's government, saying: we do not want this state to buy from people or from companies that do not have a clear ownership structure. He was what he said: we want to end this corrupt environment. And now this government is actually coming up with an amendment to the law, where it is easy to buy within JŘBU from companies that do not have a clear ownership structure etc. Please, explain. Explain it to the people who have been asking me that since yesterday. They don't understand this turnover, this change. But again, I don't think it's part of the legislative emergency. I could still understand if it was at the end of March. At the end of March, in an emergency, when shopping was running. If you come and say: we want to adjust some parametric changes so that we can follow the Public Procurement Act. But now all the shopping is over. The government itself said that there would be no more purchases from China at this point. We have an emergency on Monday, so why do you want to sell this in a state of legislative emergency?. Please, explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. However, I would return the debate - I respect the priority rights, please, try to stick to the topic of the agenda, we will discuss the legislative emergency before each point individually afterwards. Now Vice-President Okamura, then President Faltýnek - priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u8	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I would comment under the SPD on the agenda for this meeting, namely that the government, in an emergency, has included the amendment to the Public Procurement Act. We in the SPD fundamentally disagree with this being discussed here in a state of legislative emergency, because the law is designed to give a cone of possible corruption. In the section on the course of the selection procedure, the government proposal states that without publication in crisis situations, the possibility of the contracting authority - which is the State or the Ministry - is to require from the supplier, for example, impunity, debt-freeness in taxes and the possibility to require proof of suppliers' owners. Well, that's a really incredible suggestion. Furthermore, this amendment, proposed by the government, abolishes this obligation when only a particular supplier can fulfil the contract. This measure, of course, can lead, in the opinion of the SPD, to corruption. And this is not a solution to a crisis situation. We cannot support such an amendment in this wording as the SPD, which is why, by the way, we also have a prepared amendment which will be discussed today, in which the possibility of the contracting authority, that is to say, the State, to demand impunity from the supplier, the debt-freeness of taxes and the possibility to require proof of suppliers' owners. I don't understand why the government wants public procurement to compete with companies that don't have absolutely clear owners. I don't understand. Well, the only way I'd understand it is if it was someone who was planning on doing some sort of corruption act or passing orders on to some weird company. Well, that, of course, is the explanation offered to anyone who reads this. Of course, we understand that the Coronavirus is a situation where it is necessary to act quickly and productively, but even in such a crisis situation it is not possible for a supplier to participate in supplies to the State that does not meet these basic qualification criteria. Moreover, the government itself voted that the emergency would end on May 17th. So the government itself is voting until May 17th, today we have May 13th, and at the same time, four days before the end of the emergency, it proposes that billion-dollar contracts, or hundreds-million-dollar contracts, etc., can compete on the basis of unclear parameters. So we propose to exclude this bill from the government's pen from the agenda. And we think it would be better to discuss it at a normal meeting to go through all three readings, so it's time to talk about it, so it's time to remind the government that there's enough room to explain what it means, what it's all about, and that the public can see what the real reasons are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u9	Now with priority rights, President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u10	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, Mr President. I'm just making a brief statement. We had a rather long MP club today, we missed the press conference, so unfortunately the information didn't get out. However, as far as this law on public procurement is concerned, our parliamentary club has decided that we will not support a legislative emergency, and that is the problem that Mr Jurečka, Okamura and others are certainly going to be resolved. This means that this law will be discussed in a normal legislative process, first at the next meeting starting on 26 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. So if no one with priority rights, I have Mr Kupka's application here for a draft agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u12	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I applied with the proposal to eliminate the last proposed amendment to the Act on Public Procurement, in order to apply that, as it was submitted, it would actually mean declaring the end of any fight against corruption in the Czech Republic. It would be green for companies that committed theft, corruption, not traceable owners, etc. I brát it, then, that the proposal to exclude from the agenda is being filed by other MPs. I am pleased that in this case, the coalition has listened to the clear criticism of all opposition parties. This would really be a foul for transparent selection procedures in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u13	Well, thank you. On the agenda is Mr. Václav Klaus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be as monothematic as all my honored colleagues, because I am also against corruption. I don't know who's here for corruption, so it's obvious. I would like to place on the agenda a point that I called stopping chaos in schools. I'll justify it. Minister Plaga has such a strategy that, in fact, in his ministerial capacity, it is best to wait it out somehow, trying not to make personal or political enemies. When the math is canceled because it's heavy, it's canceled, and that's more or less how the education department works. However, what has happened since May 25 in schools is a pardon for pure chaos. I've got a kid in first grade, and two days ago, we were instructed to take up. There's this one dimension of the minister - who doesn't want to, doesn't have to - who, of course, breaks it all up. So there will be no teachers here, just a kind of assistant with a governess, there won't be a group. Kids sit at lunch until they get a mass order. Probably to ritualize the corona buns there. There can be only a certain percentage of pupils in school, so the poor fifth graders won't make it because the first and second graders who had priority already took over. And I'm not criticizing our school, it's just following instructions. Plus, there's a lot of schools that don't open at all. We, the Tricolor movement, believe that whether schools open normally or not open at all. We're on the side of those who want people to come back to work. That's why we're going to support the reversion of the infirmary to the original level, because we think people are supposed to work, and we're going to encourage the students to go back to school normally. I mean, how's it gonna be real? Be at our school with very high probability all children will be perfectly healthy. Then there's no reason for the teacher not to be there, the kids didn't really learn and there was a learning process, and Elinka could go to the bathroom for an odd minute, not just barrels, or how the arrangements are there. And if God forbid some kid gets infected, there's no reason for them to sit in any subgroups, sit around, take off their drapes, and put on their drapes, and they haven't learned anything yet, because there won't be any teachers. That's much better when Eliška and her grandmother go and feed the chickens in the morning and then make their first-year-old by the book in the afternoon and read a piece of syllable. So if that point is included, I would like to read the resolution that I would like to adopt on this. This is - firstly - the Chamber of Deputies obliges the government to stop chaos in primary schools. Secondly, the Chamber of Deputies obliges the government to motivate people to return to work and pupils to the normal teaching process. So these are my points that, I think, affect this country as well as corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. With priority rights, Minister Dostálová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u16	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I just consider it necessary, because we are probably in agreement that the Public Procurement Act will be discussed in a proper meeting. On the other hand, I really reject the comments that have been made here, something about fouls and the like, because that is completely nonsense. We responded to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies that we should prepare as quickly as possible to simplify the procurement in the event of a rapid purchase of, for example, protective equipment. We responded to the resolution of the Central Crisis Staff, which actually identified us - the MIT - to remove the administrative obstacles to the negotiated procedure without publication. And let me just give you a very simple example. The law really concerns what we had today, only the negotiated procedure without publication, so that we can remove bureaucracy and administrative obstacles. [[Nesroz.]] What's going on? The European Commission has recommended that all States apply the negotiated procedure without publication upon completion of the emergency situation. The European States shall mostly have negotiated procedures without publication in accordance with the European Directive. Unfortunately, the Czech law once again used gold-plating in the context of these laws and put matters beyond the obligations of the European directive. And so the situation will be that if there is one single supplier on the market, which will be very interesting, then the other states will be able to enter into a contract within the hour. Since we have many obligations in the law, such as the tax document or the underpayments, social and health insurance, only the issue of such a document has a period of up to 30 days, we have an obligation to book shares, other countries have no obligation to book shares. Booking shares before signing a contract is a matter of six months. So we responded so quickly so that we would not deprive the Czech Republic of certain capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u17	Thank you. I have priority rights here. President Bartošek, then President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, we're dealing with whether it's in a legislative emergency or not in a legislative emergency, but we're totally missing out on what the law is about and what the government came up with. Sounds to me like you guys tried to make it work. It didn't work out, so now you're pulling the handbrake and you want to send it to the legislative process normally. This means, instead of going the way of transparency, due consideration and commentary procedure, there is a play here to see if it is necessary to chase through the Chamber of Deputies in an accelerated reading or not. It seems to me that we are coming back with this move, which was presented by the YES movement, back to the 1990s and the way of the eclipse. Instead of going the way of transparency, it is about the fact that so many things will actually be allowed that we have dealt with here for two parliamentary periods, that simply for the ANO movement it has now proved better to reverse and make the market more transparent. And I think that's wrong. This isn't about whether it's in a legislative emergency, it's about what you had the courage to put forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u19	President Stanjura with priority rights, then President Rakušan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor. In principle, I agree with my previous speaker. Madam Secretary here complained about the state of the law on public procurement. Mirror, Madam Secretary, look in the mirror who's to blame. For seven years, the YES movement has been under the Ministry of Regional Development. I think there were three ladies there, you took turns in that position. Who are you complaining about? On yourself! At least say I did it wrong, I'm sorry. Now I see that what I or my predecessor put through here wasn't right. - First of all. And I completely agree that the law cannot be corrected in the House. The fact that we are not going to discuss it today is good, but it is not actually possible to discuss and support it in a proper legislative process. The only thing you can do about it is pull it off and write some normal law. Because that's actually what he's saying, first of all, you don't have... You were talking about some protective equipment. Where is there anything in this bill about protective aids? Where's the time limit that's extraordinary? It's for ages, for everything, it doesn't have to prove anything, and Minister Vojtěch can do whatever he wants. Notice how he reacts. This is unbelievable. He'll know the firm gave him a fake certificate. Instead of acting out that he was cheated, he says, "Don't jump on it, we gave them an exception." What kind of solution is that? And now he wants to legalize it so that this kind of act is actually legal. That's the contents of the bill, nothing else. So it's not going to be today, that's good, but I suggest we don't deal with it next time. Let the government come up with some kind of normal bill that can be discussed in a matter of fact, not this pasquila.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u21	Thank you. Now President Rakušan, then President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u22	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will follow up on my previous speaker, my colleague Stanjura. I thank the Minister or President Faltýnek by your means that you have decided not to discuss the law here today, but that is not enough. The law should not be discussed in the Chamber of Deputies at all, because the law is wrong. And Madam Secretary, if I may, your arguments are simply false. If you say you need it for an emergency, let's look at Section 73 of the law you propose - they will not deal with the qualification and professional competence of the firm. Paragraph 48/7 - property will not be dealt with. After all, you are merely creating an alibi for the way in which the purchase of aids has been carried out in recent times, and you want to make this a standard for a period that is not bound to an emergency. I would like to emphasise this to all those who are interested in this law. It's not bound to an emergency, it's a condition where we need to buy some supplies quickly. This law would still apply here. And that law simply contradicts all the anti-corruption tendencies that the government has long supported. But I say anti-corruption measures don't show up on billboards, they show up in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. Now President Bartošek, then President Pekarová Adamová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Once again, I've decided to step up to this point. All laws are important to make this republic work and, if possible, make life easier for people. There are laws that we can adopt in an accelerated reading, and there are laws that I believe are absolutely important for them to go through a standard legislative process. I believe that this law on public procurement is one of them. You can, of course, then come up with § 90 etc. and others, but if you don't do the standard legislative process, you don't process the RIA, you don't take into account any corrupt risks and other, which this process contains - and you didn't - I consider this to be the fatal failure of this government. And I ask you to withdraw this bill from the Chamber of Deputies' meeting, to withdraw it as petitioners and to allow this bill to be passed through a standard legislative process. Then a platform is created to have fun and how to find a solution. But at this point, I see it as an abuse of crisis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u25	Thank you. Madam President Pekarová Adamová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u26	Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am joining the proposal to withdraw the proposal, virtually. to call for the withdrawal of the proposal, and I would like to ask Minister Vojtěch directly, whose ministry has the most doubts as to whether he is measuring all the same subway. Why do I ask that? Because when we commemorate 2018, by the end of 2018, Minister Vojtěch appealed to the Director of the General Faculty Hospital in Prague, Mrs Jurásková due to public procurement errors. He also called off the director of Bulovka, the director of other faculty hospitals. The minister therefore has a completely different standard to himself and his ministry for his subordinate organizations. Minister, when can we expect your resignation?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u27	That's all of the priority rights for the moment. Chairman Kováčik. Please. Then, the Minister of Health, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, have a good afternoon. We were one of those who demanded such a solution for exclusively these exceptional states, but it turned out as always, something else came forward. We wanted material reserves, for example, to be included in this in some way, which should buy the material for state institutions, so that it would be available when the second wave might come. However, in order to avoid further long discussions, the KSČM Club will also encourage this item to be excluded from the programme. I hope everyone understands that this point is not going to be discussed here today and that we are going to do the normal work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u29	Thank you. With priority rights, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in response to President Pekarová Adamová. This is not your decision, with all due respect, Madam President. And if you're using the analogy, look at the comparison of the time and also the comparison of what these steps were done on the basis of the fact that there was actually some objective investigation, there was a police intervention on Bulovka and so on. So I don't think you're really overreacting, I think you're talking about something you don't know anything about. And what you're doing now, both the opposition and some media, will result in no one wanting to buy a mask here in the future, if, in crisis situations, the situation is completely different from the standard time when the standard market works, so that the purchases that were intended to do one thing in order to protect the health and lives of our paramedics from massive epidemics in hospitals at all costs. In short, if this is how you approach it, I think that no one will want anything to do with the purchase of these protective equipment today, and that will really be one of the things that you will achieve. If that's what you want, if that's how you want the system to work in front of some second massive wave of the pandemic, that's your problem, but it's your responsibility too!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u31	President Kalousek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u32	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Health Minister, you told President Pekarová Adamová that she wasn't deciding, which is, of course, true, and she didn't say she was going to make any decisions either. She asked you very politely when you were going to resign because she was drawing from some historical political culture, when simply the degree of error and the rate of the thieves that took place at your ministry just at any time in the past, until the government of the ANO movement, logically led to the resignation of the relevant minister. He just had to resign. You said that the only objective of these actions was to protect the citizens of the Czech Republic. I don't even suspect from your naive point of view that you really think so, but that group of aesthetics you surrounded yourself with in the Ministry of Health's shopping team had a different goal. She had a goal to drip - and she did. Because by comparing the prices for which the Ministry of the Interior bought and for which the Ministry of Health purchased, the comparison of contracts that you concluded with dubious La Factory companies simply makes it clear that there is an incredible way of stealing from you. Nor is there an absolutely exceptional situation - and I realize the pressure you are under and the exceptional situation you are in - nor does the exceptional situation justify stealing public institutions. Even in an absolutely exceptional situation, we must take care of the proper economy. The bill submitted by the government on a proposal by Minister Dostálová is a bill that could be called "shut down, we want to steal faster." So I will return again to the question asked by President Pekarová Adamová whether you intend to resign or not. Of course, she doesn't decide, she just asked you nicely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u33	At this point, with priority rights, I don't see anyone applying. The agenda shall be submitted in writing by Mr Kopřiva.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u34	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to propose the inclusion of a point which would be called Information Finance Minister on the negotiation of funds for the recovery of the Czech economy at EU level, which I would require to include after the already fixed points, but I do not insist on any particular time. [[15.40 hours]] My point is that today an article has appeared in the Hospodářské noviny, the content of which has subsequently been confirmed by the Ministry of Finance itself, that the Minister has not participated in any of the seven videoconferencing ministers of the EU Member States, which, in the current situation, is a little alarming in the sense that the Czech Republic is still among the net beneficiaries and from the means that we can draw relatively small funds from the packages being discussed there. And they've actually already agreed on a loan for cursarbeit, which should be some 350 billion. The euro, which will be divided between the Member States, and this month it will be a fund that we do not know about, but it is the Minister who should know as a gesture minister. According to information from the European Commission, it should be 1 to maybe 2 beats. EUR, which is certainly not negligible, and I think that the Czech economy has this recovery, or that it would help to revive the Czech economy. In fact, we as Members do not have much information about the negotiations. We would like to trust the Minister, but if she does not participate, as she has confirmed, I am a little concerned about the impact the Czech Republic has on the redistribution, and I am afraid that the government will lack all the necessary information. So for this reason, I propose the Information of the Finance Minister on negotiating funds for the recovery of the Czech economy at EU level.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u35	Thank you. Mr Lipavský is also on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u36	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I propose to include as the first item in this meeting the Government's information on the planned rescue of Smartwings. I have already proposed this here last time at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies and I propose it again because we are talking about 2.5 billion. Czech koruna from taxpayers' money and from our point of view a completely immoral rescue of one business entity with a strange property structure that leads to China or to a tax haven in the Netherlands, beyond all other aids received by Czech companies. It is repeated regularly that Smartwings are a strategic company. This is definitely not a strategic company, it is a certain rest of the lost fame of the Czechoslovak Airlines, or ČSA, and charter airlines to holiday destinations. I have been giving quite extensive interpelation to the Minister of Transport and Industry and Trade, I have been interpelling to the Minister of Finance, I have been interpelling to the Prime Minister, but these answers will come in a long time, and we know that the current financial crisis is putting some pressure on this rescue to come very soon. So I think the only way to really talk about how it's going to be handled is by 2.5 billion. Czech crowns from the state budget are here for plenary. In order to list the reasons why this company should not, in addition to all other aid, receive this money or guarantees or other capital input, I will just state that it is simply not a strategic firm. From the point of view of ČSA, Prague is not a transfer hub, it does not operate any key domestic transport, there is currently no property share of the Czech Republic and most of the flights, the largest quantities, are flights for holidays. This is a very sensitive matter, but aviation is a very competitive and market environment, so it is definitely to inspire fear in citizens that they will not get on vacation, it is completely fake. There is no strategic importance for the Czech Republic. Minister, absent Minister of Industry and Trade, Deputy Prime Minister Havlíček said that Smartwings are a business card for the Czech Republic. That's total nonsense. ČSA as such appear at the end of the quality of all the rankings and Smartwings do not appear there at all. Secretary Benešová had an excellent statement - she said that every businessman should have a certain cotton wool, and if you look at who owns Smartwings, I think that's where the cotton wool is. The Czech part that still has it taken to the Netherlands to optimize income, there are hobby markets, some land, real estate, and the other half belong to the Chinese state. This is really from the Czech budget we will subsidize the company from a half-owned country that has 1.5 billion. Inhabitants? So this is what I think is absolutely appropriate for government officials to explain here. I would very much like the Prime Minister to explain his ties to Mr Šimáně, because it's not just about being photographed somewhere at the wedding, it's probably nobody's business. But the Smartwings planes are serviced at Avia Prime, which is half owned by the Hartenberg Fund. So I guess we don't have to wonder who the end benefit of this fund is. And I'm also wondering if, if the Czech money is going to be saved by Smartwings, if the six jets that Smartwings runs are going to go there, if that's the strategic infrastructure, to run small jet planes. Of course, I'm a little shy when I have to make some kind of envy for wealth here, but everyone suffers from the crisis, and it's good to ask themselves these questions. And we're talking about Czech taxpayers' money. So I propose this point, and I believe you will support it so that you can explain to us how it will be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u37	Thank you. President Kalousek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u38	Thank you for the floor. Please allow me to support Mr Lipavský's proposal. This is a really serious matter, and I dare say it as a government minister who faced the same problem as the Smartwings shareholders today in 2011. At the time, ČSA was still state. We had three choices - either put 2 billion in it. from our own, i.e. from the state, because it was state, which we assessed as throwing money away, or putting it into bankruptcy, or finding an investor. That was three choices, there were no other options. We were glad that we found an investor and that we didn't have to audition because we had to invest 2 billion in it. State money would simply be an irresponsible waste of taxpayers' money. Today, the shareholders of Smartwings are in exactly the same situation. They're either going to give it 1.5 to 2 billion. It's not like they don't have a place to go, or they're gonna audition, or they're gonna find an investor. But they don't want either of these three options that we had at our disposal at the time. They're trying to get the state's money involved. Sorry, it's a robbery! And we should talk about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u39	Thank you. Mrs Richterová is next on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a proposal for a new point in this meeting for you, a proposal to talk about a solution for those groups of people who have been forgotten during the current crisis. It's something we've repeatedly mentioned for the pirát here. The only thing this House accepted was support for the people who worked on the deals, paid insurance, paid insurance, and got sickbay. But there are still tens and tens of thousands of people who worked on the deals, paid insurance premiums and did not receive a small compensation contribution and are in a lot of trouble, many of them. Unfortunately, this government has also forgotten to deal with a more complex group, namely people working on a business license who are employed. Unfortunately, Mr Onderka has read the amendment, which has so complexly tried to correct his party at least a little so that the compensation bonus for self-employed persons is at least possible when a person is employed, e.g. an agreement on work activities as a teacher when teaching small-time. But again, although I am glad that this mention of this too hard measure has succeeded as the pirát, it still does not solve the whole wide group of self-employed people, who have had a separate activity as their main income, they could prove that they have lost it, but because they have a small job, they are unlucky. [[15.50 hours]] And the government coalition here also refused to forgive health insurance payments to people without taxable income, which is the only option for them if they lost their small incomes, which in the vast majority of these people had, is to register at the trade office and for that period of payment forgiveness to be businessmen. I want to focus your attention on contractors who have not received any allowance, and on self-employed workers with little work. I would like to point out that today I asked again about the Social Policy Committee about the benefits of extra immediate assistance, because that is what remains of these people when they are already at the bottom. And yes, it improved the drawing, but only about 50 percent of the applications submitted, because they are still, logically, individually considered applications, very strict, and there is much to be done. And since it does not seem fair to us in our parliamentary club that the people who worked properly are simply watching other groups receive the contributions and at least some compensation, and they have nothing, so if this point is passed, the point "groups to which the government has forgotten" I would suggest in the resolution that we call on the government to find agreement on how some lower but still some compensatory contribution to support those above mentioned groups of people, people who have worked, and now they are not entitled to virtually nothing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u41	Thank you. Mrs Černochová is also on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I originally wanted to ask for the same point as the last time that was about the lead, because unfortunately, the Minister here misinformed us that this was not going to be discussed. It's been discussed. I'm not going to place it, I'm just appealing to the minister to keep an eye on him as his colleagues at the resort inform him. I appeal to you with a request to place a new point, like the third - Information of Minister Plaga about the reopening of primary schools. Part of what I wanted to say has already been mentioned here by Mr Klaus. I would just add that we were given as mayor's methodology to ensure the operation of the first grades and ninth grade primary schools. We received a manual to protect the health and operation of primary schools in the period until the end of the school year, but unfortunately we did not get a clear answer to some of our questions. I understand that ministers are not 100% here today, that they are taking turns following some agreement. That is why I would at least ask Minister Maláčová if she could watch over this point within the government, unless you put me in charge of how the preparatory classes will be dealt with. Because in accordance with Article 47 of Law No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, secondary, higher vocational and other education, it is a school law, run by some primary schools established by municipalities of the so-called preparatory class. And the manuals issued by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports include files of health and safety guidelines for schools from kindergarten to youth homes and leisure centres, but none of these manuals mention the preparatory classes. So the directors don't know if the preparatory classes will open. It plays a pretty important role in determining just the number of children in those groups of fifteen. I therefore ask the Minister if it would be possible in this regard to ask Minister Plaga to issue a clear methodology for this and to issue the methodology as soon as possible, because we are all preparing to open these schools at city hall, preparing for this and the directors are very, very anxious for this information. So I formally propose this point as the third point today. If you don't put him in my place, please, this Minister Maláčová, if she could see to it that the preparatory classes are resolved. In this spirit, I informed Minister Plaga, interspersed, e-mailed him, but I haven't received any information from him yet. Madam Secretary, I'm gonna reschedule the interpelation so she can have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-000-000.u43	Thank you. At this point, I've given the floor to each of the minutes of the meeting. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in a performance on the agenda. [[Gong.]] If I do not see anyone, we will proceed to the vote on individual proposals. Before today's session, the House of Deputies did not have a grémium. We do not have any kind of proposal here, so we will follow the order of the individual proposals. First of all, there is the proposal by President Michálek to remove the point to which other speakers then joined. The removal of the item from the agenda concerning the amendment of the Public Procurement Act. We all know what we're voting on. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number three. 107 Members are registered, for 101, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the proposal from Vice-President Pikal, who proposes... [[Attention off the microphone.]] In that case, it takes back this proposal, as we have resolved it by a previous vote. Then several speakers followed without a specific proposal. We will therefore vote on the proposal by Mr Klaus, who proposes the inclusion of a new point of Stopping chaos in schools. First of all, the inclusion of a new point. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number four. There's 101 logged in, 43 against no one. The motion was not accepted. There is also Mr Kopřiva's proposal to include a new point in the Information of the Ministry of Finance on the negotiation of European Union funds for the recovery of the economy. If that's what I'm saying. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's up for this point. Who's against it? Voting number five. 103 Members are registered, for 35, against 3. The motion was not accepted. Mr Lipavský proposes to include a new item in the Government's Information on the planned rescue of Smartwings. So first of all, we are voting on the inclusion of a new item. Initiating vote. Who's up for a new point. Who's against it? Voting number 6. 101 Members are registered, for 46, against no one. The motion was not accepted. [[16.00 hours]] Mrs Richterová proposes to include a new point - a solution to the situation of the groups that have been forgotten. So I wrote down, so I actually started her proposal. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's up for this point. Who's against it? Voting number 7, there are 102 Members registered, for 48, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Finally, there is Mrs Černochová's proposal to include a new point in the Information of the Minister of Education Robert Plaga on the reopening of primary schools. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 8, registered is 101, for 54, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will therefore vote on the solid inclusion of this point as a third point in today's negotiations. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 9, there are 106 Members, for 50, against 3. The motion was not accepted. Anyway, I feel like it's gonna turn out exactly the way you suggested it would be the third point because we disabled one. These are all the proposals that have been made on the agenda. And now we will vote on the draft agenda for the meeting as a whole. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of the agenda, as amended, which we have approved. Who's against it? Voting number 10, registered is 106, for 100, against no one. The motion was accepted. I'm saying we've approved the agenda for this meeting. Opening point number
