ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-002-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, and some other laws in connection with flat-rate taxes /house printing 922/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-002-002.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce to you the bill amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, and other laws in connection with the so-called flat-rate tax.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-002-002.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg the dignified atmosphere of this law. Those celebrating the compensation bonus for the contractors, please go to the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-002-002.u4	The proposal constitutes the fulfilment of the requirement to extend the institute of flat-rate tax, which is one of the points of the government's programming declaration, and at the same time the implementation of the scheme for the reduction of the administrative burden on entrepreneurs for the period 2019 to 2022, in which the government approved the flat-rate tax project. In addition to the amendment to the Income Tax Act, the proposal includes amendments to social security insurance laws and health insurance, trade law and the Act on budgetary determination of taxes. [[9.50 hours]] The current system of flat-rate taxation is not much used, it will be replaced by a new conceptual regime that will be more helpful to taxpayers. The proposal is aimed at a selected group of taxpayers of income tax on natural persons with income from a separate activity for which a significant reduction in administrative intensity is justified, i.e., only taxpayers with income from a separate activity not exceeding 800 000 may enter the flat-rate scheme. CZK, which are not therefore taxpayers of value added tax. I would like to stress that this is not the original proposal from the Ministry of Finance workshop. The Ministry of Finance proposed with revenue up to 1 million. The crown, that made sense to me, because 1 mile. CZK is the border where VAT is already compulsory, but we were forced to retreat within the coalition agreement to our coalition partner social democracy, who wanted to reduce the amount, so 800 thousand. In the end, this compromise was the koruna. The flat-rate income tax will not only be paid by natural persons but also by public insurance, in one monthly payment sent to the tax authorities. So there will be no obligation. So, with one contribution, a businessman, a self-employed person, will send a payment of CZK 5 740 for 2021, and in this payment, CZK 100 will have income tax, which is 1.7 percent of the contribution, then there will be an amount of CZK 2 514, which is a minimum health premium, which is 43,8 percent of the contribution, and finally a minimum social premium plus 15%, because most of them pay minimum social insurance, which is 54.5 percent of the contribution, so they will have a better pension if I say it simply. The advantage of this flat-rate contribution is that, if volunteering is a self-employed person fulfilling these conditions, if he decides to voluntarily enter the flat-rate contribution, it is not an obligation, in which case only this contribution is paid monthly, he does not submit any tax returns, no accounting officer processing tax records is in danger of having any tax control in the future. I think what's easier than a flat-rate allowance. Please help push through and let this proposal through the first reading, so that we can actually achieve that this significant administrative change will be effective from 1 January 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-002-002.u5	Thank you. And now the rapporteur for the first reading, to which Mr Petr Venhoda was designated, should take the floor, but I have read his apology for family reasons for today's meeting. So I'm calling on another member of the budget committee to the fullest. So, Madam President, but we will have to vote on the amendment of the rapporteur for the first reading. So I've called in my colleagues from the lobby, and I think we're qualified to vote for a change in the rapporteur. I therefore begin the vote and ask who agrees with the rapporteur's change in order to become Mrs Vostrá the rapporteur for first reading. Anyone against it? Voting number 5, registered 153, for 127, against no one. You have been approved by a constitutional majority, rapporteur. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-002-002.u6	Yes, thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me speak on behalf of you in a short intelligence report. I'm not gonna stretch this out because the secretary already told me everything that matters. I just think what we need to discuss and what we're going to discuss on the budget committee, and I suppose you're going to have to think about it, too, that's the amount that came out of the government, that is. The $800,000, because frankly, if we're all here to simplify the tax system, this amount doesn't really suck. Logic would have either the million, which is a VAT bond, or 600 thousand, which is an electronic EET bond, but we're introducing an 800 thousand that doesn't work. But I think it's more of a professional debate and to discuss it calmly on the expert committee. So I, as rapporteur, recommend releasing this press to second reading and ordering the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-002-002.u7	Thank you. I'm just gonna read one additional apology. The Minister of Health, Adam Vojtěch, apologizes today until 11 o'clock for work reasons. I am opening a general debate and I have two applications with priority rights. Vice-President Okamura was the first to report, then President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-002-002.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a bill before us to introduce a flat-rate tax for small businessmen, that is, what I have been calling for and conjuring governments for seven years since I have been in politics. The aim is to simplify the business of businessmen. To begin with, let me quote a piece of the survey in the media of 8 October 2013, seven years ago, in which I and the representatives of the ANO movement responded. At the request of the journalist "should be introduced so called. cash registers?" The spokesperson answered YES - I quote: No, we do not want to burden businessmen and small entrepreneurs. - As we know, the practice was completely different and the ANO movement broke this promise flagrantly. My answer was completely different. I said - quote: We are for other, more revolutionary solutions, selected trades and crafts should be able to pay some flat-rate payment and then do business without further bureaucracy, contributions, without accounting. We must motivate citizens to self-employ, which is an important method in combating unemployment. - The end of my seven-year-old quote. So seven years have passed. Despite promises not to raise taxes, not to burden businessmen, not to introduce register cash registers, the promises of the ANO movement have changed to the exact opposite. But, in time, my idea of introducing a flat-rate tax for small businessmen has become a subject acceptable to more and more parties, and we have here, in the end, after my several years of efforts to make a government proposal. I am glad that Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová finally changed her mind, because this spring, my proposal to introduce a flat-rate tax refused. Today, therefore, almost no one refuses a flat-rate tax for small businessmen except for ČSSD. And even the social democracy doesn't say a complete no, but it is just looking for reasons to block the implementation of the law through the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which is supposedly unable to implement the law into its systems. Sadly, however much it is an excuse, because the Social Democrats, the ČSSD, do not love businessmen, so at the same time they are probably right, because the inability of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs led by the ČSSD is proverbial and their information system, while absorbing hundreds of millions of crowns on various innovations, is still virtually ineffective. The flat-rate tax law is to apply from 1 January 2021. That would be a really great revolution, an anti-bureaucratic revolution, and we would consider it a great success for the SPD, because it doesn't really matter whether we push through the SPD ourselves or in cooperation with the government. However, in view of the call for social democracy, let us hope that obstruction of realization in practice will not make it impossible. The proposed form of the law is, of course, a compromise, because, as the Minister of Finance also said, ČSSD fought for as few tradesmen as possible, so the ČSSD wanted to prevent as many tradesmen as possible from having less bureaucracy so that they could do better. [[10.00 hours]] As a compromise we also take the present very large form of law, i.e. that we have a single monthly sum of CZK 5 740 per month for all applicants, the flatbed. For the smallest businessmen, businessmen with high costs and low added value or for example laborers working as self-employed persons, who make money with poverty on health and social insurance, it is, of course, a more expensive model, and vice versa for a businessman in the IT sector, which has 800 thousand on turnover. A year's minimum cost, on the other hand, is lucrative earnings. That's why we're saying that we've been taking this as a compromise proposal, and it's definitely, overall, the flat-rate tax, I said, I've been pushing it here for seven years, so it's a step in the right direction in principle. In the future, we would therefore suggest some layering, as was the case for example. for flat-rate expenditure on payers with, say, high cost of directing, material, etc., and, on the contrary, on tradesmen who have only minimal costs. For small companies with high fixed directing, high costs and low profit, such as small family rural construction companies and the like, we would like to allow entry into the flat-rate regime even with higher turnover. And we'd like to see the state lower the chosen flat rate to a minimum. The aim should not only be to raise money, but to allow the unemployed, for example, to employ themselves without large costs and without bureaucracy immediately, such as occasional work for their neighbours and so on, which will certainly now be an important thing in the crisis and with higher unemployment coming. Thank you for your attention and hopefully the proposal will pass without a problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-002-002.u9	Good morning, honourable Members. I thank my colleague Okamur. President Miroslav Kalousek will now speak with priority rights, then Mr Skopeček with priority rights, the others I am registering. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-002-002.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary urged me to be brief, so I will really be brief. I just want to declare my support for this proposal. If there wasn't a principle of volunteering, I'd have a problem with that, because it would be a mandatory minimum tax. That is what we had in the legal system between 2003 and 2006, and I have always considered it a great injustice to force someone to pay income tax, even if they do not have income. But if it's on a voluntary basis, it's perfectly okay. Everyone decides whether the comfort in administration is worth making a commitment to pay a minimum of 100 crowns of income tax. I want to appeal to the Social Democrats if they haven't considered the limit yet, we will definitely propose it at second reading. It doesn't make any sense, the 800 grand. There's a simple answer to the question of why a million. A million is the threshold for compulsory payment of VAT, i.e. I still have to charge over a million. I don't have to charge up to a million, I'm not a VAT payer. Why 800 thousand. He doesn't ask why 800 thousand, there's only one answer: because a million seems too much to us. And that really seems like a little less logical to me. So I'm going to ask you to reconsider. I'm sure we'll propose to return the million at second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-002-002.u11	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Before I give the floor with priority rights to Skopečka colleague, Mr Ondřej Veselý is making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-002-002.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, I will be very brief. As the secretary rightly said, it was some sort of coalition compromise. We had the proposal that Mrs Vostrá, or the chairman of the committee, was talking about. We had a proposal for 600 grand. And we've retreated to 800 in a compromise. So that's why we were looking for logic in what the chairman of the committee said, i.e. that the limit should be somewhere where it already has legal logic. Such a brief answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-002-002.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now with priority rights, Mr. Colleague Skopeček. You have the floor, Mr Munzar will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-002-002.u14	Thank you for the word, I will also be very short, there is an ambition to make this material by 10:30. I certainly don't have the ambition to delay it, because it's a proposal that I think is right. I would like to draw attention to the fact that it was the ODS, which had put flat-rate tax in public space at all, so we certainly support this principle. We want to support, in particular, small entrepreneurs, medium-sized entrepreneurs, too, but this is particularly the case for smaller entrepreneurs. Of course, we advise that we want to change parameters. We are very sorry that from the original plan, when it was expected to involve tradesmen with a turnover of up to CZK million, the government comes with an amount of 800 thousand. Like my colleague Kalousek, I do not consider it rational. It is logical to leave it at the limit necessary to register VAT, or a million crowns. In our view, too, this amount, after all these years, has not changed, I mean the million-dollar amount for the necessary VAT registration, surpassed, and because of inflation, we think it should be higher. So we will not only be making amendments to increase the limit from 800 thousand. to a million, but without a doubt, we will propose, within the framework of the amendments, a shift in the VAT registration threshold so that the limit can be higher for the flat-rate tax. There is also a need to mention the negatives of the proposal. If you calculate for which groups of traders the flat-rate tax is paid, as proposed by the government, it is unfortunately paid for the above-income tradesmen rather than for the smallest ones. As much as I think the logic of this institute should be directed towards the fact that it will be the most interesting for the smallest tradesmen. I must also remind you that those who have children and are applying discounts today will not apply this scheme either, and will disqualify them and demotivate them from taking advantage of the flat-rate tax as a significant simplification of their administrative obligations at all. But these are topics that we will undoubtedly discuss in the next reading. I am calling on a number of amendments from the ODS to make it worthwhile for the less income traders and not to discriminate against even those with children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-002-002.u15	Thank you, my colleague Skopečka. Now, before I give the floor to Mr Vojtěch Munzar, I apologise to the president of PS. Mr Jan Richter apologizes for the whole of the day. Now, Mr Vojtěch Munzar, duly signed up for the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-002-002.u16	Thank you, Mr President, hello, fellow Members, fellow Members, Madam Secretary. I, too, have been asked by the Minister for briefness to make it today. I will grant this request because it is a voluntary instrument, and it is an option that entrepreneurs and businessmen can use to reduce administrative burdens, but also to reduce their tax obligations for some, especially with the smaller spending flat-rate when compared to a smaller spending flat-rate. In some cases, it's worthwhile for some. [[unintelligible]] So it doesn't pay off for some, for example. when applying other discounts, e.g. for children, dependants, wives, etc. But I'm sure that's what we're going to say to each other on committees and second reading. So a colleague of yours, Skopeček, said that we welcome it. Yes, we welcome this principle, but, of course, we have a problem, we will put forward amendments with parameters of this principle, especially because we also do not like the reduction from a million to 800 thousand. These different limits are starting to remind us of a warrior today. We have two million, and that's a good thing, we agreed on a tax expense flat-rate. We have a million to register for VAT.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-002-002.u17	I understand, Mr. Ambassador. I will try to ask colleagues who are discussing questions other than flat-rate taxes to move it into the lobby!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-002-002.u18	I'd like to make it, so thank you, co-workers and colleagues, for your attention. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] That means, I'll do it again, we actually have today, or if we accept it like the government suggests, we'll have three limits. We welcome, enforced and together then enforced a limit on the tax spending flat rate of CZK 2 million, we have a long-standing limit on mandatory VAT registration, where I see a real leap in the administrative burden of entrepreneurs. So when the secretary here was talking about reducing the administrative burden, I'd be happy to have a really serious conversation -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-002-002.u19	I'm gonna interrupt you one more time. Colleagues and colleagues, who want to speak to the flat-rate tax, can apply properly. Whoever's discussing something else, please in the foyer. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-002-002.u20	Indeed, the current one million crowns for compulsory VAT registration by the fact that it has not changed for many years, this turnover exceeds far more tradesmen and entrepreneurs than in the past. And because of that, one small contract for a small businessman is enough for construction companies to overcome this limit. And by overcoming this limit and mandatory VAT registrations, there begins the real administrative burden for the business sector, which has been increasing itself for several years. For example, the administrative burden was increased by the introduction of control reports, etc. And that's all the time and financial costs that businessmen and entrepreneurs have to spend. So I'll have a request and come up with it at second reading to raise the VAT registration limit to CZK 2 million after years. At the same time, we could talk - Mr Kalousek here said that he would propose a comparison with one million crowns, but if we were united to raise the limit to two million crowns, we could talk about flat-rate taxes, for example, in slightly different parameters, so that everything would be united to two million crowns. I think it would be logical, I think it would be right, I think it would help businessmen and entrepreneurs. It is precisely because of the shift of the VAT threshold to CZK 2 million that would mean a real reduction in the administrative burden. And I only have one question for the Minister. I only have one question for the Minister, who said here that it would mean that the entrepreneurs involved will not have to keep any tax records, they will not be subject to any checks. And I want to ask you about application practice, because sometimes a lot of things here look beautiful, but in application practice, it makes it look different. I want to ask how, in such a case, the financial authorities will distinguish whether or not the entrepreneur is crossing 800 grand, so in the final words, if the secretary answers me, because I would hate to say "you don't have to paper anything" here, and then the tax office came and then wanted some paperwork to do it and he started checking it out, and the entrepreneur here doesn't have it, so that the entrepreneurs don't get into any unnecessary problems, that then application practice will be different. That's what I need to explain and maybe distract some concerns. But otherwise, I welcome this proposal as a voluntary instrument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-002-002.u21	I thank Mr Vojtěch Munzar. I have no further application for a debate. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Yes, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-002-002.u22	I only have one sentence in reply to Mr Munzar. Simply thanks to EET. EET will simply be a kind of signal that, while there are only cash payments, that's true, you can object to me, we'll say it in detail, you know I'm going to all the budget committees, so I'll discuss it in detail with my colleagues. But if he's overstepped in the cash payments, it's clear that there's just no other control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-002-002.u23	I thank the Minister for her final word. I'm asking the rapporteur if she's interested in the final word. It's not like that. In the debate, there was no proposal for a return or rejection, so we can deal with the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone else suggest a committee as a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will take the vote. I will therefore undertake that the colleagues I have asked to hold discussions in the foyer may return. On the proposal that the guarantee committee will be a budget committee, we will decide in the vote number 6, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 6. Of the present 154 for 135, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees of the Chamber of Deputies, which is why I ask if anyone has a proposal on the commandment to other committees of the Chamber of Deputies. I don't see anyone, so we don't have to vote on the commandment to other committees. No application was made for a shortening or extension of the time limit for the hearing. I can therefore say that we have discussed the first reading of the press 922. I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, thank the rapporteur and I note that this press has been ordered by the Guarantee Committee, the Committee of Budget, and the deadline for discussion is by law of 60 days. I'm ending item number 2 of this meeting. We've exhausted the emergency meeting program and, according to the decision from yesterday, we're going to continue at 10:30 p.m. 56th, so I'm declaring a break until 10:30 p.m.
