ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u1	493. Oral inhalation Interpelations are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, or the Government of the Czech Republic as a whole, and to other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifier, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will perform and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš or the Government of the Czech Republic as a whole, from 14:30 to 16:00, to other members of the government from 16:00 to 18:00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to draw attention to all Members of the Government and to the fact that, if the Prime Minister's intervention is exhausted, an intercession block will be immediately launched on the other members of the Government. I give the floor to Mrs Věra Kovářová, who was drawn in the first place to give an interview on the Prime Minister in the matter of the Prime Minister's Majesty. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u2	Dear Prime Minister. In the last interview after an hour and a half of waiting for me to go to the bathroom to powder my nose, you've already missed me. So I'm gonna make it up to you tonight, and I'm gonna repeat the same interpelation. And I have two riddles for you. The first riddle is: who in the House kept screaming that a super gross wage is a mega mega fraud on voters. And the second puzzle is, do you know who said those words on Václav Moravec last December? "Do you know how much money it would cost to cancel the super gross wage next year? 80 billion, so the deficit would be 120 billion, ratings gone, the Czech Republic goes to hell." And then the person went on. "This is demagogy. It would destroy our entire economy. It would destroy the economy and our ratings. We have in the government's programming statement that we will reduce the super gross wage to 19 percent, not 15. I'm saying we have to fulfill the government's programming statement, so keep this demagogy. You want to destroy all budgets, you want to endanger the elderly." I don't think it's necessary to continue. And I will answer these two riddles immediately. Yes, Prime Minister, it was you. And why did you come with this proposal, which, for 80 billion, still seemed utterly devastating and demagogical to you last year for the state budget, now, at the end of the parliamentary term, in such a poor economic situation, even in the form of a parliamentary proposal? Plus, you didn't even come to defend it at second or third reading. Were you scared? Well, that's shameful. So I'm asking you, why these highs? We ask for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u3	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Andrej Babiš, has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u4	So hello, colleagues, colleagues, Mr President. Yes, yes, it was me, Madame, I missed you, so I was looking forward to it. It was me, and I'm proud to claim it. You know, I've been the country's best finance minister in history. The only minister who absolutely reduced the debt by 60 billion, and the finance minister who broke the carousel fraud and tax havens in Prague, introduced EET and collected hundreds of billions of taxes. And here I'll show you again what it looked like with our debt when I got in. [[It's showing a graph.]] Here: 40.6. I reduced it until 2017, then Sobotka kicked me out of the government, but Mrs. Schillerová continued. That is why the Czech Republic has the best public finances for its economy, which I have fixed. Only Estonia, Luxembourg, Bulgaria are better, but these are completely different economies. So that's why we can afford what we can afford. And maybe you didn't notice the difference when I was performing, and if that's the way it was, there wasn't a covid. I don't know if you've noticed that we have a COVID-19 pandemic all over the world, which, of course, brings a completely different national policy. And if you look at the debt again, such Germany has a 100 percent higher debt than the Czech Republic. 100 percent. Next year, they have a deficit 13 times our size. Thirteen times the size. Europe's best economy. So why did I change my mind? Well, because everyone just changed their minds. I don't know if you heard what Next Generation Fund is. This is a country recovery fund after the COVID pandemic. That's 750 billion euros, that's 20 thousand.120 billion. Crowns. And this money is taken by the European Commission and the whole of Europe. So we're acting exactly the same way, and I don't understand why you don't want to give people money? Yes, we can talk about pensions. It was me who raised pensions the most, gave them the discount, the elderly. Because old people need to be thanked, and we need them to have a decent pension. They still have the ninth worst in the European Union. So you're comparing things that are incomparable. And a super gross wage, yes, that's cheating on people from the workshop Topolánek - Kalousek, because it's actually, it's actually a trick where they tax... It's actually a tax tax. So they told people 15 percent, but then it didn't work out, so they made 134 basis. But we all know that. So I'm coming up with this because it's two years to go over that period, 2021 to 2022. All employees of private, state-owned companies and self-government, Mrs... Do you know how many employees work in self-government? 158,000. And those county officials and municipal authorities will get an extra paycheck next year if it passes, 3.6 billion. extra. $3.6 billion extra! And all civil servants get 7 percent pure on tape. So I don't know why you don't want to give these people the money? I think we must support them in these difficult times. So with this proposal we increase wages for all employees, self-employed workers will not pay higher taxes, as proposed 19, we are against it, and all employers will save money. It saves money, and in addition, we will compensate municipalities and regions for the loss of the RUD, where we propose compensation of actually 20 billion. So I think it's a great suggestion. [[Attention on time.]] And why did I change my mind? Well, because the covid changed it. He changed our lives and changed everything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u5	Thank you. The honourable Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u6	The best finance minister, you say. And I'm telling you what people will remember in a few years. They'll remember the man who made the worst attack on the state register! In 2023, the state debt will be doubled by 3 trillion crowns. They will remember the devastating attack on the finances of municipalities, towns and regions as well as on citizens. Finally, Prime Minister, you've worked it out. You'll finally get your revenge on those rebellious authorities. And the fact that you put money in people's pockets, that's what you forgot to tell them that you're going to be able to pull it out of the other pocket. And by not investing in regions, municipalities and cities, those people are gonna lose their jobs, so you forgot to tell them that, too. And did I forget about the pandemic? I'll tell you what's worse. Worse than pandemics are your devastating proposals for the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u7	Time, Madame. Thank you. The Prime Minister will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u8	It is difficult with you, Madame. So one more time. [[It's showing a graph.]] The debt to GDP at the end of this year will be lower than when I joined the Minister of Finance. And I was the first to cut the debt. I hope you can understand that. So I'm really rejecting it. You were the mayor at the Khan, weren't you? How much did you invest there? Nothing at all. Then call the mayor's office and tell her how much she invested for Babiš - 260 million. There's a new lovely hall and a school. You guys always come in when you cut the tape so you could talk there. But that's because of me, Madame. I introduced the program for schools in June 2014. So I refuse. And who gave the compensation bonus to the municipalities? Pirates can be lucky, Hřib got -- he's a county and a city, so he got 1.6 billion. That's why he's got 82 billion in his accounts! And they're dealing with some benches, I don't know, next to the tram or whatever they're doing there. [[It's showing another graph.]] The revenue of municipalities and regions combined 204 billion, weighing 204 billion. And I can document everything I said. I've got numbers for it. And it's true, because I, as Finance Minister, gradually wrote down everything I did. The destruction of gambling, for example, and the inspection reports, and the carousels, and the EET, how much energy I put into it. So I think the numbers are clear. Of course, it is important that the next government to emerge from the elections should be the Minister of Finance, who will also be able to do so. Because you know it theoretically, and I know it practically. And those numbers are just very clear, and that's why we can be proud, and we got a rating. We got a great rating again. [[Time, Prime Minister.]] Including the fact that the agency already knew what our deficit was next year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u9	Thank you. And now, Mr Janda will interpel the opening of the ski resorts. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I hope you've been looking forward to seeing me as a colleague of mine, Mr. Kovářová. But I'm addressing you to the ski resorts. Their operators, as well as mountain visitors, among whom you also belong, are in complete uncertainty. The coronavirus crisis is certainly not an easy situation and it is often necessary to decide from day to day. Nevertheless, I must say that the government is acting irresponsiblely in this regard. Tourism is an area that has been hit particularly hard because of coronavirus, and it also involves mountain tourism. What's the status? Practically the only certainty for winter resorts is the ban on the operation of lifts and cable cars which are valid until 12 December. But what's next? The Government's procedure raises a number of questions. Why, for example, were two key organisations excluded from the negotiations, namely the Rope Transport Association and the Union of Mountain Occupations? Why is skiing still prevented? Internal sports activities were permitted. Does the movement in the fresh air bring a greater risk? That doesn't make any sense to me. It's not just about sports. There is a strong economic aspect. We're talking about a sector where 45,000 jobs and billion-dollar turnovers are at stake. Moreover, confusion also brings in a possible Europe-wide ban. So, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you why key organisations for the operation of mountain centres have been excluded from the negotiations so far? When will full operation of ski resorts be possible? What solution will the government offer if the Czech ski resorts remain closed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u11	Thank you. Thank you for not spending time, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u12	So thank you for asking, Mr. Ambassador. Well, I wasn't looking forward to seeing you, but it's true that you're becoming Mrs. Kovářová's second big interpelative fan. [[Fun in the hall.]] You have one more question about funding sports, so I'll start with that. [[It's showing a graph.]] Look how much sport was given in 2013. You finished: 3 billion 673, and 11 billion 800 next year. And the sports agency is my work. I figured it out, and we made it with the Hnilička. And the money for the athletes won't be shared in the bars of InterContinental or the apartments. So let's start with that. And we support athletes. So just today, and I don't know who isn't talking to, I'm talking to everyone who asks me, and of course it makes sense, so just today was a meeting through videoconferencing, where Minister Blatný, Minister Plaga, Mr Hnilička, was the President of the Czech Chamber of Fitness, Tomáš Král, Chairman of the Czech Ice Hockey Union, . Chvalný, Czech Handball Union, Mgr Pakosta, Czech floorball, Mgr Pakosta, Czech Volleyball Union, Mgr Syrový, Director of Sports Department ČOS, Mr Varhaník, Czech Athletic Union, Michal konečný, Chairman of the Czech Basketball Federation, and Lukáš Heřmanský, Chairman of the Czech Ski Association, who spoke about the issue you are talking about. So we've heard it out there. Of course, the most important decision is taken by the Minister of Health, and the PES is the production of the Ministry of Health, and the government has taken note of it, and of course we respect what Minister Blatný says. It is true with regard to the complexes, that is a big debate throughout Europe, because France simply does not want to launch the premises, President Macron said that the lifts will not be triggered during Christmas. There he tries to reason among himself Switzerland, Italy, France. And Austria will start lifts 24. 12. But they have closed hotels and restaurants, so they're gonna start these lifts, and there's a debate here, of course, and there's gonna be a meeting tonight. So I don't know who was voted out. I'm sure no one's been voted out, we're talking to everyone. Mrs Rážová's task is to do this, and tomorrow there will be a health threat board where some procedure should be outlined. More or less the main problem is the management of the line on the lift. That's what it's all about, managing the front so there's no transmission. And if I understand that, but I don't want to anticipate it, it's thinking in the direction that we're going to copy Austria, because de facto in Austria, it's just for the locals, because in Europe, the epidemic is everywhere, and it's losing sense to the others. So it's on the table, it's a big debate, and I'm sure we're actively dealing with it. So I'm not aware that we're not talking to anyone. We talk to everyone. And if you have someone who wants to talk to us, of course, I'll be happy to organize it, and I'll host it as I moderated today, when there was actually a very active debate that showed that athletes don't have to use PCR tests anymore, that they can go to antigens. I think at the gym, it's coming to an agreement that coaches wouldn't need drapes if they used antigenic tests. So it's settled. And, of course, the Minister of Health can't anticipate hundreds of different situations of life based on the decision of the Ministry of Health, the "dog." So the situation is still not good. The numbers of the infected are high. We're relaxing today, and we can just ask everyone again to be responsible, solidarity, to abide by the Ministry of Health's decisions. And, of course, we see the needs of athletes and are ready to continue these discussions, so we also agreed on today's videoconference.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u13	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u14	Well, thank you for your word. Thank you for your honesty. But maybe there's a time when you'll be looking forward to me someday. As far as funding for sport is concerned, of course, I commend it, but this is like the 14th interpelation in order, and it's probably not going to work out for me today. But when you started funding sports, I'm asking you, why hasn't there been a single challenge especially for handicapped athletes? The one that was written was downloaded because it was all wrong. Next. We've got a PES. Do you know that this PES will prevent ski training for children? And speaking of Austria, Austria has already made it clear that it will open on December 24th under some conditions. To this day, we know nothing. We don't know a single clue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u15	Thank you. The Prime Minister will respond to an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u16	So I said it. I'll do it again. Tomorrow at the Health Risk Board, Minister Blatný will inform us about the conclusions of these negotiations with athletes. And as far as, of course, ski resorts are concerned, so also, I assume the government will decide on Monday and announce the decision. And I suppose it's going to be the same date, at least I understood that in Austria, the 24th place should actually be open under some conditions. But I'm not the one who decides. But that's how I understood it, but the public will know by Monday at the latest. And I assume Minister Blatný will be more specific at the press conference tomorrow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u17	Well, thank you. And now Mr František Kopřiva is in conflict of interest, but I do not see Mr František Kopřiva in the Babiš, so the interpelation is failing. And I beg Mrs Maříková, who will interpel in the matter - will the government set an example? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, you are asked by the press whether you will be vaccinated against COVID-19 disease, he replied that after consulting his doctor regarding another immunity due to medical condition. In your case, I quite understand. But Minister Brabec must also consult a doctor because he had a bad reaction to vaccination. And then some other members of the government replied that they would be vaccinated, but they would prefer risk groups. The public is concerned about vaccination because it is a completely new technologically advanced vaccine which has no support yet known from traditional vaccinations. It is a RNA vaccine, the active substance of which is carried in lipid nanoparticles. The vaccine thus designed has never been used in humans before, and therefore there are legitimate concerns about its safety, which experts from previous vaccinations cannot estimate in any way. Isn't it a bit of an alibi on the part of government members that they prefer risk groups? And will you appeal to them to set an example in the motivational campaign for citizens and to be vaccinated first?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u19	Thank you. And I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u20	Well, thank you for asking. So I normally answered the journalist's question honestly. Yes, I don't have 51 years of spleen, that's the main immune organ. When I was 15, I had thrombocytopenia, it's a disease that didn't clot my blood, I was in the hospital for a year. That's why I answered my answer. Plus, when I was vaccinated as a child against tetanus, I got an anaphylactic shock. So it's up to the doctors. And I don't think it's just that if Babiš gets vaccinated publicly, everyone gets vaccinated, or they don't. It's really not about us. So, of course, I'm dealing with this issue. Most of all, I have devoted myself to the fact that there are currently 20 million flu vaccines missing in Europe, which were not so much of an interest in the past, and in 2019 we even had to burn 37,000 influenza vaccines. This year is a huge interest, we managed to increase it, and it is still not enough. But it is true that we have large reserves in this regard, and we need the Ministry of Health to campaign as soon as possible so that people understand that this vaccination is in favour of their health. Of course, we have, and you've talked about it, all sorts of misinformation that's on the networks. Here's one of those misinformations - vaccination as a totalitarian tool. One focuses on speculation about compulsory vaccination and vaccination passport. The planned vaccination against COVID-19 is issued as mandatory for all citizens under the threat of severe punishment, although the Ministry of Health is planning - and I repeat again - voluntary vaccination, which will also be free for all citizens. So volunteer and free. Furthermore, disinformation about so-called "disinformation" is disseminated. vaccination passports, whereby those who are not vaccinated will be taken away from fundamental human rights and freedoms and similar stupidities. Then it's in the space that the vaccine is harmful. It's like nonsense, too. An intensive and permanent campaign is being conducted against vaccines at COVID-19, particularly against Pfizer and AstraZeneca and others developing vaccines. The hidden truth continues in the long-term trend of criticism of vaccination. In general, vaccination is referred to as unhealthy, but especially attacks the vaccine against COVID-19 by AstraZenec. It is based on the company's alleged liability for any damage, which is interpreted as evidence of the risk of this vaccine. In addition to the newly emerging vaccines on compulsory vaccination and vaccination passports, there is still misinformation on the deadly side effects and continued promotion of Russian vaccine Sputnik. The vaccine campaign accounts for approximately 30% of the total disinformation content devoted to COVID-19. I'm also being written by citizens, and I answer by them that it's nonsense. No one in Europe dares to approve a vaccine that threatens people. That's totally nonsense. Then further misinformation that the vaccine will not be effective, that the SARS-CoV-19 virus is similar to SARS and MERS viruses, and the teams that were involved in their research on vaccines for these viruses could take advantage of previous knowledge and start working on the vaccine for the new virus. The assessment of the vaccine shall take place according to the usual standards to ensure the quality of safety and efficacy. The marketing authorisation for vaccines will be supported by all necessary data. In particular, administrative steps will be accelerated. And the criteria for the registration of vaccines are stricter than for the medication. And the European Agency decides to decide on 15 December. So I think everyone is aware of that, and all the scientists in the world may be working on this vaccine to just do it, because it's the only solution to the COVID-19 pandemic at the moment. So vaccination against COVID-19 disease will be organized and controlled in accordance with the vaccination strategy against COVID-19 disease, which is currently in the internal review procedure, i.e. immediately before the finalization. Its final form will still be discussed with experts in the field of vaccinationology and other experts concerned. This will be discussed by Minister Blatný. I, too, have asked the Minister to provide the strategy for all parliamentary parties and movements to be able to comment on this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u21	Thank you. Thank you very much for this answer. The honourable Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, I asked if you would appeal to the members of the government and they would be vaccinated first. I don't expect you to answer my question, either. As for the misinformation, this is what I've quoted here about the legitimate concerns about her safety, the vaccine, so it's from Mr. Petráš's vaccinologist for CCN Prima News, so I think it's an expert. Well, if we keep going, as far as the vaccination passports are concerned, you said it was also misinformation, so it's from Mr. Blatný's mouth again, so it's really cool that the Health Minister is spreading us fake news. As for the advantages, it was also commented by Minister Blatný, then Minister Prymula. And even Mrs. Rážová, the chief hygienist, let herself be heard that vaccinations will benefit from the unscathed ones. It is precisely the expression of some members of the government and experts that concerns the emergence of two categories of citizens with different rights. Inoculation and non-inoculation. And I wonder how you feel about that. [[Attention on time.]] Do you think that selection and some kind of social pressure will not have the opposite effect, that people will be more demotive to the vaccination? [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u23	Thank you. The Prime Minister will respond to an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u24	Well, I don't know where you're going with this nonsense, who prepared it for you, this. Mr Petráš is a colleague of Professor Adámková. Isn't that right, Professor? And I even met him twice. And he was the one who worked on the Czech vaccine, so I know him well and I tried to teach him something. So what you're saying is absolute nonsense. Total nonsense. And once again, you're all gonna get that draft vaccination strategy and you're gonna be able to comment on it. So that's really disinformation you're spreading here, and it's completely pointless. We don't have two categories of citizens. There's a strategy coming up, and I don't know - and I assume that the Ministry is going to go about it so that the elders who are the most at risk now may have priority, but that doesn't mean that we have two categories of citizens here. That is absolutely, and I repeat again, it will be voluntary and free. And that's how it's gonna be everywhere. So your claims are really false.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u25	Next, Mrs Richterová will intersect in the case of priority care for the subscription of the iDNES covered by public health insurance. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u26	Hello, dear colleagues, dear Prime Minister. On another subject. To possess - or control legal terminology - iDNES portals and various medical facilities, for example. Both through trust funds. And in the past days, on December 1 and 2, this medium of yours has advertised a guarantee of preferential access to some of your medical facilities. Quote: hip surgery in priority term. But it is unethical to offer other than equal access to health care when it is covered by solidarity public health insurance, and this acceptance of payments for priority is contrary to the basic principles of our Public Health Insurance Act. It's basically a possibility of a bribe for skipping other patients, and legally, it's not possible. That is why we believe that this is the spread of misleading advertising on your behalf through trust funds owned by a portal. That is why we have prepared a specific incentive for this verification, and that is why I have questions. First of all, when did you stop this campaign, if you stopped it? Secondly, can you promise to actually lure those deceptively lured funds out to people who bought iDNES Premium with a vision of that priority access to healthcare? And thirdly, if you ensure legal early access to paid health care even to those insured people who didn't pay for this privilege. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u27	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u28	Thanks for the word. Well, I'll be good to you today, Madame. I have a feeling that your brain trust, that Bartoš, Michálek, Ferjenčík, had you pegged to be the one who intersects me. And I'd like to see in your head how you feel when you're talking nonsense. You know well that, under Section 110 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, every Member has the right to interpel the Government or its members in matters of its competence. I'm sure you've read that. Yeah? So here you're asking questions that, of course, I can't know. So if you have a problem, please contact the portal or some organs. I'm sorry your shadow minister of foreign affairs, František Kopřiva, didn't come up with the threesome. I've been looking forward to this conflict of interest, your organized reporting and actually manipulation. Because the whole audit is handled purposefully, it was organized by the person who was once my subordinate and who turned the Czech Republic into Brussels and we lost 800 million. He's been setting up his whole life. You pirát still state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u29	Prime Minister, I would ask you to make your point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u30	You are the biggest informers and we have lost 800 million as the Czech Republic. Yeah? So you're harming the Czech Republic. And that audit was organized by my former subordinate. He still writes in Brussels. Even one of those auditors ran for you in the European Parliament. There are those who direct you to destroy this country, your neomarxist promigrant party. So it's a shame Mr. Kopřiva didn't come. So I'm sorry about your interception, but I can't serve.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u31	Okay. The Member will probably be interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u32	You can't thank for this answer because it wasn't an answer. Dear Prime Minister, again. You are the prime minister of this government. This government is to defend the legality of various activities. And I wonder if your government will intervene against this illegal activity, against the spread of misleading advertising. At least this happened according to our experts. My point is that it doesn't show that it's possible to pay off priority access to healthcare. We consider this a fundamental hacking of equal access to paid health care. And the fact that you're not willing to answer those few questions shows that your government is failing to give people equal access to healthcare. You found out that it's a space for marketing and business through your trust funds, not really companies, you're in business, and now you're not ashamed to blame the others with all sorts of false accusations. [[Time, Madame.]] For me, this is not the Prime Minister's attitude I wish!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u33	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u34	I was rehearsing today to be nice, so I'm gonna be nice, I'm not gonna say anything to apologize for. It's total nonsense you're talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u35	Okay, that was the answer. And we'll move on. Now, Mrs Pekarová Adamová should interpel in the matter of the poisoning of the Bečva River. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u36	Prime Minister, on September 20th of this year, one of the worst environmental disasters in the modern history of the Czech Republic on the Bečva River has become. This river was poisoned, tons, really dozens of tons of fish died, the whole ecosystem was disrupted. Not only fish, but, of course, a number of other animals living in and around the river were threatened. You have already repeatedly expressed your views on this matter, but I would like to ask, in particular, whether your trust remains with the Minister of the Environment Brabec, who has repeatedly lied about it. For example, in one of those specifics, let me be really precise. When we discussed this point in the House, he claimed that the police had bound him to secrecy in this case. She very soon disproved that it wasn't true at all. So he lied quite clearly. Some time ago, you and Mr. Brabc were releasing crayfish on another river. You had a whole bunch of journalists there. Under the surveillance of the cameras, you took care of it, whereas when it was death and a truly unprecedented disaster of a huge number of fish, fishermen risked those dead, dead fish hunted on the river, and you didn't even show up. Neither you nor Mr Brabec. So I want to ask you: if Minister Brabec himself does not resign, will you withdraw him from the government?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u37	Thank you and I'll ask for more peace in the room. There were some disagreements during the honourable Member's speech. I think everyone has a right to... [[A voice from the diaper.]] I'm not saying no. They were there. So I'm asking the Prime Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u38	Thank you for the floor. I don't understand why I'm supposed to be interpelled. I understand that before the regional elections you had nothing to do with the program, all you had was how the government worked in COVID-19, and then Bečva came in where Mr. Gazdík lied. He was apologizing, he's lying again today. So I don't have anything to say about it. You guys were all epidemiologists here before the election, and now you're experts in toxicology. So I don't think I can tell you anything about that. Try to contact the founder of your party. He's a chemist, so maybe he'll explain it to you, but I have nothing to say. I wrote to the Police President on 13 November asking him: Mr. Police President, I would like to address you on the environmental accident on the Bečva River, which took place on 20 September 2020. The issue in question is in the resolution of law enforcement authorities. I ask that a proper and proper investigation of the environmental accident be carried out as soon as possible. I fully respect the principles of democratic law, including the independence of the activities of law enforcement bodies, which I do not intervene in any way, but in the light of the fact that the matter is on the part of politicians - politicians, politicians - and the media! - Of course, the entire media network! - abused, and it becomes part of the political struggle - and that is what you do here, because this interpelation is completely meaningless - so it becomes part of the political struggle in disrespecting the fundamental principles of the rule of law associated with the dissemination of false, constructed and entirely purposeful information. I ask you that the Police of the Czech Republic make every practical and timely effort to ensure that the environmental accident is properly investigated and that the results of the investigation are known as soon as possible. Well, that's all I can do. And I don't understand why I should be dealing with this. Of course, you're interpelling this, we all know why. You're using it politically, and that's it. So I don't have anything to say about it. And please interpel Mr. Hamáček, let it finally investigate what they've been doing there for three months.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u39	Thank you. The Member will be interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u40	Prime Minister, you've been in government for seven years, maybe you could get used to being a politician and that a politician has his responsibility, political responsibility, to his duties. You are the President of the Government, in whose composition you have the Minister of the Environment - I underline the environment - and this Minister of the Environment, who is already, if I am not mistaken, six years in this capacity, is therefore certainly responsible politically also for other authorities under his ministry. One of those who have a clear role to play both in this case and in the law is the Czech Environmental Inspection. It is therefore politically responsible. Therefore, I ask you once again whether Mr Brabec continues to have your confidence that he, his ministry, and his subordinate authorities are acting impartially on this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u41	Thank you for keeping time. The Prime Minister will answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u42	I don't know how to explain it anymore. I think all the organs under Brabec are independent. I'm convinced of that. So everyone's investigating. The YES movement has a new great coalition partner in the Zlin region. Pirates! And the pirate announces, she can control everything! Especially the company, right? That's the coalition partner. Gazdík is upset because he's in opposition, they didn't take him. Well, that's it. So you're doing the politics here. The psychic's a mess. Interpel Hamáček, let the police finally investigate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u43	Next in line is Mr Stanislav Blaha. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, we meet repeatedly here in plenary with your cries of thanking you for the prison, for repairing it, for putting it in order, and I don't know what else to do. I am the mayor of the city in which this former Communist prison stands, I visit it several times every year, and I have personally spoken to many people who have experienced the horrors that have happened behind its walls. And I'm embarrassed to listen to you. First of all, there's nothing going on with the prison. After a whirlwind in the summer of 2019 you have a little taped up the roof to avoid leaking into the building, these are common maintenance work, which you are also obliged to do by law as the owner of the cultural monument. And that's it. No statement to the building office or territorial consent, no coordinated opinion of the construction office is available. So the next time you chase about running reconstruction, please find out the facts that we have in the Hradiště every day in our sights. Second of all, what exactly am I supposed to thank you for? For refusing to sell the prison to us when we wanted to buy it as a city and start putting it back together because we couldn't watch it anymore? The prison is, was, and apparently will be the property of the state. Third, and that's the main thing, let's get some pure wine. Please provide us with a timetable for the correction of the prison, when there will be something to repair, what the project looks like, who will inform us about the procedure. As a city, we would like to begin to modify the premises in front of the prison so that we can make a dignified entrance gate to this cultural monument. And unfortunately, we are cornered because, despite the signed memorandum, no information is available to us, and the reconstruction is running at most in the headlines of the newspaper. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] The truth is, the former communist prison in Hradiště is just going to blow our minds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u45	Time, Mr. Ambassador. I would really like to keep up the time to ask questions. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u46	Thank you for the floor. I'll say it again. If it wasn't for me, nothing would ever happen to that prison. And you lied here repeatedly. This is unbelievable. The city was the owner of the prison. Why didn't you keep it? Why did you turn her over to the court? And the Prime Minister of the District Court, we've been dealing with her for six months before she finally agreed. So, thanks to me, as Treasury Secretary, who's fierce, this prison is being carried out. And in September 2016, when I was Minister of Finance, we signed a memorandum. And you don't normally tell the truth here. And I'm sure, even Mrs. Arajma will prove that she repeatedly called on you to contribute to investment and operation as a city. You've rejected it repeatedly! Repeatedly. In 2013 Uherské Hradiště received from the state budget, it was in your time, 115 million and in 2019, in our time, it was 132 and you repeatedly refused to participate as a city. You didn't want to give a crown. Not even for traffic! Nothing short. So I'm wondering how dare you even say that here. Yeah? We've spent x of time with it, I've been there repeatedly, you're still talking about it, like your former senator, Valenta, you didn't do anything about it. Yes. And I can repeat, if it wasn't for me, nothing would ever happen in life. And that the Totalitarian Museum will be there, yes, everyone can thank Babiš, who put it through. Just like the Imperial Spa and other things. I can give you the whole list. [[15.20 hours]] So in 2016, after half a year we acted, the city, the county, no one wanted or wanted to give it, well, so 2017 is concluded an agreement between the Ministry of Culture and the Zlín Region and the city of Uherské Hradiště about the scope and space for building a museum of totalitarianism. There will be a district court, a prosecutor's office, yes, and the trial is underway. This year 133 tons of waste and rubble were exported from the prison, the building was completely technically focused, two mandatory surveys are currently underway, building technical and construction-historical, so of course it's a complicated construction, it's a historical construction. Then we will have documentation for the zoning decision, building permit, documentation for the construction and reconstruction itself. So all these surveys are going to take, unfortunately, there are archaeologists, there's a conservation facility. So I don't know what you're talking about. You should be glad the state is doing this for you. If we hadn't stepped in, it'd still be the same as it was. You didn't do anything about it. And it was the property of the city. And you don't want to participate. So I don't understand what you're saying. The Ministry of Finance approved the investment plan for the reconstruction of the prison premises in 2019. 90 million were earmarked for the implementation of the preparatory work and the total amount for the reconstruction is 436 million. That's why you're supposed to be happy, Mr. Mayor, that the State did it for you. You didn't do anything! And it was in your possession! Now you're saying that's what you want? You didn't do anything about it. We did it. You're always complaining. I would have expected a thank you letter from you to Mrs Arajma and to me who were at the beginning of this matter. Yes, we were waiting for the Ministry of Culture to agree, yes, culture, district court, state's attorney. So all of this can be absolutely documented. So I don't understand what you're talking about when you say something. You had it, you didn't do anything. And now that we're doing it, you don't want to contribute a crown. And that's it. So that's why we expect this thanks from you and Mrs. Arajma.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u47	Thank you. Mr Blaha is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u48	Prime Minister, your problem is that your piárists process your answers before the questions come up. The prison, I repeat, is a state, therefore it is a matter of the state as the owner. The fact that we historically owned it is true, but we went back to the state that wanted to build a judicial palace here. You should know that as Prime Minister. And the fact that we signed the memorandum to unblock the thing, and that we split up the tasks, who's going to invest, and that investing the city in the property of the state is a legally problematic thing, you should know that too. I want you to give me a timetable for what will be done. Because if you're here making excuses for your coalition partners that something was delayed by culture, you forgot to say that the whole thing lay motionless for a year in finance, and there was a solution to how the investment could even be planned for the state budget within two parliamentary periods. So don't shut up here, tell the truth, and please give me a clear timetable when we get to the finish line.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u49	Time. Thank you for keeping the time exactly. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u50	Mr. Colleague, it's pointless with you. It's true what I said last time. So one more time. The prison was owned by the city. I visited her, and I saw the horror, the history. [[Messenger. Bliss from the diaper off the microphone.]] It was! She was. She was owned by your city for three years, and you didn't do anything. Then it went to trial, we fought for it for six months because I said we had to fix it. You didn't do anything. So you're just lying here, that's totally unbelievable. [[Messenger. Blaha continuously reacts from the bench.]] And I'm not presenting anything to you. I'm not your subordinate. You guys be glad we're doing this. You're not participating anything. You haven't given it any time, you're just doing some politics here. I've devoted a lot of energy to this with Mrs. Arajma. And no piárists are giving me any background. This basis is from the Director of the ÚZSVM, the Office for State Representation in Property Affairs. So I don't know what you're talking about. That's all there is to it. And you're actually just doing some publicity here, doing everything you can to make sure it wasn't. We convinced you three quarters of a year, you didn't do anything about it, and you didn't contribute a penny to it, and that's it. And if it weren't for us, it wouldn't be at all, and you have it there for life.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u51	Thank you. I will ask the Member not to shout at each other from the benches. Mr. Marek Výborný will perform with an interview. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u52	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a question concerning your government on this Monday of the amendment to the Public Health Act, where the reference report explicitly states that it has been prepared on - I quote - the Prime Minister's order. I do not want to question here the efforts to centralise the hygiene service system, which in itself may be necessary. However, under this godly effort, the proposal contains completely unprecedented powers that the government wants to put in the hands of the chief health officer. This senior civil servant could thus newly close shops and restaurants, restrict the provision of services, restrict private and public events, sports facilities, close schools, even universities without any scrutiny of Parliament. In fact, there would be an office with powers beyond the Minister of Health and the Government itself. This would give the Chief Hygiene the power to intervene in fundamental rights and freedoms, which is clearly an unconstitutional step. What should be pointed out is that limiting the economy, rights and freedoms of citizens by the Public Health Act would in fact exclude the possibility of seeking compensation under the Crisis Act. I'm afraid this was your motivation in the assignment. Prime Minister, are you aware of these facts that appeared in the bill? Can you explain the circumstances of the motivation whether you want to avoid claims for damages? What is the reason why this proposal is being discussed in a shortened inter-ministerial commentary procedure? And why isn't a proper report of RIA being prepared for the proposal? Why is this proposal also to be discussed in a legislative emergency? And this crucial, why doesn't the government submit amended crisis legislation in the form of a constitutional law on state security and crisis law? At the moment when I, too, rejected the similar efforts of Minister Vojtěch to circumvent the crisis law in the spring, Deputy Prime Minister Hamáček promised that the amendment of crisis legislation would be discussed by September. It's December, and Prime Minister, nothing. And again, the government is testing this scandalous unprecedented procedure, bordering on the establishment of bureaucratic totalitarianism. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u53	Thank you for your near-accurate time, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u54	My colleague, I think you can compete with Mr. Mayor of Hungarian Hradiště from the point of view of demagogy and untruth. As far as I know, even the opposition called for the law on hygiene to change. And you've said a lot of untrue things here. First of all, the government didn't discuss this law at all, and the Ministry of Health simply doubted, because they put it in eKLEP without it being in a commentary procedure. So the government rejected it, the law goes through interdepartmental commentary proceedings and, of course, different things that have nothing to do there, which officials suggested there, I don't know why, we refuse. We even offered to give it to all parties. So you're intersecting me here, I don't know what for. To give it to you? It's going to be discussed here. The government didn't discuss it, she returned it, none of the members of the government read it, there was no comment procedure, so we returned it. So here you're saying there's some kind of effort. There's no effort. We are still a minority government. We suggested that we give it to you, but you're already making an alarm here that we want to control something and all that nonsense again. I don't know if you know that - and the opposition itself suggested it. Today we have fourteen self-functioning regional sanitation stations, which are of course not effective in terms of management here during the fight against the COVID-19 epidemic. So the regional sanitation stations are separate administrations and the final decision-making is entirely dependent on the particular director of the regional hygiene station. So, in many aspects of state health supervision, there is disunity in the performance of state administration, differences in the interpretation of the obligations arising from legislation, a different form of administrative punishment, and so on. The Ministry of Health is aware of these differences. [[15.30 hours]] And you say I ordered. I didn't order anything. [[Unintelligible]] logic? I took part in these meetings, when it was absolutely uncoordinated, nor were there any synergies. So I'm definitely refusing here that I ordered something. The Department of Health has to deal with this. And he just has to suggest it. And from the point of view of managing the COVID-19 epidemic, even after months, procedures cannot be fully brought to a uniform level, in particular from the point of view of the use of identical IT tools and procedures, so that they can be effectively managed, evaluated and coordinated by the procedures of circuit sanitation stations. So the new office with a single central director will ensure consistency of management and procedure within the sphere of sanitary service. The internal structure, the distribution of the territorial workplaces, their occupation and the overall systemization of the state sanitary service will be the responsibility of its director. So I think it's gonna be a big debate, and I don't understand why you're interrogating me when we've clearly said and announced that we're gonna put it at the disposal of all parties. And the government hasn't even discussed it yet, nobody's read it, there's no comment procedure. So you're already criticizing something that's not even on the table.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u55	Thank you. The Member shall ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u56	Prime Minister, you really amuse me. Apples, pears, you're all tangled together. How can you make something available to parties when you make it available to the House press for discussion here in the Chamber of Deputies? That's nonsense. And when you said the government hadn't negotiated... I didn't say you guys negotiated it either. But the government was discussing, and all she did was send it to a short notice hearing for seven days, seven days, seven days. 12. That's all the government did. I heard about her wanting to communicate with the parliamentary political parties for the first time here from you, not a word of it. And I never, ever said the law was negotiated. It is open, and I asked why - there is no question of centralization of sanitary services, that is all right - but for what reason there are competences that obviously interfere with fundamental human rights and freedoms. You couldn't answer that. I'll be glad to hear what you said about this nonsense not being there, but don't say you wanted to consult. That's not for consultation when the government discussed the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u57	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u58	Okay, let me try and explain this one more time. The government didn't discuss it. It wasn't in the commentary process. The Ministry of Health was in error. There are things that we will never support, such as restricting the individual's personal person or watching fellow citizens, etc. So we put it back into the commentary process. And in good faith, before the government discusses it, we wanted to put it at your disposal. If we don't talk to you, you scream when we want to give it to you, you're in trouble again. You always have a problem. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Because it's not about the thing at all. [[The President again draws attention to the time.]] Your point is to talk on a microphone and talk nonsense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u59	Thank you. Next in line is Mr Jan Lipavský, who will perform with the interview. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u60	Dear Prime Minister, I have a series of questions for you. We've already talked about this here at the last of the interviews, and since then, quite some things have shifted, they have moved forward. First of all, I wonder what's behind your statement that the tender isn't ready, or that it's not well prepared, which you gave to the iROZHLSA. Secondly, I would like to know how you actually perceive the political consensus that seemed to prevail over the core, but now clearly does not rule over the application of security guarantees from the point of view of geopolitical insurance. And in that context, there's a lot of talk about different consortiums, partial participation, limited participation, but it's all seemingly just a sort of label for a Russian bunny who has a Macron on the cover, and there's Putin hidden inside. So if that's how you feel about it. After all, even the Deputy Prime Minister of this government, Jan Hamáček, quite clearly declared that the State should apply the security exception under Section 29a of the Public Procurement Act, which is the paragraph that CEZ has claimed to need to build the core, and its applications therefore mean that technology from the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China will not be allowed to build the key parts of the new nuclear bloc, specifically the most important thing we are talking about, that is the inside of the bomb, that is the reactor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u61	Well, thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u62	So the question about Russia's possible involvement - no? That's the point. In the selection procedure for suppliers of a new nuclear source in Dukovany, I would like to mention for several times in the context of the interpelation what our government has declared since the beginning, namely that the main supplier will be selected in a competitive tender, whose aim is, of course, to obtain the best offer from the point of view of price, feasibility and other conditions, including the involvement of the Czech industry and the transfer of know-how. We want cheap energy for people. That's the main target. We want a fair competition. However, the security interests of the State are a key aspect which must be an investor at all times, i.e. the preparation of the project, construction and operation, taken into account. On the basis of contracts concluded between the State and the investor, the State has the right to enter into the tender procedure at any time for suppliers of nuclear technology managed by ČEZ and to take into account its security interests in the selection of the supplier of nuclear technology, but also in the sub-contracting chain. In order to ensure the security interests of the State in the field of nuclear energy, a special government resolution of 27 April 2020 was also adopted, which includes specific mechanisms, including cooperation between the State administrations and security forces concerned. The investor has also received State security requirements, which include, in addition to the mechanisms mentioned, provisions on the mitigation of risks associated with misuse of information by corruption, misuse of know-how or technology, misuse of dependence on suppliers and supply chains and others. For example, suppliers of systems necessary for nuclear safety management and nuclear material records, physical protection and radiation emergency management shall be from EU or NATO countries. Demand documentation also ensures that the state of the nuclear power plants in the Czech Republic is achieved, which are not entirely dependent on the country of the supplier of nuclear technology. At present, the government is faced with a decision whether, under contracts, an investor will give his consent to the inclusion of safety requirements, with which there is also a question of who should be addressed as a potential main contractor of the project. We realise that this is also a political issue. The Government therefore respects the interest of opposition political parties in closer information on the tender and has decided to move negotiations on state security requirements within the framework of the selection procedure only after the meeting of the Standing Committee next week on 9 December and which should be a forum for consensus between all political parties on those issues. We want to be transparent and we want the construction of new nuclear resources in the Czech Republic to continue to be a matter of our joint efforts, respectively. a shared public interest, i.e. not to make a political issue unnecessary to divide us. And that, of course, is what I would ask you to do, Mr Member, because otherwise the Dukovany II project itself and the development of nuclear energy in the Czech Republic in general could be threatened, which would result in a stable supply of electricity to our households and businesses and our energy self-sufficiency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u63	Thank you. The Member is interested in asking an additional question, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u64	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, I'm sure the question isn't based on the fact that if this fall doesn't decide on the core, there won't be electricity. It's definitely not worth it. If the project is still under preparation for a year, two, it will certainly not have a significant impact on the Czech Republic's energy balance, so the risks of that delay are absolutely minimal. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, can we move the third reading of the low-carbon bill before it becomes clear before there is a political consensus over the security issue? Because tomorrow we're supposed to talk about this here in the House, and if the question is still being dealt with on Thursday, I guess now that the House is going to talk about it on Friday, it's not entirely appropriate, and it would certainly contribute to the political consensus. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u65	Thank you. The Prime Minister is interested in answering. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u66	You're asking me questions that aren't in my jurisdiction, and I have a basis here, of course, and you should finally say what you want. According to Mr. Havlíček, pirát and STAN are torpedoing a problem-free law on electricity buyout to provide us with cheap energy in future generations from a new source. - So you don't want cheap energy for people. They mix everything possible together, and apparently they don't want the core. - What do you want? Russian gas? Or what do you want? You name it. So the law pushed through to the third reading, yes, the efficiency shifts for months, so the notifications shift. Why did you stop it if you want to deal with it? I don't know what you're dealing with. And I said it would be on the standing core nine committee. 12. And again, we want cheap electricity for people and businesses, energy independence, a stable source and security. We made it clear, and if you want to say that, I don't know that you decide, or I don't know who, or the next government, I don't have a problem with it personally, but then say clearly that you don't want it and that it will be delayed. Then it's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u67	Thank you, and at this moment the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies will speak to the Prime Minister, Mr Vojtěch Pikal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u68	Thank you, Mr President, for replacing me. Dear Prime Minister, I appeal to you with an interview regarding the Act on Election Governance and the accompanying law. The Ministry of the Interior had final proposals for comments authorized in October last year, on 19 November this commentary procedure was closed, but it has not yet been submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, although it is more than a year. The time is disproportionate also because the government was able, even at the last minute, to adopt the electoral law on special voting methods very quickly. In doing so, the Election Management Act may contain mechanisms that systematically ensure the appropriate conduct of elections in similar crisis situations, without the need to adopt specialized one-off legal regulations. According to the reply of the Vice-President of the Government of Hamáček of 18. On the 11th of this year, the Ministry of the Interior did not withdraw from its interest to digitise certain processes in the preparation of elections and to make elections available to the public and candidates. The reform is still being pursued and we would like to support the Vice-President in this. For what reason has the electoral code not yet been included on the government's agenda, and when will the government discuss it? Will you enforce his inclusion on the government program? Those are my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u69	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u70	Well, yes, it's true, the Home Office has prepared it. And why wasn't it in the government? Well, because it wasn't at the coalition council. So if this is discussed at the Coalition Council, we'll put it on the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u71	Is the Vice-President interested in asking an additional question?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u72	Thank you for the short and clear answer. I'd like to ask who else to turn to, so it's included in the coalition board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u73	Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u74	Well, you turned to me, so I'll sort of hand it over. But the coalition has other priorities today, but I'm sure for the next coalition, if Mr. Hamáček puts it there, it'll be there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u75	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Martínek will take the floor with the interview. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u76	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, on Tuesday's press conference in commenting on the pirate proposal to abolish the tax exemption for the sale of securities in excess of CZK 20 million per year, you, like today in your iDNES, attacked pirát with pointless comparisons, which would rather fit a colleague of StB's. The abolition of this tax exemption, which we submitted for the first time in April 2019 and is still waiting for a proper discussion, is inspired by most developed countries of the world, including neighbouring Austria or Germany. Are you saying that Austria or Germany is in the same situation as the Czech Republic in February 1948? Is it not successful in Austria or Germany? Why do people have to make about 45 percent of their income out of work, while billionaires have nothing to do with it? That is why I want to ask you why you are criticizing the proposal for which the YES movement voted? Isn't it because you've now discovered that you couldn't apply this tax exemption yourself and that you had to start paying taxes as a natural person? Why do you now oppose President Miloš Zeman's wish to abolish tax exemptions? Why did the ANO movement, with the help of the SPD and the ODS, increase the rate of non-taxation of capital income from 15 percent, as Mikuláš Ferjenčík presented, to the final to 23 percent? I understand the request for legislative amendments to the proposal, for example, so that the tax is not as high as it has increased the YES movement. This can now be done in the Senate. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u77	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u78	Thanks for the word. I'm so glad you guys suggested it, at least we know what's going on, right? You're the extreme left. You're the neomarxists who were checking in Prague to see if anyone had a big apartment. If he's big, we'll tax him. And then what happens? Sharing? That's what they used to call nationalization in the old days. Your problem is that your shadow finance minister doesn't understand at all. This is your sponsor. Do you know who that is? That's Mr. Bárta. (Shows photo. He's offering every side against Babiš five million. He said on Twitter that he invented it. He, who took out two billion without tax, of course. So now it suggests that all startupists and all spinoffists, simply expel all investors from the Czech Republic. And what was interesting is that you guys got your ass kicked. It's all of them. [[He's taking the evidence.]] Here you have: Pirate appetites point to untaxed income from the sale of shares, threatening the outpouring of investors or arbitrage - they write. Even the bakalovs here loaded you up, who still support you, right? Did you see all the headlines they were? Shooting each other in the leg. Investors, economists criticize the taxation of the sale of shares, shares. Haven't you read it? Here. Bakalovec. Pirate rules for selling securities are really pirate. Have you read it? Unison. I'm not saying anything. Pirate capital taxation discourages people from doing business - claims the founder of Socialbakers Jan Řežáb. So the one who advised you because your shadow finance minister obviously doesn't understand it, he doesn't have the education to do it, and then he confessed to it, so it's absolutely an attack, an attack on business. I'll read you from Facebook here. I don't know who he is. Bajza. [[Nesroz.]] Mr Ferjenčík has proposed that long-term securities held in sales be taxed at 23 percent. The proposal passed and is in the Senate together with the abolition of a super-gross wage and an increase in the tax flat rate. What will the pirát' proposal mean in practice? You'll spend your whole life working at your own firm, which you often build from scratch. You don't have a successor or kids want to make a living with something else, or you just did something and you want to relax or try something else. So you decide to sell the company. So far, sales are not taxed. But why wouldn't the pirát rob a stranger? Then pay the owner. Does anyone else doubt that this association is left-wing and will only be sucking their money out of people as soon as they move? According to the famous rule, when it moves, it has to be taxed. And when it's still moving, the tax is supposed to go up. So that's your attitude for businessmen. And if it stops moving, we'll subsidize. So it's a question for the pirát. How did you get someone to build their work and knowledge of the company that you want to parasite on the sale? - This is the gentleman. - My answer is no. [[15.50 hours]] If you have any analysis. Because you didn't do it, that investor did it. Even your sponsors, there was an oligarch from an anti-Babish journal who criticized you. Well, that's a real shot. A total attack on business! You'll drive out all the startups and spin-offs. They're going to Silicon Valley. Instead of staying at home and creating here, and then when you banish those investors, those people lose their jobs. And that's you. Fanatics, basically the biggest threat to this country! Definitely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u79	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question, I presume. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u80	Mr. Oligarch, why are you attacking Austria, Germany? Is that an extreme left? Why are you lying about some big apartment that we've been talking about? pirát never spoke of greatness! Why do you spread such disinformation, which also spreads to your supporters, for example, about proposals for seniors who do not exist? If you have read the articles, and you have read it in this article, the rate of 23 percent has always been criticised, which you have put in place in a proposal for which we have not voted. And I can promise you, Prime Minister, we will not vote for the MP's version of the tax package. So we're not gonna approve of the wording in which it's accepted. That would be you, tops. At this point you have a chance together with us, we will be happy to fix it in the Senate so that it will suit you too. And I'd be happy to be a part of it. But you can't say here that something that is true in the developed world, in almost every country in Europe, is something that shouldn't be true in our country! I mean, we're supposed to pay taxes and billionaires.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u81	Time, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you. The Prime Minister will still respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u82	You forgot the apartments. At the end of March, Prague's mayor Zdeněk Hřib said in an interview for the media that Prague should investigate which flats are empty for possible higher taxation. [[Responses from the Pirates' desks.]] Well, that's what Hřib said! Well, size, well, then you're gonna move somebody in, aren't you? We remember that the way it was. First you get your taxes, and then you put somebody else in there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u83	I would allow us to return to the topic of interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u84	Here's the headline! [[He's pointing.]] We wanted to find out how many empty apartments there are in Prague, defending the pirát. Here's your famous Peks. What does he want to tax? Well, financial operations. No? Who's gonna pay for this? Financial transaction tax. Of course the citizens will pay for it! You are the biggest threat to this country! Biggest, definitely. The Promigrant neo-communist group supported by the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u85	I would ask that we always answer questions and stick to the subject. And now, please, Mrs Majerová Zahradníková, who will interpel in the matter of the Central Office of the Public Health Service. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u86	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, on Monday, there was a report by all the media that the government wanted to introduce a new central public health service office under the Ministry of Health, which is supposed to be able, even without emergency, to decide to close shops, schools and also to obtain the authority to monitor any citizen's mobile phone in case someone evaluates that the alleged user is infected. Every time any new office is created with almost unlimited powers, we, who grew up in totalitarian times, always keep our eyes open and our ears open. Because that's what's happening right now. Health Minister Blatný says it's something we're all calling for. Well, then I would very much like to doubt that, because I certainly wouldn't. Emergency is an exceptional matter that is clearly defined by law. The government proposes it, approves it or rejects it, but it is always a decision made by people elected by representatives. The introduction of such an office would mean that no one could speak into this anymore. And we've had that here before. I would like to ask you, and I demand a clear answer: Do you really want to introduce a special office to spy on people and restrict human freedoms? Do you really want to trust and concentrate such power in the hands of someone who hasn't been elected? Do you really want such totalitarian practices to be treated in the Czech Republic? I ask for a clear and clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u87	Thank you. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u88	Madam, I'm sure we don't want to. We do not want and will not support any law that restricts the individual's personal freedoms or allows our fellow citizens to be watched. It's a clear violation of the Ministry of Health. The minister is new there, of course dealing with covid, they shouldn't have put it out at all. We turned it down on the government, returned it, and, of course, it's a law that's going to be discussed here. And all of you will create and change it here. We are a minority government. So what you're saying, we don't want, we refuse! That's why the government didn't even discuss it, and that's why we offered that if it already took some form after the comment procedure, we would put it at your disposal. But Mr. Výborný doesn't want it. But if you're interested, of course we'll give it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u89	Thank you. The Member will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u90	I would have responded, if I'd allow it, because the Minister of Health Blatný defended it yesterday at the round table. So I guess you guys don't have any tunes, the notes. I'm really upset about these things here. So you should probably talk to the Minister about not defending something you, as Prime Minister, don't defend and don't want. That's what I wanted to say first. And secondly, you said that the government refused, but that we would be able to get acquainted with the law. The truth in that ministry is someone so sick that laws are being passed here that should limit our freedoms? This seems preposterous to me. And I can tell you this is a situation where it's really enough to kick the ball out. Because if we're already living in a dimension that someone's thinking totalitarianly, then I don't know. That's all I wanted to do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u91	Thank you. Time. And the Prime Minister will answer an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u92	I repeat, it was a mistake. Nobody thinks totalitarianly, but they simply wanted to have some competence in terms of tracking and protecting people's health. So I repeat, it's not, the government didn't discuss it. It's got to be a reminder procedure. And, of course, such considerations are unacceptable. And we had hygiene here, no one at all, it all got privatized, there were labs, no one cared about them, and they were in some condition that we had to fix in a few months. It's a smart quarantine system. So I'm sure no one meant it that way. And it's a mistake I've confessed here, it's the Minister of Health's fault. And it's also a lesson for the Minister who certainly doesn't support this. Absolutely not. And no one in the government supports it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u93	Thank you. This almost ran out of time for the Prime Minister's intervention. There would no longer be time to give another interview, so we will move on, that is, to an interview on the members of the government that I welcome here. The two gentlemen of the ministers. And now I call on Mrs Tereza Hyťhová, who I have just seen here - she is here, yes - to give oral interpelation to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, and thus launch a block of government members' replies to oral interpelations. This interpelation will concern the COVID - Swimming Pool subsidy program. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u94	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Minister Havlíček, we all know that we are at a very difficult time when help from the state needs many areas, our businessmen, etc. Thus, the problem arises in all areas. I read the report of 26. 11. 2020 and I dare quote from Novinek.cz . This is the situation of swimming pools, water parks, simply swimming grounds, which unfortunately have not reached any compensation to date and therefore have no financial support from the state. [[16.00 hours]] Just to clarify the facts. Swimming pools and water parks were closed for 118 days this year. In the third degree according to the table, there could be 10 persons for indoor events and indoor swimming pools, so only 10 persons can be there, 50 persons in the second stage and 100 persons in the first stage. For the larger areas of this regulation - I think we can all agree, I am talking about the big surprises, where there are many people - this does not make sense, and therefore it does not pay to open the water parks either. My question is whether the government is planning some kind of compensatory bonus, some kind of program for these pools, because the Czech Tourism Union has already proposed this. She proposed a subsidy program COVID - Swimming pools, which could just be used so that the pools wouldn't have to close, so that they wouldn't just go bankrupt and have some support, because some pools might just not be able to handle this financially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u95	Thank you. Thank you for keeping time. I'm gonna ask for more peace in the room. I welcome the incoming ministers, and, Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u96	Hello again, everyone. Thank you for asking. I'd just like to clarify some of the details of what you presented. Firstly, with regard to general support, the support for entrepreneurs, businessmen, eseróčka and let's just say most of the business sector is not bad. At this point, it's already over 200 billion crowns. The whole economy, which makes the vast part of it entrepreneurs, is at the level of CZK 250 billion. And, of course, there are programs that are of a general nature, whether it's wage compensation or rent compensation, and then there are very specific programs that go into individual areas, sectors that are really very sensitively affected, whether it's part of the culture, or it's like carriers, etc. Only the tradesmen have already paid 60 billion crowns, which amounts to almost 100 thousand per businessman, plus of course the infirmary, plus rent, plus possibly employees etc. As far as swimming pools are concerned, I'm just making it clear that in the third group, at that level three, it's not ten people anymore, but it's one on 15 square meters, so, to a large extent, they can work there today without a problem. It may not be exactly ideal yet, as they would have imagined, but the larger water parks can really go today, and it is also necessary for several hundred people, which may be a bit unpleasant for culture that they claim, and to a large extent even rightly need to be given priority to swimming pools over some cultural events. As for the programs, there was a possibility to draw a pool rental program. That means if someone was renting, they could compensate for 100 percent of the rent for the time they closed. We put it for three months, 50 percent, but since it was closed for 1.5 months, it's going to be 100 percent for that period, and it could draw 100 percent pay compensation on all employees, plus all the contributions that are. In other words, at that level, most entrepreneurs who have closed down are not in the group any more specific support. We really only gave specific support to those groups where we saw that they did not have the opportunity to achieve another support. Let me give a typical example of COVID - Bus, which was the support specifically for long-distance, or let's say bus carriers that run for schools, kindergartens, tour transport etc., and for them any support in terms of rent made no sense at all, because they only have buses for leasing, and in a way the support for employees didn't make any sense because they didn't have those employees. Those are small companies, companies where they have two or three people. This means, for them, we have created this very specific support, which in a way compensated them for what they would not have received elsewhere. While the pools, however I'm not saying that the situation is ideal for them, as it is not for most entrepreneurs, we realize that, after all, the rent and the employees could have used it. At the same time, let us also note that a number of public pools and swimming pools are owned by regions and owned by municipalities, and I can imagine that the regions and municipalities should approach this responsibly and could also support them. It cannot wait only in everything for the state, because if the municipality has set it up or the county, I suppose there could also be some resources to support these organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u97	Thank you. The Member will be interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u98	I thank the Minister. As he defended the support for businessmen here, I totally agree with that. I don't want to say at all, nor would I dare say that the state does nothing for businessmen in general, that is certainly not true, but I just wanted to say if the Minister knows how much, for example, the water parks cost daily. It's about 600,000 crowns. And actually because of government restrictions, because of coronavirus, etc. Czech swimming pools also had to drain at least 400,000 cubic meters of water. And as you said, they could actually draw, you're absolutely right. Yes, they could draw, use the programme to promote employment Antivirus or ask for a contribution to commercial rent. I'm sure we can agree on that. But even so, I think that the support is simply minimal, and despite the restrictions you said, even if it was one person at 15 meters, I think that the traffic is really going to be very, very limited, and it's trivial for the water parks and swimming pools. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u99	Thank you. The Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u100	Yes, I agree with you. You said that in principle, even with regard to the support we're giving. There's nothing to say. I admit one thing. We're not going to be able to do a hundred percent saturation of all the segments that are. For some, it's a little more fair, less. I agree with you on one thing, you're right, the cost of releasing water, etc. There they are, and it's just a little bit more specific than the others. But we really do have other business segments such as cinemas, trade fairs, of course tourism etc., which really don't have the opportunity to draw anything at the moment, but they're even worse off. So we're trying to balance it and do it fair and square. And I believe that now the situation is better for those pools because they have the opportunity to start running, and that one person at 15 meters I think is quite acceptable to them and can be done at this moment. But otherwise, of course, I agree, it's not entirely ideal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u101	Thank you. And now Mr Janda will intersect Minister Petříček on the position of the Czech Republic to close down winter centres. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u102	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, your colleague from your side teased me that I would find snow everywhere and why I would ask the Foreign Minister, but you will understand immediately, because I asked a similar question both to the Prime Minister, so I will also ask Minister Havlíček and Minister Blatnýý if it is my turn. The Coronavirus crisis hit the specific segment of the travel hand and sport, which are ski and mountain resorts in view of the coming winter season. Their opening and functioning is fundamentally influenced by the Government's decision to close by 12 December. I will just stress that these are 45 thousand jobs and losses of up to CZK 20 billion. Operators, as well as visitors to ski and winter resorts, rightly ask what will happen to them. Moreover, confusion in response to this absolutely crucial question is brought by individual EU countries and representatives of their countries, such as Italy and Germany. Chancellor Angela Merkel even announced a complete closure by 10 January and there is a very serious talk about a pan-European common approach not only at the closure of the centres but also at the entire borders. However, unlike Austria, I have not noticed the position of the Czech Government today, and I therefore ask you: Is the government with the EU countries on a single ban on the operation of winter centres throughout Europe? Is the government preparing for this meeting and taking any steps in communication with other countries? In particular, what is and what will be the position of the Czech Republic on these common restrictions?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u103	Thank you, and the Minister will answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u104	Mr President, honourable Members, regulation or question of the operation of ski centres is primarily in the gesture of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Industry and Trade following a valid safeguard measure, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is monitoring the situation and discussion within the EU, where, unfortunately, there has not yet been any agreement and reconciliation of national approaches to this issue. Most Member States are taking the issue into account the current domestic epidemiological situation in that State. As I mentioned, most countries are based on the epidemiological situation, and at this time most relevant EU countries have also chosen a more restrictive approach by the end of the year, with a view of possible relaxation during January, whether in the case of operation itself, as well as rules relating to travel. [[16.10 hours]] I can give the very example of Austria, which decided yesterday to postpone the opening of ski resorts, slopes up to 24 December 2020, although the opening was originally planned from 7 December. At the same time, it also extends the period of more restrictive travel arrangements in the period from 7 to 10 January, I can add, very likely hotels will not be opened, so the possibility of using the services of ski resorts in Austria is primarily for the local clientele. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs regularly communicates with neighbouring countries in particular for this purpose. The topic has already been addressed at the level of the government, and we are communicating with Minister Blatný about this. Our approach was based on the fact that we want to coordinate with neighbouring countries as a matter of priority, so that these conditions are comparable, and also, let me say, there is no more massive relocation of clients of ski centres between Member States. I would like to remind you that this year in February the epidemiological situation in Europe started to deteriorate in northern Italy and to a large extent ski tourism contributed to this. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u105	Thank you. The Member will be interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u106	Thank you for the floor. I just want to thank the Minister for giving me a clear answer against the Prime Minister again. Well, I thank him for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u107	Thank you. Okay. We will move on to another interview where Mr Kolářík will interpel the Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Schillerová on the compensation bonus of the CFI in insolvency. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister Schillerová, I have a very clear and brief question about the compensation bonus for the self-employed person you are paying. My point is, there's a big difference, and there's a lot of people turning to me, people who are in detention and who are in insolvency. Those who are in execution are entitled to a compensation bonus, and those who are in insolvency do not have it. So I wanted to ask you what's the reason there's such a difference. Because, of course, even the people in insolvency that the state shut down the establishment, and now they can't live up to their agreements with the insolvency court and the insolvency administrator, and they're in jeopardy with the entire debt-deprived process, they might be able to come back. So I want to ask if it was an intention and if there's any reason why it is, or if it was just an omission, and if you're planning on making things right and adding up to those people who are in insolvency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u109	Thank you. Thank you for not spending time. Madam Secretary will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Member, I get very many questions, without your interpellation, but of course I will be happy to answer them every day. This rule is explicitly stated in the law, you are right, in the Act on Compensation Bonus, the Chamber of Deputies approved it, so it went through a legislative process and cannot deviate from legal practice at all from this legislative regulation. I guess we don't have to explain that. The compensation bonus is one of the forms of so-called public support. Although it is a tax bonus that is specific in a number of questions, we have already said many times here, so the nature of public support is common to it, for example, with subsidies, and also a compensatory bonus must therefore be governed by general rules which, in particular, lay down European legislation for drawing public support. Public aid constitutes a kind of advantage for certain operators in the market before others and is therefore compatible with the rules of the internal market of the European Union only subject to the conditions laid down. In the context of the various support granted across European countries in response to the current pandemic, the European Commission adopted a so-called temporary framework for State aid measures to support the economy in the current spread of Coronavirus COVID-19 on 19 March 2020. It sets out some more benevolent conditions for the granting of public aid in the current situation. If these conditions are complied with, such aid shall also be deemed to comply with the rules of the internal market of the European Union. One of these conditions, and I am getting to what I have to say, is that the beneficiary is not bankrupt. Therefore, in order to meet the requirements of that temporary framework, this rule must also be laid down for beneficiaries of the compensatory bonus. And the condition of absence of bankruptcy is a completely standard condition for all grant schemes, which, like the compensation bonus, are public support. This applies not only in general but also in the case of current subsidy programmes responding to the current epidemic. A similar condition is, for example, for the COVID - Rent, COVID - Culture, COVID - Accommodation, infirmary for the self-employed, and in some cases it is even more strictly set, it is not for the compensation bonus that it must not even be in execution. That's not what we're here to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u111	Thank you. The Member will respond with an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u112	I'm glad it wasn't an omission, but it has these reasons that you've all mentioned here. But I would like to establish whether we can invent or do something for those people who are in that insolvency and are not entitled because they were counting on it. And I'm guessing that there wasn't an exception in the spring, and they could get the bonus in the spring. And they were surprised this fall that they couldn't really. So if the Ministry can come up with any solution that meets all the legal frameworks and the demands of the European Union that we should do to these people - because these people are trying to do something with their lives, try to return to the economy, work, deal with the insolvency administrator, they are under supervision, open a small shop, and now, actually, because of the coronavirus, they are shut down from the state's regulations and cannot fulfill their obligations towards the insolvency administrator and the insolvency court. And actually, the whole process of their return to the economy is in jeopardy. So if we could maybe come up with something together that could help them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u113	Thank you. The Minister will respond to an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u114	From the point of view of support, Mr. Ambassador, I don't think we can think of anything because it's in all programs like this. I realize that. First of all, I want to remind you, we have a sturdy social system here that won't let anyone down. If this person gets into these problems, and I think that even here in the attic - I'm not really in the details right now because it's not my gesture - but on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, you are also debating certain issues of insolvency, debt relief and so on. So this is probably the best way to mitigate these impacts, to refer to the social system. But from the point of view of support, direct support, now, at this point, we can't think of anything. And it was so, of course, in the spring, because the European Commission, if the condition were not there, would not even have made the legal amendment. We had to have the compensatory bonus notified by the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u115	Thank you. And we'll move on. Member Jurečka will intersect Minister Blatný on priority health care for members of the Mafra Premium Club. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u116	Good afternoon, Mr President, colleagues. Dear Minister. I'm turning to you with an interview about what you say as Minister of Health about what happened on idnes.cz this week, when this server stated on its website that subscribers who will be members of the so-called premium club can arrange a priority order for magnetic resonance imaging, oncogynecological prevention or orthopedic surgery of large joints, such as hips or knees. It even says that readers probably know that some of these treatments are waiting for months, even more than a year. That's all there was to it. And he's offering these premium members to make it quicker, and at the same time it's been specified that some operations are covered by health insurance, that's where it was mentioned. I wonder what you, as Minister of Health, say about this procedure. Because from the legally available information I've been researching, I feel it's illegal, it's against the law. From my point of view, it's immoral, unethical, and I don't think it's normal for Agrofert, who is connected to the family of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, to tell his readers in this way: if you're any more loyal to us here, we're offering you such a preferred rank compared to other patients. I think that the medical and medical services available should be for all without distinction and on the basis of a condition that will be assessed by a doctor who needs it sooner or later. And I have one more request if you could stand up for medical students who have a duty to work, so that the compensation that is provided to them under the law of crisis is not taxed or imposed on health insurance, because it also seems to be inconsistent. And I'm saying that here because I don't think I'm gonna get the honor of intersecting the secretary on this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u117	Time. Thank you for the precise respect of time and the questions, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u118	Good afternoon, Mr President. So the information you're talking about is probably coming from very similar sources. I also know them from the media, I don't know about the specific conditions of the program or any particular other experience. However, it is true that the Public Health Insurance Act prohibits health service providers directly from receiving any additional financial benefits for health services that are covered, which is not the case, because there I understood it so that it is not directly linked to any payment. However, according to the information available, most of the health services thus offered are preferred to cover health insurance. For example, you were talking about the orthopedic surgery and the like. If such a preferential treatment, albeit for any mediated remuneration, benefit or otherwise, were to take place, then whoever provides these services and who actually has a contract with the health insurance company, could actually act in violation of the health insurance contract. In other words, if someone wanted to favor or modify the services provided under health insurance to different people in some way, then it would really be a breach of the contract. This contract provides, inter alia, that the provider of health services must not impair the availability of health care paid by the insurance undertaking through the preferential provision of care paid by other means. That's what the diction sounds like. However, if this were the case, in other words, if someone who has a contract with a health insurance company had preferred part of their clients on the basis of some benefit to someone else, then the penalty resulting from the contract may be imposed by the health insurance undertaking that is concerned with the breach of the contract. There's no way the Ministry of Health can do that. There are no legal or contractual instruments for this. I'm just pointing that out. But if, in this case, the availability for other patients is impaired or not, I can't assess that right now, and it's up to the health insurance company to assess it. According to the information I have at my disposal, and again, again, from the media rather than from any other solid space, the offer may have been changed only to the guarantee of the time when it will be implemented. That means, I think the last piece of information was that the operation would be performed within 60 days. So if I'm to sum it up, if someone really favors the health insurance service of one citizen or one insured person before another, possibly in connection with some membership, payoff and so on, then it would be, it could be a breach of the contract and the penalty should be imposed by the insurance company. If this is not the case, then neither the insurance company nor the Ministry of Health has the possibility to apply any sanctions. I hope I answered that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u119	Thank you. The Member will be interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u120	Thank you, Minister. From what you've said, it's based on what's been told, even after the adjustment, so if we're talking, for example, hip joints, knee replacements and the like, it's obvious that the waiting time here is longer than 60 days, so even after the adjustment, it's still promised that there's only a limit to those 60 days, from my point of view, it's contrary to what you said earlier. So if you could at least give some incentive to health insurance companies to investigate it, from the Minister's position. Though you as Minister, I understand that you have no specific instrument in this matter, but I think you can give the incentive, or if you talk to your Prime Minister about it, because it indirectly falls into the holding that his family owns. It seems logical to me if he was a colleague that I would be sitting with on a team that I would probably want to talk to him about, because it really seems not only illegal, but especially unethical. Just tell someone if you're gonna be here at our premium club, we're gonna get you a premium health service, so that seems really unfair to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u121	Thank you. Will the Minister respond to an additional question? It will be, please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Ambassador, what I can do is I can give the initiative to review health insurance companies, VZPs and union insurance companies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u123	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. The next person to interpelate is Mrs Richterová, who will interpel Mr Jan Blatný on the issue of central hygiene management. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u124	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I would like to talk about what this amendment of the law wants to achieve, or this change, about the objective, because we simply need to maintain the capacity of sanitary stations at the local level at the fires that occur locally and, at the same time, according to the court of the people I consult, we need to find out, in particular, what powers the Ministry of Health has already had in relation to the management of those regional health stations, and perhaps it has not taken full advantage of them. As regards the objective of ensuring smooth coordination across the Republic in a pandemic situation, I wonder if, for example, the pandemic plan and how it was to be updated, but also the concept of sanitary service and primary prevention in the protection of public health, have been evaluated. This is a concept that has previously been evaluated on the ground of parliamentary and senate committees, and in recent years, as far as I know, no one has been watching over the implementation and driven. They're publicly available documents, that's what I'm based on. Likewise, it is already being dealt with in the Public Health Act today - and I would like to quote a little - that the Ministry of Health actually manages and controls regional sanitation stations and coordinates the cooperation of public health authorities, the Ministry of Health can order these extraordinary measures in the event of an epidemic and the risk of its emergence and in the event of emergencies it has powers when they are to be implemented nationwide or in the territory of several regions. Then, of course, I consulted with the State Service, and once again, the Ministry has great powers, because it has the State Secretary and he directs the activities related to the organizational arrangements. [[Time.]] So all of this is asking me what could have been better.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u125	Thank you. I will ask the Minister for an answer and ask the Members in the Chamber if they would stop discussing with each other, how few of us are here, so everything is heard. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u126	Mr President, dear Members, that part of those points has probably already been mentioned by the Prime Minister in his reply to Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková, but I will repeat those essential points. The fact is, and it is necessary to know that at the moment it is actually parties to sanitary services, as it was modified during the last changes a certain time ago, it is 14 relatively independent regional sanitary stations, in another way 14 relatively separate units. I do not make it any less difficult for them to do their responsible work and that they are currently overloaded and that everyone is trying to work well. However, during the period of the fight against the epidemic, this has proved to be a situation that is not effective enough, and their coordination through the Ministry of Health is essentially difficult. You mentioned the two ways that currently exist, and they themselves describe it. Because the Department of Hygiene is governed by the Secretary of State as an office under service law, but only by method is it managed by the Chief Hygiene. This means that some executive power of this - and in addition, the hygienist and the state secretary are people who are not subordinate to each other, and it cannot even be ensured that completely any cohesion or specific functional and sufficiently secure, or a sufficiently sure way to manage this whole thing. In fact, the Regional Hygiene Stations are currently separate administrations and it should be said that the final decision, the final decision fully depends on the particular director of the Regional Hygiene Station. [[16.30 hours]] In many aspects there are differences, or if you want disunity in the performance of the state administration. We can see this now, when there is often an interaction between the management of the county and the management of the sanitation station. I believe that always in good faith, but the result is that procedures in individual areas can really differ and basically the possibility of central management of the entire state, of the entire service is not ensured. Under normal circumstances, it's probably not so much needed, but in the current situation, I see it as something that potentially threatens us. There is, inter alia, a different interpretation, including obligations arising from legislation, a different form of administrative punishment or ordering, etc. The Department of Health is aware of these differences. In the case of managing the epidemic, even after a few months, it has not been effective to bring procedures to a uniform level, I say again that is simply the case. And basically, somehow, that somehow managed to manage the whole system in a uniform way at least efficiently is due to a lot of structures that were built in parallel. It's not a criticism of the sanitation station. It's just a description of the current state. Of course, it couldn't have worked without the sanitation stations, but we don't have the use of uniform IT tools, we don't have uniform procedures in crisis situations, we don't have the possibility of effective management and coordination of all those sanitary stations. And for these reasons, and only for these reasons, the proposal envisages creating a central body. The central authority will then have the authority to manage the management of the individual sanitary stations in a truly direct manner. It's just going to be a relationship between a superior and a subordinate, which I don't think of as bad again, but it's just a description of the event that's absolutely necessary in that crisis situation. And I don't think it's just in a crisis state. The new office with a single central director will then ensure consistency in management and procedure in the field of sanitary services. And once again, I am just stressing, and I have said this several times, that there is no need to release anyone or to carry out any major restructuring in those jobs, but to ensure that the central management of the entire system across the Republic is possible. The internal structure of the distribution of the territorial workplaces, their occupation, the systematicisation will be the responsibility of the director, and, in addition to the state sanitary service, the supervisory authority will, of course, have its main health care professional, who will be subordinate to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u127	Well, I thank the Minister for keeping time. And I will ask the honourable Member if he is interested in asking an additional question. I see that's the case. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u128	I thank the Minister for the first part of the answer. But it didn't say the key stuff. If there's been an evaluation of the hygiene management so far. If all the tools you have were really used. Because from what I know, I'm more affected by the fact that it's now forbidden those county hygienists to actually communicate with the media, to criticize things publicly, they've just been silenced in their expertise. And now we should have an analysis of how this will improve and why. We should have an analysis of how the plan, the hygiene service concept, the pandemic plan were not evaluated. How did the expertise fail at the level of central management? How is this centralization supposed to prevent it from happening again? And how is it that these powers aren't enough today when the State Secretary's orders are coordinated with the Chief Hygiene? Are they both below you? Are they both below you as Minister? And then the question is, are we missing an audit, an evaluation of how the preparation actually took place and the first wave? [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u129	The Minister wants to answer. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u130	Thank you. Just for a very short time. I don't think it was some kind of silence. I'm just pointing out what would have happened if everyone in the region had treated the epidemic differently, and that could have happened in real life, there were such signs. That would be considered a great danger to us all many times. The Pandemic Plan, which the Czech Republic has so far, is only set up for other diseases, therefore it was used so called. Type plan, but I'm not going to go into detail here. I agree with you that this is an area that deserves further discussion and further detailed treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u131	Well, thank you. Next, Mr. Petr Třešňák, also Mr. Minister of Health Jan Blatný, will be interviewed. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u132	Good afternoon. Dear Minister, I have already once opened the issue of vaccine preparedness against COVID-19 to the Health Committee, where you have answered questions relating mainly to vaccine distribution and, in general, to the process of updating the vaccination strategy. However, allow me to re-open this topic also in connection with how, for example, its readiness to publicly present its neighbouring Germany. Because the Minister of Health of the Federal Republic of Germany called on individual federal states to complete the construction of vaccination centres this week as early as December 15. Germany has been ready to vaccinate since mid-December, which means that the first citizens of the Federal Republic will be vaccinated in mid-January. In this context, for example, Berlin is preparing six vaccination centres, e.g. former Tegel and Tempelhof airport, Velodrom in Prenzlauer Berg or Erika Hessová Winter Stadium. Then much progress was made by Bavaria. According to a statement by the Minister of Health of the Free State of Bavaria, Bavaria now has 2,500 doctors who are bound to receive vaccination support. [[from]] In this context, I ask you what vaccination plan the Czech Republic intends to follow. I note here that even if we were much less ambitious than Germany and our plan was to inoculate 60% of the population in the next six months, each with two doses, half a million people each week should be vaccinated. Since the program will be running for some time, the effectiveness of the vaccine is not 100%, and the same number of people does not come every day, approximately 750 thousand people a week need to be created for vaccination. I therefore ask where and how you want to create these vaccines, or where they will stand and when they will be opened, or how many doctors you have contracted to work in these centres. And if there is no concrete solution that I have mentioned here, then I will ask for an explanation. [[Attention on time.]] I'll finish the sentence. How do you plan to proceed with vaccinations of three-quarters of a million people a week in the practice doctors' offices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u133	Thank you. Let us try to keep the time to ask questions. And I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Member, in general, as I have said repeatedly, the vaccination strategy, the basic one, will be submitted to the government on Monday next week, and then the actual implementing decree, which is now being drawn up, must be submitted to the government. What will be the basis of the vaccination centers is, as is the case with the testing, the backbone network of hospitals and the practice of practitioners. We've talked to both of them before. Now, I don't want to talk about other details that aren't done, and I don't want to cause too much passion, because we are currently using the same network for planned testing, so we need to realize that there is a great burden on these people. Everything will be prepared in such a way that we do not burden in parallel with two different things. Please note that not all vaccines are two doses, that some of the vaccines we are going to use are single doses. As far as logistics is concerned, we all know that Pfizer's vaccine is also logistically provided by its own supplier, respectively. the manufacturer. Germany has a slightly different strategy. Germany has purchased multiples, roughly 300 million, if I'm not mistaken, for its 80 million people, it has ordered a much larger number of vaccines. He'll probably go a little differently. We plan about 1.5 times the number, we can buy up to 1.5 times the number of people, like many other countries. So Germany's a little special in this. [[16.40 hours]] It must be said that it cannot be assumed that in the first weeks we will inoculate three quarters of millions of people a week or more. There won't be that many vaccines. The vaccines will be delivered gradually, which is why priority is given to this strategy. First there will be people over 65 years of age, or older people, and people with additional diseases. Then it's gonna be paramedics, not all of them, but primarily those who provide the critical structure of those hospitals, that is, doctors in intensive care units, UVPs and so on. So it's going to be thousands or tens of thousands of people. And this system, as ready as it is, is able to handle it. And yes, it is as you expect. When everything is as planned and the vaccination of about five million people, which is about 60, 70 percent of the adult population, should be completed at the end of the summer of next year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u135	Thank you. The Member is not interested in the supplementary question, so we will proceed to another interpelation and that is the interpelation of Mrs Věra Kovářová to the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u136	Dear Minister, next year we will have a very important anniversary, namely 1100 years since the tragic death of the Czech saint Princess Ludmila. It will therefore be an event of at least national importance, if not with overlap and beyond the Czech Republic. This importance was also acknowledged by your predecessor, Minister of Culture Daniel Hermann, who took over the patronage of events to honor the anniversary of svatý Ludmila's martyrdom, entitled "St. Ludmila 1100 years old," which has been taking place since 2016 and will culminate in the national pilgrimage to Tetin next year. I am aware of the importance of this anniversary, and that is why I tabled an amendment yesterday in the second reading of the draft Act on the State Budget for 2021, which should move the five million crowns to your resort to finance events related to this very anniversary. I believe that this is a negligible amount for the state budget, but it is a very significant financial amount and support for the organizers of the Tetin National Fair. Dear Minister, I believe you will agree with me that the year of St. Ludmila will be an important anniversary in Czech history. However, I would like to ask your opinion whether you will support my amendment and, at the same time, I would also like to ask you to support this amendment and, if necessary, a binding promise that the Ministry of Culture will support such an important action.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u137	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u138	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to say that I have met or there have been more meetings with representatives of the Holy Ludmila 100 Association during the last year, so I have been informed about the events that were going on next year. I think that the plan, or the plans that were mentioned during those meetings, will probably not be realized to the extent that was planned, especially because we have no idea what 2021 will look like. This means the extent of what will be possible and when it will be possible, it will actually be decided. However, what we agreed with the representatives of the association was that they applied to the selection procedure to support important cultural events and activities, and the agreement worked because they applied to the events they were planning. The main thing is the pilgrimage that is being held on this occasion. So I think they're asking for CZK 4.5 million. So given what we're counting on for next year and what resources we have for this, even if I can't speak for the expert group or the committee that will decide on the allocation of the funds, I wouldn't completely anticipate that, but I still think there's nothing to prevent them from getting the funds they're demanding most likely to. So I'd say what we were arguing about and what they asked for, so I think we for the Ministry of Culture are capable of fulfilling the commitment we gave them. And I would like to say that for me, I have no idea, of course, what that year will look like and to what extent it will be possible to do so. But whatever it is, whatever it is, whatever it is that we promised what they asked for, we're able to guarantee it. I'm just pointing out that we're not really the only one involved, because I also know that the Archbishopship of Prague plays an important role, for example. And I even know that there have been some meetings where some coordination takes place, so I think we're quite well informed about it. All I don't know and what I can't predict is exactly what that year is going to look like and what the anniversary is -- there's more of that anniversary, it's not just Saint Ludmila, although this 1 100 anniversary is, of course, something special -- so I have no idea at this point how it's all going to work out. First of all, in the first half of the year, I have some doubts that such types of events as larger meetings will be possible. But if you need it by September, there's a chance. So I think if we're a little lucky, it's going to happen, and I say for myself, for the Ministry of Culture, we're able to do what we're committed to, and we're actually pre-negotiated in this case with St. Ludmila 100.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u139	Thank you. Does the honourable Member have an interest in asking a supplementary question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u140	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. You've made me very happy, and I think by guaranteeing that the funds will be provided. You will also please those who have been working on it for several years. The municipality of Tetin invested very important funds in the improvement of the village. The Association of St. Ludmila organized a number of municipalities. Other cities and municipalities in the surrounding area participate in these events every year and support them and, of course, a number of volunteers who contribute to guaranteeing that the event will actually succeed. I am still asking whether or not you will support the amendment. And I just have to conclude by saying that if these funds are able to get to this particular fair, it will be important, because the entire region is living on this important event. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u141	Thank you. Next in line is Mrs Golasowská with an interview with the Minister of Health Jan Blatný. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, in recent weeks, the public has been very concerned about the situation of VZP's approach to the treatment of Anežka Táborská, who suffers from multiple sclerosis. After her son was born, her illness started to deteriorate sharply and doctors recommended Lemtrada, but the VZP refused to pay for the cost of this expensive drug. The insurance company has been asked to cash in seven times, always without success. In the end, the public collection, which brought the required amount, even exceeded it considerably. Unfortunately, the state hospital refused to administer the drug, so Mrs. Anežka had to go a long way several hundred miles to a Teplice hospital where they were willing to administer the drug. I believe, Minister, that there are more people with similar fates, that they could get a cure to help them, but that they are beyond their financial capabilities. And I ask, Minister, whether you are preparing any measures in cooperation with insurance companies or with the government, so that such situations do not occur and that the sick can receive the necessary medications, including the application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u143	I also thank you and ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Madames, ladies and gentlemen, I am, of course, sorry for the complicated approach of the patient to treatment, but the provision and reimbursement of those health services from public health insurance has some rules that come under the existing law. From the information I have, it was qualified that the patient did not meet the indicative criteria that the product has for a standard public health insurance payment, and in this case the so-called exceptional remuneration is taken into account under the provisions of Section 16 of the Public Health Insurance Act, in the absence - I quote - of other paid treatments taking into account the patient's medical condition. In this case, the decision to fulfil the conditions laid down in this paragraph is conferred on health insurance undertakings by the law, and their procedure must also comply with the law. Therefore, formal assessment, evidence is in progress, the patient has the opportunity to appeal or to defend himself by legal proceedings. But it must be said that, in the current situation, it is always a commissional assessment and the insurance company decides whether it is or is not applicable under this paragraph. In this case, the health insurance company did not find that the conditions for reimbursement of public health insurance were met and therefore states that it did not approve the treatment. As regards the procedure of the Olomouc hospital, which refused to administer the medicinal product to the patient, even though the patient paid it out of her own funds, I can only say that it is not true that only medicinal products covered by public health insurance can be applied to the patient. That's not true. However, I do not know whether the hospital has actually given this reason, because the information I have is really only from the media. Probably the same way you are. I can only point out that the administration of the medicinal product, in this case Lemtrada, may be associated with specific adverse events and therefore it is not possible to rule out the situation that the treating physician assessed its administration as dangerous at that time and decided this way. Luckily, somehow, not optimally, it worked out. But what I think is a systemic solution, I would like to remind you that precisely in order to increase the transparency and simplification of insured persons' access to costly treatment, the Ministry of Health has prepared a rather fundamental amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act, which should still be submitted for their first reading at this House meeting and which focuses, in particular, on Section 16, where it should simplify and standardise the approach of patients, especially patients who need innovative medicines or so-called orphane drugs, which means medicines that are for a small number of people. There is also significantly reduced all the bureaucracy you are talking about, and basically in most cases should be approved and priori, even the drug will be assessed in a different way, because the classic assessment of cost efficiency in small numbers of patients is not possible. The goal is for those who are not responsible for having an exceptional disease and needing an expensive cure to get to it. So I'd be happy if you'd support this novel later. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u145	Thank you, too. The honourable Member is not interested in an additional question. I ask Mr Marek the Výborný to ask a question and an interview with Minister Jan Blatný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u146	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Dear Minister, I am quite sure that this dialogue will be absolutely relevant to you and not as unnecessarily emotional as the Prime Minister. Interpelation concerns the same thing, which is why I'm not going to repeat it. I think it's pointless, but I'm going to allow you to ask for assurances as a Gesture Minister, and now it's not about the very substance that you and colleague Richterová have been discussing here. I also believe that it is appropriate to address the unification of that decentralised health administration, which I would never dare dispute. However, I want to hear from you the assurance that the Prime Minister mentioned here and it was new compared to your speech at the press conference on Monday after the Government meeting, namely that the bill, if it concerns fundamental human rights and freedoms - I am referring mainly to the paragraph in question, which introduces a completely new competence of the Chief Hygiene, whether it concerns the tracing of the phones of citizens of the Czech Republic, whether they are or are potentially infected, whether it concerns restrictions on trade, services, sports facilities, even schools, school closures, universities - will actually be removed from this law before they arrive in the Chamber of Deputies. That the government will therefore discuss, say, a revision of the functioning of the public health administration, but without such interference, and that these matters will be dealt with as it should be, that is, in the context of the crisis legislation which Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Hamáček is working on in cooperation with the parliamentary political parties here as well. And here, unfortunately, I have to say, the government is very late. Mr. Vice Prime Minister already promised in May that it would be during September, and it is not here today. Those discussions are ongoing and I am convinced that these things, which really affect crisis legislation, have their place in the law on state security, virtually. in the crisis law. So I would only ask for this assurance that, in fact, in this way, as the Prime Minister here said today, it was created by some misstep of your subordinate officials, that it would indeed be so. [[Time warning]] Thank you very much for your assurance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u147	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Ambassador, ladies and gentlemen, I'll split it in two, if I may. One part is that, at a time when one of the main reasons for this change is to be able to implement horizontal measures in the case of pandemic spread of anything, then at the moment, if we remove the possibility of closing schools all over the country - which is the basic difference, that at present, hygiene, as it is, can perform some kind of intervention or restriction in certain risk areas, but only in those areas. What I consider necessary, if we are to avoid this, and I have therefore understood that this is the call of the entire Chamber of Deputies during the past two sessions, which involved extending the emergency situation to avoid the emergency situation as much as possible, so that when these measures are not possible to be ordered across the board, then it would be meaningless. So I think that the restrictions on personal freedoms, as you say, which concern, for example, that it is possible to limit the opening of schools, limit the opening of shops and, in a similar way, that they make sense of it, because without applying the crisis law with all its passage to emergency conditions, that is, it has a number of other legislative conventions that have been mentioned here in various ways, that maybe this also allows the implementation of a number of other things in a shortened procedure, in a shortened manner, etc., so if we want to be able to regulate the epidemic in a whole country, then these things should remain there. It is, of course, for discussion, but it was conceived with this. It's not a mistake. The moment we want the sanitation service to work across the country, they must have the power to do so. However, it is already in the law, it is only if it is a crisis situation, which, of course, can define a crisis law or something else, and for a time strictly necessary. So it's not like the director of health services and priori does what he wants and declares these things on the basis of his own decision. I think that maybe one of the things that can be considered is the possibility of incorporating the administration into it or something like that. But I'm just pointing out that the system or the principle of making these measures whole world-wide is intentional. It's not a mistake. This is deliberate because otherwise there will not actually be a change compared to the current situation. And the second thing that probably resonated the most was data sharing by mobile operators. And I admit that I was kind of surprised because this resonated the most and it wasn't in any way intended. What's behind this is the creation of so-called memory maps. That's something that currently exists, but it's nothing we can't do without. That means, if this is perceived negatively by society and the public, there is no problem at all letting this part out completely and the law will not lose its strength. So I'm going to divide it into two parts. I would like to work too hard to agree together that, under certain specific conditions, it is possible to implement protective measures nation-wide. And the second thing - any cooperation with mobile operators can be released without any difficulty. It's not really worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u149	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u150	Yes. I'd be happy to fill it in, Minister. So I think it's going to take a little bit more detail to discuss this within the government, because the Prime Minister here has actually spoken a little differently. I can't argue that sanitation stations should be able to be localized. But not all over the place. And that's the thing I see a little differently. Indeed, it is not possible to put in the hands of an official, your Deputy Minister, the Chief Hygiene, the authority to close shops, limit services, close schools and so on. A clerk can't actually do that all over the place. This also conflicts with the lack of control, parliamentary control. These measures must be done by the government in the congregation and must be subject to the control of the Chamber of Deputies. By the way, this is not an invention of the Members, it is a matter which has also been judged by the judicial decisions of the Municipal Court in Prague. Think of the judgment discussed sometime in April or May. That is why the government then abandoned the measures only in the gesture of the Minister of Health, although it had it in its entirety. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So I think this really wants a deeper discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u151	Next, Mr Polanský will speak to Minister Miroslav Toman. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent minister, I have long been interested in the problem of road damage as a result of overloading trucks. Over the last few years, overloaded trucks carrying millions of ccs of wood each year have been significantly negatively affected by road conditions, at a distance of even several hundred kilometers. Roads in the property of municipalities, regions and states enter these trucks from forest roads. I found from the director of the State Company Forest of the Czech Republic that the company does not have any regulatory regulation on the maximum permissible weight of trucks that would be reflected in contracts with external suppliers of services. In the long run, the company does not have the weight and does not do any checks on the weight of the trucks. On the other hand Forests of the Czech Republic have invested 5.5 billion in forest road repairs since 2010. Crowns. Moreover, these investments have been hit by more than 80 per cent over the last two years, which is due to a huge debt for the future. The state-owned company Lesa ČR hereby de facto supports the artificial increase in the profitability of private companies by taking into account the overloading of timber trucks. Needless to say, overloaded timber trucks are a key factor in the devastation of other roads in the property of municipalities, towns, regions and states. Why, then, is the state enterprise of the Forest of the Czech Republic doing nothing in this area? Why does it tolerate overloading timber trucks and thus the devastation of forest roads and other road networks at the expense of its own but also other public budgets? Does that sound like a proper caregiver to you? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u153	Thank you, too. As the Minister is not present, the question will be answered in writing. The next will be Mrs Dana Balcarová, who is not present in the Chamber, so her intervention is failing. The next one will be Mr. František Navrkal. He is present and will interpel Mrs. Marie Benešová, who is not present. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u154	Thank you for the floor. Madam absent Minister, we discussed the question of stopping illegal executions a while ago, and I also contacted your ministry for information on how stopping these cases at individual courts is progressing. Unfortunately, I have been told that you do not follow the process of handling this agenda and that I should turn to individual courts. I confess that I was surprised by such an answer, as your government has repeatedly declared through the mouth of its President Babiš that stopping illegal executions is a priority for you. That is why I would expect you to carefully collect all the necessary data on this priority topic, such as how many cases individual courts have completed and how quickly they are moving away. But according to your answer, you don't have that kind of information. I'd like to ask you, then. Why isn't your ministry still collecting data from the courts as they proceed in the process of stopping illegal executions? Will the Ministry start collecting this data continuously in the future? When does it eventually start happening? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u155	Thank you. It shall also be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Next in line is Mr Martin Baxa with an interview with Minister Karel Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u156	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Mr Vice Prime Minister, I would like to address you on a topic that concerns the field of culture. The model does not allow two ministers to reach out to the Ministry of Industry and Trade, so I will allow you to reach out to the Ministry of Industry and Trade on this interresorative issue, which concerns the culture and scope of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. My question is actually simple, and I'm going to ask it right from the start. Whether the continuation of the COVID - Culture II programme is planned after the failure of the COVID - Culture programme I was declared and the aim of which is to support cultural business entities that have been limited in business activity, if I say so precisely, by saying how this programme is formulated, or by helping entrepreneurs generally in culture, where there is a relatively wide range of subjects, whether they are music agencies, festival business, whether they are private theatres, art-management agencies, but also audiovisions or book market. The present programme was set up on the principle of actual compensation for the failure of the action, or a contribution to the activity that was limited by government restrictions this year. We firmly believe that there will be no such strong restrictions next year, but at the same time we know that undoubtedly the activities of these cultural entities will be seriously affected. In the anti-epidemic system, it is very slow to loosen up, institutions must rely on ticket sales, where people nevertheless show great caution, and on the other hand, they are institutions and events that form an integral part of Czech culture. I therefore firmly believe that the State, in addition to the support provided by the Ministry of Culture, must continue to help these entities, these entrepreneurs in culture, which form an integral part of the cultural offer in our country. So my question is whether the COVID - Culture III programme, which I call this work, is preparing and what it should look like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u157	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u158	Hello again, everyone. Good afternoon. Programme COVID - Culture is really implemented by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. It was a long discussion whether to leave it at the Ministry of Culture or to leave it at the Ministry of Industry, but given that it is more or less an entrepreneur, we finally agreed that our resort was closer to the business sector, so we created an extremely interesting program. Of course, I was very worried about him when we went in because our resort is not a specialist in these support activities. The first challenge, the COVID I program, which was actually those actors in the field of culture who prepared their proposals, we didn't go there with them, so there we were, too, considering that we were relatively restrictive there - it was sometimes in July when it began to breathe, and we thought that it would go well - it had exhausted less than 150 miles. Crowns. And then we sat down with the cultural community again, and I feel really good about the COVID - Culture II program. There has been a lot of honest work done on this, and at this point, it is in the order of 265 miles. plus 443 miles. - I take it from the segments and the purpose of the programme - de facto exhausted, which means that it is simply some 700 miles. The crown, which is very good. The entrepreneurs in that area are at this point, I'm not saying enthusiasm, because of course the culture is, it's not the slightest mistake, but it's basically quite satisfied. And I have to say, the whole business community, their representatives, their associations, the unions are really intensely communicating with our resort, and I feel good about it, meeting them myself. [[17.10 hours]] Logically, this leads us to believe that we should not end up doing this, not because at this point, we're going to have some other area support, but the big question is, what else is going to happen with the segment? Because everything is basically going on, even with certain restrictions, but here we are actually in a situation that costs cinemas, costs theatres, and the question is whether even those agencies or operators or those who organize concerts, smaller bands and so on, if not only when it's started, it will work, but if people aren't worried about going to the concerts and if the whole segment doesn't just, let's say, get a completely different format. And I don't want to be a philosopher here right now or simply estimate how everything is going to develop, but I dare say that two segments at the time of covid and post-covide will be quite fundamentally changed by a certain philosophy of how they will continue to work, and this is a segment of tourism and a segment of culture, because it is undoubted that people will be more cautious next year, people will simply travel according to other rules and most likely also attend cultural events according to other rules. So we're seeing two things here today. It's one thing to consider whether to continue this program and maybe even better finish it and better catch up on what might still be missing today, which I guess I could do. But what I consider to be the most fundamental is to start preparing a real reboot of culture within the meaning of completely new rules and conditions of how these activities will be realized, what will have to be followed there, and to start preparing the public for the fact that culture must start, that culture cannot simply exist without it, that it makes sense, but in another regime, and for that we will have to prepare the actors, but also those customers. So I think it's a wider debate than simply extending the subsidy program, but start preparing the rules and let's say at all a conceptual approach to how bands in clubs will work up to 500 people, or in larger halls and so on, how to organize the whole thing and how to make it possible that the actors will actually survive and at the same time people will not be in danger if they attend their actions. I think it's a huge challenge, and if we don't start dealing with it now, it can really be an industry that's going through hell in the coming months and years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u159	Thank you. The Member is interested in asking an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u160	I agree with you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, in this assessment, even though your visions seem a little dystopian. We believe that it will simply happen that once the major coronavirus waves have subsided, culture will begin to return to its tracks. We don't know if it will be possible to meet at the concert sometime next year with 40,000 other visitors. But the segment of culture, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, which I'm talking about, doesn't just involve a big concert business. It includes the book market, the bookstore, the publishing house, it includes music clubs, that is, the cultural facilities in the field of cultural business, the business that do not need to have some strict epidemic rules dependent, for example, on a large number of visitors, but these establishments or these institutions suffer from this current situation. And I think we can formulate how culture should work in those, say, post-covid times, in the longer term. But those businessmen are gonna need help now. They'll need it from January 1st next year. Therefore, my question points to whether COVID - Culture III is already really preparing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u161	I'll ask the minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u162	We're going to calculate how many resources we're left with from COVID - Culture II, which is going to close now, and we're going to try to do another COVID - Culture, whether it's a threesome or an extension of that two. I think it would make sense and we would have caught the next few weeks. But really what I said in the sense of starting a scheme for cultural events at all - and I agree with that, it's not just concerts, it's a whole range of other activities - is absolutely essential because what many of these activities are about, that's social contact and that's just what it was based on. It's not just that I'm going to listen to something, it's that these people are having fun, that they're just holding hands, that they're just kind of together in some way. And to a large extent, all of this can be threatened a little bit not only because it will be allowed, but if those people are simply interested in visiting it. So we need to set up a regime for them so that we can catch it in time. And otherwise, I agree with the culture, the sequel, it would make sense, and we're already with the minister at this point. We're working on her next thesis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u163	Thank you. Next, Mr Tomáš Martínek will speak to the Minister of Health Jan Blatný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u164	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Health, I would like to ask you how I should interpret the regulations in force in the framework of the PES anti-epidemic system, namely one crucial issue of maximum capacity for outdoor weddings. Even though weddings don't take place much outside because of the winter, in a few months they will start to take place in large quantities. The wedding is usually planned for many months or years directly. Therefore, it is good to clarify how many guests can attend the wedding. Within the table is a box of weddings together with services and funerals. Mass events in the outdoors have their own line, which has higher limits, for example at stage three can be at the wedding up to 30 people, while at the public outdoor event up to 50 people, internal on the contrary ten persons. So how many people can be at an outdoor wedding? It wouldn't seem logical if there had to be fewer people at a wedding outside than, for example, at an outdoor concert or something. The proposal also clearly allows more people at an internal wedding than at other internal events. Therefore, I assume that the limit of weddings, funerals and religious services with lower limits applies only if they are held indoors. I would not be able to justify this discrimination against selected outdoor events, which, moreover, often have much more strict rules. I would therefore like to make official assurances from you that outdoor weddings, similar to outdoor funerals or outdoor services, have the same limit as those that apply to outdoor events. Thank you for your answer and your official statement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u165	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Ambassador, ladies and gentlemen, the conditions for weddings have really been changed a little differently, and this is due to the nature of the event, where the weddings to which you refer cannot be expected, in contrast to outdoor events, to observe sufficient separations. During weddings and wedding celebrations there is long-term contact, weddings usually take much longer than outdoor events such as concerts, there is closer contact, dancing and so on, more often alcohol is consumed, and therefore the risk potential for the wedding is considered higher than for ordinary outdoor events, and therefore the number of permitted persons is really reduced compared to the normal restriction of gathering, which is not distinguished by the type of event, but generally according to the outdoor gathering. So this difference is currently being inserted there intentionally. It's deliberately inserted into the existing table. We are aware that the situation as well as the situation of the epidemic will evolve in some way. From the beginning, we have announced that, after at least six weeks of the current model's duration, that is, at the end of this year, we will re-evaluate it, whether it concerns the tables or possibly the calculation score. I'm sure I don't want to do it before. So at the moment, that's what you're saying. Fortunately, in this case, we have or have a wedding advantage, because really by the end of the year, many weddings will probably not be out, but as it is now set up in the current situation, it is set on purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u167	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u168	So I'm sorry, I was expecting a different answer that you would actually confirm that the outdoor events have the same limit as the outdoor weddings, because I'm not really into it. I don't know if you've ever been to an outdoor techno party, an outdoor concert where people stand about five centimeters apart, jumping there, drinking beer in bulk, that's nothing compared to wedding behavior, this compliance with the epidemiological limits. You're gonna force people to go around calling it a wedding, but they're gonna call it a concert? It's not at all desirable for the Ministry. So I'm begging you, I'm begging you, fix it, unite it, because I just can't really see it, or give me a real justification for what things aren't going to be followed against the outdoor techno party. I'd really like to see that. Because I can't imagine a single thing that's worse than a real outdoor wedding where all the citizens are organized. And eventually, yes, there are some dances and so on, but that's at the techno party, and much worse. That's why I'm asking you, please fix it. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u169	Thank you. The Minister is interested in an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u170	Thank you. Just to make sure there's no misunderstanding. There are no concerts in the current third stage, and nothing like that is allowed. It's not happening at the moment, it can't happen. So stage one, level two at the moment, I'm telling you again, it's probably going to be re-evaluated, we're not going to make it to stage one or two by the end of the year. And as far as we're concerned, on the contrary, there's... there's been an increase in the number at the wedding, although I admit it's still not that, there are bigger weddings, or there might be bigger weddings. But in this current risk, no mass outdoor events of the cultural type are allowed. Not even sports. We're still without spectators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u171	Thank you. Next in line is Mrs Majerová with an interview with Minister Karel Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u172	Thank you. Have a good evening. Dear Minister, although the government you are a member is trying not to call the current situation a lockdown, for many traders it has been a lockdown and it is. That is why the government should also respond to a fair adjustment of compensation for businessmen and entrepreneurs, once again stopping the economy that we personally disagree with in Tricolore. Government measures do not apply only to those whose establishments, shops and offices you have closed and banned. These measures have an impact on other services, although they are not closed. From your transport resort, for example. taxi drivers who are not entitled to a compensatory bonus because they are not directly referred to as limited business. In doing so, the effects of government measures are winding up for them. Their potential customers were and are locked away at home. Even if they want to work, they can't work because they have no one to drive. They were and still are closed cultural, social, sporting events, shops, to this day the restaurant and there was also a curfew. That is why I am asking you how you would like to address this situation. I am being approached not only by taxi drivers from my city in Moravia, Olomouc, but of course from all over the region and Moravia as such. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u173	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u174	Hello again. Thank you for asking. Of course, the lockdown could be discussed a long time, as it is actually perceived or not perceived. We didn't do a lockdown. Lockdown is that everything in the economy is going to close. Even Israel didn't make a lockdown. When we look closer at the relatively hard restrictions that this state has made, they have not touched, for example, industry. But I think we can agree that it is undoubtedly very unpleasant, it is hard and cruel for a number of entrepreneurs. We don't like the economic restrictions we do. And no one's happy that they have to do it. You said, "You've closed, you've forbidden." Yes, but we had to respond to the fact that there has been something here for decades, if not longer. Covid flies all over Europe, the whole world, and there's no country that doesn't do restrictions. If we don't do them, we're in a disastrous situation today. And we can talk about it, and I fully agree with that, which made more sense, which made less sense, because even some countries that inspire each other or simply copy the measures that they are, so not all of them have a very clear view of whether it is better to close this type or this type of economy. And it is clear that Europe and the world are actually very complicated to resist what they are. In any case, because of what you call a lockdown, we have managed to prevent a partial economic closure, prevent uncontrollable spread, and today we are in a position to release it as one of Europe's countries that can afford it. Now, specifically. The cab drivers. Yes, you're right that taxi drivers like tens and hundreds of other segments are affected. By far, it's not just about cab drivers. As far as the transport department is concerned, the transport department must primarily ensure public transport. This means a public service, which is based on rail, which is based on bus transport etc. We have focused, because the Ministry of Transport is mainly responsible for railways, bus transport is in the vast majority in the regions, so we have created support programmes that support public transport at the level of long-distance transport, at the level of commercial transport, we are even beginning to support railway carriers of cargo and at the same time we have created, which you are certainly informed, also specific support for bus carriers who are not the typical public transport, but are driving for schools, kindergartens etc. With the cabs that are today, that might be an interesting number, 36,000 drivers' license holders, my colleagues added it up before the interpellation, and it grew because we changed legislation, and it basically grew by the so-called ones. Shared or shared taxis. In fact, we are already saying that at this point, it is no longer possible to distinguish what anyone is doing on the main and secondary activities. Because if we have them in this one package, then we would have to include those who drive and actually perform a completely different job, whether an activity dependent or another business activity. And there's one more thing to say. I admit that it may not be in all the cities, but in many cities taxis could also ride, and not just taxis, let's say these services, could drive and - Please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u175	Please don't argue outside the microphone here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u176	Do you have a problem with me talking? In a minute, you'll get two minutes without a problem. Without emotion, you'll be able to react. So these services or these cabs could drive and deliver e.g. food. And they deliver for example. products that are from e-shops and have increased by tens of percent. And if I may have had the opportunity to deal with the representatives, because we are dealing with them, these establishments or these operators, such as those so-called. shared cabs, so they said they basically drive and deliver products 24/7. That means they work and they exist. So it's not possible to put everyone in one bag and say that the situation is catastrophic. Many of them were able to obtain and provide very well in this situation, and they do a different type of service, but they survive quite well. This means that we would stick to the fact that they can draw the standard programs that they are, but specific programs for taxi drivers do not seem quite useful at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u177	Now, Madame, you may ask your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u178	I would like to respond because Prague is not the Czech Republic. So maybe the fact that there's a big demand for food imports here in Prague, because it's not cooked here as much as it is in Moravia, is very nice, but it doesn't solve the situation. And I wanted a clear answer to whether the fact that taxi drivers who had it as the main business, who paid mortgages on their cars, which have workshops, are constantly required by different certificates by the creation of other possible taxi services. In the last few months, when a curfew and everything possible and nothing was done, they were not able to carry out this activity. Not to mention, if I went into legal terms, the cab doesn't have two meters apart. So how come their activities weren't banned? That's another thing. All I'm asking you to do is answer if they're thinking about any compensation for them. Period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u179	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u180	I tried to explain that they could and could do another service, another service, that there is demand, and good demand. And maybe you can even find out about the biggest so-called. shared taxi services, which are in the Czech Republic, how they actually drove and how they could work. And I'm sure it wasn't just Prague. But in fact, they can draw standard programs like other entrepreneurs. And we're just saying that we can only specifically support a segment, and it's logical to support one that can't draw other resources. For some reason. I've already said, for example, here today. on the COVID - Bus, because he can hardly draw resources on the employee because he doesn't have any. Thus, although support programmes are of no use to him, a specific program COVID - Bus was created. We also went to some cultural events because they wouldn't fit into the existing programs. But taxis, not to mention that they could drive, at the same time, even though it was obviously reduced to the general public, there is no doubt about it, as other entrepreneurs had lower sales, which there is no doubt, so they could replace it with another service, another service. And many of them were able to replace it very well, so they could draw standard other programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u181	Thank you. Next, Mr Jan Čižinský will speak to the Minister of Health Jan Blatný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u182	Dear Minister, I'm here again with an unmarried couple. Even after the last amendment of the rules for the arrival of unmarried partners for their counterparts in the Czech Republic, for which I thank, one group remains waiting to improve its situation in vain. These are residents from third countries, i.e. citizens of non-EU countries. They can no longer be visited by their unmarried partners, even if they do not need a visa to enter the Czech Republic. Minister, that's my fourth interview on this subject. I'm not happy to be this persistent, and I'm trying to communicate with the Ministry of e-mail on this matter. Unfortunately, I have to say, I don't always get an answer. Your predecessor admitted in response to one of my interventions that these restrictions do not make any sense from an epidemiological point of view and that he will try to ensure that they are abolished. Of course, I don't know, you don't have to have the same opinion as your predecessor, but if you or your subordinates are of the opinion that a ban on entry for unmarried third-country residents makes any sense, then I'd really appreciate it if you could explain what it is. I think there are no rational reasons to exclude this group from the possibility of traveling to their partner. It would be appropriate for the exemption from the general prohibition of entry to apply to them. And I just add that these people have been in this life situation that some of us may not even be able to imagine since March.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u183	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u184	Mr President, Mr Member, I appreciate the dialogue we have been having for a long time. I don't think she's completely unanswered that most of these things have been solved. We try to answer letters or e-mails, but I'm sure you know you can't do it right away because it won't make it. That's not an excuse. I'd just go back to what we're talking about here. It has several different legal levels. There is something else, and I think that it has really been resolved, citizens who are either both citizens of the Czech Republic or those who are both those persons who are residents of the European Union. What you're talking about now is the citizens of a third country. And so I just remind you that the Czech Republic's approach to the conditions of alien entry into our territory is based on the Council of Europe Recommendation 2020/912 of 30 June 2020, the temporary restriction on trips to the European Union, which is not strictly necessary, and the possible abolition of this restriction. This means that it is a different legislation, a different regulation from that of the citizens of the European Union. The main purpose of this Recommendation is joint coordination of measures in relation to travel to third countries and third countries, and the key points are agreement on criteria for identifying epidemiologically safe third countries and then a list of categories of persons who should be allowed to travel to the European Union even if they are travelling from less epidemiologically safe countries. This means that it is not the security or epidemic risk of the individual, but the epidemic risk of the individual countries. At national level, the Council adopted a list of safe third countries, which is updated, and in the event of agreement at European Union level, a classic regime is de facto in place. This means where they are members or persons from safe countries, so there are no restrictions for entry into the Czech Republic in case of visits by nationals from these countries. That recommendation by the Council of the European Union then states to the areas you are concerned that the Member States of the European Union should allow third-country nationals to travel for urgent family reasons. And then there's no respect for the restrictions on safe and dangerous countries. So it is not any family meeting, but a fairly clearly defined reason, however I am aware that the interpretation of urgency is then already on the individual states, and unfortunately the interpretations are not entirely identical. With regard specifically to third-country nationals residing in the Czech Republic and their partners, the possible unification of the family should be governed by valid EU legislation. Recommendations and subsequently Czech protection measures allow entry to third-country nationals who have issued visas or residence permits under the right to family reunification. It also allows them to apply for a visa or residence permit for family reunification. However, the directive governing the above right to family reunification does not fall, and that is true, to unmarried couples and neither the law on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic has taken this category into the circle of persons who may be allowed to merge the family. That's true, so the law is currently set. In this respect, it is also necessary to refer to the concept of citizenship of the European Union. Membership in the European Union has an immediate impact not only on the Member States but also on citizens of those European countries with a stronger legal status than third-country nationals. This is a clear distinction and, among other things, EU citizens have the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States. The privileged position of the citizens of the European Union and their family members is thus based primarily on European Union legislation. Thus, according to the current protection measure of the Ministry of Health of 2 October 2020, which regulates entry into the Czech Republic in order to prevent the introduction of other cases of disease into our country, the entry of third-country citizens who are not on the list of low-risk countries and third-country citizens who have temporary or permanent residence in countries that are not on the list of countries with this low risk is prohibited. That's the problem. This means people who reside or reside in these countries for a long time, so they really are not allowed to do so at the moment. As my predecessors have also informed you, which you referred to, I completely agree that it is very difficult to justify to those who find themselves in this situation. Unfortunately, I have to ask for patience because I believe that you will understand that the situation in the Czech Republic must not only be stabilized first, and that the reckless dislodgement of restrictions could then put us in a rather complex and problematic epidemiological situation. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Time, Minister.]] And as much as it seems to be individuals, it can also be significant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u185	The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u186	Thank you for the analysis. I just want to remind you, these people are here legally, the ones that are involved, and they have a partner in some third country. Those partners are willing to meet any conditions upon arrival - go into quarantine, have tests, just whatever the Ministry says, they're willing to do because they have reason to travel to their counterpart. It's not about tourism, it's about dozens of people. Of course, there are questionnaires to see if this person really has a relationship with the person he's going to see. And so we're talking about the epidemiological risk and the aspect. Wouldn't it just be possible to lay down a condition for this group of dozens of people, to lay down a condition that they will have to meet, perhaps very strict - quarantine, fourteen days, more, less, tests - to make it possible?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u187	Thank you. And the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u188	Very briefly, Mr President. Ambassador, I'm going to ask you to exchange it briefly with the e-mail I'm going to answer, as I'm trying to answer the others. We will try to do something about it in the form of a modification or a new emergency measure that might temporarily address this, but it really needs to be assumed that the most likely option would have to be a 14-day or 10-day quarantine in the Czech Republic. We can discuss this further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u189	Thank you. Next in line is Mrs Karla Maříková, with an interview also to the Minister of Health Jan Blatný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u190	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, the Chief Hygiene Jarmila Rážová has said for the iDNES server that people vaccinated against COVID-19 will be able to use services that could otherwise not have been able without regular repeated testing without passing the test. The Health Minister, Roman Prymula, said that anyone inoculating could be without a mask again. You have said repeatedly that vaccination or vaccination passport will not be mandatory. So how's this gonna work? Do you have it planned in any way, if, in the context of the motivational campaign that your ministry is preparing, the unscathed against COVID-19 disease will be somehow restricted by the use of certain services? And if so, what are some of them? And will their use then be subject to testing? How's this gonna work?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u191	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u192	Thank you, Mr President. Madam, in general, I will just sum up that the strategy, which respects the principle of two basic postulates, firstly, as has been said, vaccination will be voluntary, and secondly, it will be fully covered, has these several parts. For one thing, it is an overview of ingredients and stakeholders, an overview of vaccines, vaccination organisation, vaccination schemes, distribution, an overview of the material needed, indication groups, vaccination phases, reimbursement, quantities, registration, communication and more. In this context, the passports you have mentioned will also be dealt with in correlation with the European Union. I can imagine very well, but I cannot tell you this definition yet, because, on the one hand, the vaccination strategy in those implementing regulations is not yet completed and, on the other hand, we are still waiting for similar information, or we share similar information with other European countries. I will support what Mrs Chief Hygiene has said that the person who will be vaccinated and priori will benefit from the fact that he will probably have easier travel within the European Union and most likely will not be covered by most of the restrictive measures. Today, after all, it was one of the questions in the press conference at the Ministry of Health. And yesterday, a directive was given for the accelerated provision of the vaccination register, which will collect vaccines, vaccination of covid parties, and in the future others, because that's what we're missing. It will be part of the integrated data interface of the resort, which will guarantee the UZIS. So, of course, information about who is and who is not vaccinated, while maintaining all the privacy rules, as well as the IHIS is obliged to do with all the other data with which he has worked for many years in all security bonds, will be available and this information will be available to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u193	There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, I will ask more specifically. If this is not about travelling, will a citizen who does not want to leave the Czech Republic refuse to want to be vaccinated, will it mean any restrictions for him? So let me ask you a specific question. Would he have to wear drapes compared to the unscathed one? Because I suppose, given what I see in the discussions on social networks and in the reactions, that vaccination is not very much of an interest. So I wonder how you're going to proceed. And the next thing you know, you're buying a lot of vaccines. What about the vaccines that won't be used? Can we then offer them to another state, for example? Or, I don't know, will you force, but not so indirectly, society to inoculate?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u195	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u196	Thank you. I'll take it from the end. We're not forcing anyone. Vaccines, as other countries do in case they are not used, can be used, for example, in another state. This is already defined by many countries. I don't think this guy's gonna be penalized, the one he won't be. But the one that's going to be, I'm sure it's going to benefit. It's part of the motivational campaign.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u197	Thank you. And at this moment, Mr Marian Bojko will speak again with an interview with the Minister of Health Jan Blatný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u198	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Mr President. Dear Minister, we have the PES antiepidemic system, which is actually five-stage. But I'm missing a zero. There's no grade zero. There's a lot of restrictions at the first stage, rock concerts can't be held, there's nowhere to be, what happens if there's a grade zero. It didn't sound in the media. Maybe it was said, I haven't been watching the media for a long time because it's just haunting. So I'd like to know the answer to that. Next thing. Now that the shops have opened up and people can finally go to the shops to buy the kids shoes, when I saw those queues before PEPCO, there are hundreds of people standing there. PEPCO opens at 9 o'clock, and people have been standing in line at 8 o'clock to buy kids shoes. That's crazy too. And they're standing there with the kids, because of course they have to try. Those shoes are cheap, not everyone's got thousands on shoes from some brand-new store. We haven't been able to find a cure for this disease in a year. Most people heal at home in quarantine, they don't even know they're sick, but we're gonna vaccinate healthy people. The Prime Minister said today the vaccine would be free. Nothing's free. Someone has to pay for it, always. So it's gonna be paid by insurance companies on the insurance contributions. I confess that I was cut up by a video of Michal Suchánek, where he actually says: We opened the theatres, we opened the cinemas, circuses without spectators. It's like giving your friend who doesn't have hands, an accordion. He'll be happy too, won't he? Or the one who doesn't have legs when you buy him shoes. [[Attention on time.]] So... The time wasn't on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u199	Nobody let you in on that time because they didn't let you in, so I guessed it by the watch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u200	So thank you for being. [[unintelligible, talking off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u201	Minister, please, you have room for your answer. I'm going to ask that the timer be triggered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Ambassador, just a short time. The question was especially when the PES system would be terminated. In general, it is planned that when the community spread is stopped, which is when there is roughly less than 5% of the infectious population in that area, there is no talk of an epidemic. It can be estimated as a percentage of the positives of the tests. At the moment, if we count all the tests we have, and the ones we report, and the ones we're not allowed to report according to the valid methodology, that means the antigen tests, we're about 14 percent. That means so far the community's spread is ongoing, but it used to be around 35 percent, so the decline is noticeable. At the time, the plan is to put the system away. And so, as we were asked by the Chamber of Deputies last time, there is also a table prepared for the PES system, which does not count on emergency conditions at stage one, it leads to different results, it has a different power of these measures, but the Chamber of Deputies will be familiar with it. And as for the fact that you said that people are going to be vaccinated healthy, that's the principle of vaccination, please. Healthy people always have to be vaccinated just so they don't get sick. And they must be inoculated enough to protect those who, for example, cannot be vaccinated. That's the principle of solidarity in vaccination. The lines you said. Yes, as soon as two months of business is closed, it can be assumed that at least the first days will form queues after they are opened. I wouldn't see it too black here either, because at least based on the information we've been looking at, it's not true that it's a majority phenomenon. But it certainly could have happened in some shops, just as it did in front of hairdressers. I know about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u203	Mr Bojko is interested in an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u204	I'd like to ask why we don't actually test those old ladies and girls in those senior homes by some other method than this, just putting them deep into their noses. I've got a lot of people on the phone saying it hurts them. Some say, "And I'll take it." I just think we're somewhere where we could do it with a throat swab or a saliva swab and not bother them twice a week with this method. And one more thing. These people don't have social contact. They're dying of sadness. This October, 480 people reportedly died with covid, but nearly 900 died from other causes, more than 900 in October last year. And the other causes are mainly simply impossible to meet their loved ones, to be sad, not to have surgery, not to have an examination and to die that they are not being operated on. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u205	Thank you. The Minister will answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u206	Just for a very short time. Believe me, Mr. Ambassador, I, as a doctor, would be thrilled if we could do the tests differently. I believe it will be soon. They're the first tests to show some kind of results, but they're not at a level so we can compare them with the other ones. When something feels good, it doesn't mean it works. Once well-functioning tests are available from saliva, we will definitely use them. We don't have one yet. Otherwise, I'm just as sorry as you are. And the numbers of those who died. So, yes, in October, about 1,200 people died over the previous year's death, and it wasn't due to the covid. And, yes, these people probably died because they were delayed due to an epidemic. We know that. I presented it at our data conference. It's publicly available on our servers. I don't think the majority of these people died of grief, but they were the other variants, which doesn't diminish the deaths. That is why all these measures are aimed at releasing the health system so that it can provide the services fully again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u207	Thank you. At this moment, Mr Václav Klaus will speak with an interview with Minister Karel Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u208	Dear Minister, I'm glad you're here once when I interpel you. I'm not going to interpel you, I'm going to ask you for a promise. We both know that the situation with compensation for different types of economy in logic doesn't work and it can't work. My interpellation is called "aid for laundry and dry cleaners" because it is one of the sectors that is a flagrant case. These are, of course, establishments that are open, or de facto not limited, but the government has shut down all of their main suppliers, which are restaurants, hotels, saunas, beauty salons, hairdressers and similar things that are there as if in larger they wash things, etc., etc. So it is clear that the only solution we can bring them is not to shut down the economy. You're an intelligent person, so I'm sure you suspect that the soft measures have almost zero effect. Some brutal lockdown has an impact on the outbreak in the population, but these minor modifications, like kids going to school from C and not from G, and then meeting at practice this afternoon and all that, they're almost zero. We don't have to go far for scientific evidence. At the end of August, this wave of epidemic began to rise, the government began to take some restrictive measures, more and more stringent, and those measures had a zero impact on how the epidemic then jumped, launched brutally after the regional elections. Right now the epidemic is leaving, first it left in Prague, and it's certainly not because the Pražák people followed the measures most and so on. So I want you to promise not to close the economy next time. You're the Minister of Industry and Trade, that you're gonna threaten demise and you're not gonna crouch there and then--
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u209	Time! [[Yes.]] Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u210	Thank you for asking. Of course I don't like it, the joy of closing the economy here, and of course I'm the opponent in that government, and if you've only watched it in the last few days, I'm almost sure that if I hadn't made the argument that I wasn't, then the release regime was a little different. And on the other hand, I can't see what's going on in health care. I have to look at this with reason, and I have to look at it a little bit balanced. I'm not an epidemiologist. I don't know how to judge. What you say, you say it very highly, maybe you're right, maybe you don't. And it is true that many other countries are shutting down the economy. And they don't lock her up because there are people sitting there who are incompetent, who would just decide to shut it down, and now they're gonna punish somebody, and they're gonna have peace of mind. Of course, I saw those curves go up, just like you had to see them, and everyone else saw them. And then, of course, everyone saw, the moment the social contacts got knocked out - and it wasn't just business, it wasn't just business, it was culture, it was sport, of course, economy, etc. And again, we don't like doing this very much, it's just a drastic measure, of course. But then the fact is, always with some distance, 14 days in order, then the curve goes down. And what is there to fight for here? There is a struggle to make sure that our hospitals are able to cope with the strain so that we do not end up as Italy did in the spring, as unfortunately Poland did now in the autumn, when the care is not enough to offer, it is not enough to realize, and it is not just about whether there is a patient with a covid, but there may be any other patient. And if this fails, it's just a mess. It's bad. We didn't fail. And this is most likely why - I say this as a neepidemiologist, but as one who participated in negotiations at almost daily level with the largest capacities not only in epidemiology, pandemics, but also in health care not only in the Czech Republic but also abroad, who did not recommend it, but clearly set the parameters for pulling the handbrake, and unfortunately the economy must be eliminated. And on the other hand, we didn't pull it in the industry, which I think was worth it, and that made the scars hard, cruel, but it was possible to survive. If anyone has any brilliant idea of how to avoid it without taking the precautions, then let them say so. But while you're looking at what's happening in the United States, what's being done in Germany, what's being done in Austria, what's being done in Asian countries, they haven't invented anything but a reduction in mobility. We can talk about whether this reduction in mobility is better done in sport, in culture, in the economy, nobody is happy about it, of course. So what can I say? Fighting to keep the shops open, yes, but not at the cost of failing to manage their care here and having tens of thousands of dead here, which is finally in some countries. So, of course, it's a difficult decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u211	Thank you. The Member has an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u212	Well, you guys are so smooth, you don't know where the truth is, it can be, not to be. Well, let's face it, the fact that we've handled this wave of epidemic is not the credit of your measures that you took on September 3rd as a government, yeah, with all due respect, it's my government, I'm a Czech citizen, I respected it, I wear drapes. The Polák had far fewer infections than we had on the population and the situation was collapsing. Overcoming this is because of the robustness and quality of our health care. When you close the schools, there's no nurses and doctors in the hospitals, and the bar's going down. What you're defending, you don't have any data for it. I asked you politely if next time you will hard defend it to schools, small shops etc. you stay open, you threaten demise, and you promise me here that you will fight hard for it, just like now the opening of ski resorts where people are in balaclavas, in helmets, the whole family. And that they're gonna go there for wine tonight, so if they go to Navigator in Prague on that boat, those young people are gonna yacht there, so it's okay, and that the family is coming to the mountains and you're gonna destroy - I'm from Pec pod Sněžkou - the whole sector, is it okay? That's what I asked you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u213	Time. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u214	I will undoubtedly fight, but I will always try to accept and respect the arguments of those who, in this case, have clear arguments, have clear facts, have a clear comparison. Let's fight and not close. I think we all agree on that, we'd just be against each other. But on the other hand, we must not take the steps we are taking, simply put ourselves in a situation where we put people's health at risk, endanger medical care here. You're right, the hospitals, of course, fought it out. But be careful, if there's a situation where it's so crowded, the hospitals, then there'll be nothing left to fight for, because they'll just be in the halls somewhere in front of the hospital, like in some countries. And that's what we're trying to prevent. And I don't think it's a controversy about whether the economy is a good thing or a bad thing to close. It is, of course, wrong for the economy to close, there is no doubt about it. The question is, what would happen if it didn't close? If it wasn't worse. And that is what I dare say, Mr. Ambassador, and I say it openly, we don't know any of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-006-493.u215	Thank you. We will not ask the last question again because the last question can be submitted at the latest at 17.55. So I'm saying that for today, we've exhausted and ended the oral questioning. I wish you all a good evening and we'll continue tomorrow at 9:00 in the morning.
