ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 133/2020 Coll., on certain social security adjustments in connection with emergency measures during the epidemic in 2020 /German press 828/ - shortened negotiations According to Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. 5 We should assess whether the conditions for discussing this proposal are precisely in the shortened negotiations. I am opening up a debate on this. I don't have anyone enrolled in the debate to see if there's a reason for the shortcoming. Nobody's checking in, I'm done with the debate. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 133/2020 Coll., on certain social security adjustments in connection with emergency measures in the 2020 epidemic, House press 828, in a short hearing." Initiating vote number 32 and asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 32, 188, for 157, against no one. The motion has been approved. Therefore, we are negotiating pursuant to § 99 para. 7. [[right 5]] [[16.10 hours]] I will now ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová to state, under the authority of the Government, a government bill amending Act No. 133/2020 Coll., on certain social security adjustments in connection with emergency measures during the epidemic in 2020. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, may I present this House press, the main reason for which the ongoing emergency measures in the epidemic of the prohibition of teaching on all types of schools and the related need to address the financial...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u3	I understand. Madam Members, please, if you are discussing another subject, in principle in the front room, so that the Minister can make a proposal in peace. Just a moment longer, my colleagues will leave the O.R. and transfer their discussions outside. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Let me just remind you that we responded to this situation in March, when the Parliament of the Czech Republic adopted Act No. 133/2020 Coll., which allows, above all, to extend the period of support of the infirmary provided from sickness insurance to the full duration of emergency measures. Furthermore, to provide care in the care of a child due to the closure of schools up to 13 years of age and the closure of facilities intended for the care of a person dependent on the care of another person at least at the first stage of dependence in which care is given to those persons due to their medical condition. Thirdly, we have made it possible to pay the sickbay even if the pre-school facilities were closed directly in connection with emergency measures decided by the founders. On the basis of an evaluation of the situation of families, as promised by the government more than four weeks ago, and in view of the fact that the comprehensive emergency measure already lasts for more than one month and can be expected to last in the following months, it is therefore proposed to increase the treatment from 60 to 80 per cent of the daily assessment base during the period from 1 April 2020. At the same time, however, it should be said that 30 June of this year is set as the final date for the period of support for child care in the case of school closure, taking into account the beginning of school holidays. I also consider it very important that the increased infirmary will not only apply to the child care centre at the conclusion of schools, but also to the infirmary provided for the care of a child or another member of the household due to sickness or accident under the sickness insurance law. The proposed measures will have an impact on the state budget in 2020. We expect the impact on the state budget of CZK 3.5 billion to be on 30 calendar days, i.e. by 0.9 billion more than the current law. At the same time, we expect about 5,000 cases a month when the infirmary is used for reasons other than school closure. There are estimated costs of CZK 6 million in 30 calendar days. At the same time, let me point out - because, in relation to the infirmary, the issue of financial security of persons active under employment agreements and labour agreements is also very often mentioned. On this point, I would like to point out that this group is in no way forgotten, and, as I am aware, and in this regard, an amendment by Mr Sklenák has already been made, which provides for the financial provision of these so-called social contributions brokers, in times of emergency measures in the epidemic, as is the case with the standard infirmary. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has been involved in preparing this proposal and we therefore support this amendment. Finally, I would like to say that the effectiveness of the bill is determined on account of the urgency and the need for this legislation to be adopted on the day of its publication. Today, the draft law was discussed by the Committee on Social Policy, which recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to give its consent to the draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u5	I thank the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová and I note that the Committee on Social Policy, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the decision of the President, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 828/1. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, President Jana Pastuchová, to inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and to justify any amendments. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, my colleague, the Social Policy Committee discussed this bill this morning. Madam Secretary has told us all about what this is about. It's an increase from 60 to 80 percent back to 1 April. No amendments have been adopted to the Committee on Social Policy, and I would like to have you read the resolution of our committee. Resolution of the Social Policy Committee of the 51st meeting of 21 April 2020 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 133/2020 Coll. on certain social security adjustments in connection with emergency measures in the outbreak in 2020, House press 828: "After the opening words of Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Petr Hůrka, Jana Pastuchová's report and after the debate of the Social Policy Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to terminate its negotiations on this bill by 19 a.m. on 21 April 2020 at the latest; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government Bill amending Act No. 133/2020 Coll., on certain social security adjustments in connection with emergency measures in the 2020 epidemic, House Press 828; V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present the Committee's opinion to the Assembly of Deputies; In cooperation with the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, it has made appropriate legislative technical adaptations." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u7	I thank the rapporteur for her report and we will now decide whether we will conduct a general debate. That's what we're gonna decide in vote number thirty-three. First, I'm gonna go on and wait for my colleagues and colleagues to come back from the ballot box. So we will now decide to hold a general debate at second reading in a shortened negotiation. Initiating vote number 33 and asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 33, from 188, for 118, against no one. The motion was accepted. Now, before the opening of the general debate with the procedural proposal, my colleague Kubíček is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Once again, I will propose a shortening of the debate in the general and detailed debate to five minutes for one Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u9	I did it before the opening... I apologize because the club chairman is present, so Vice-President of the club - but I am opening up a debate. I note that there has been a proposal to limit the debate to five minutes for one speech in the general debate. Does anyone want to say it again? He doesn't. We're going to decide the number 34 vote that I started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 34, out of 188 votes 84 against 27. The motion was not accepted. I am opening the debate and the first is signed with Mrs Pekarová Adamová's priority right. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing a little déjà vu. We have here a bill that we discussed almost a month ago on March 24th, and this time we have here with a proposal directly from the government, which we could have already approved here. By the end of March, we had three opportunities to increase the infirmary to 80 per cent of the wage assessment base. Even then, three times in your vote, you did not support this increase. How many families have been stressed since then if they live with how much they get in sickbay? How many families have had to reach for, like, a disadvantageous fast loan, start getting into debt? In particular, the singles, the singles, those who are usually deep in their pockets, found themselves in this difficult situation, precisely because you then politicized instead of supporting the sensible proposals of the opposition. Even then, the Minister announced that he would evaluate how it would affect families and that she would probably come forward alone with a proposal of 80 percent in the future. Here we go! I'm glad it's here, we'll support it, of course, because it's a proposal that we've been pushing from the start. But I can't forgive myself for not reminding myself that this could have been the case a long time ago. That the time we're going to spend here, we didn't have to do it at all, and we didn't have to throw our families into an even worse situation and great uncertainty. I would like to ask, above all, whether the government will also lean towards improving the infirmary for self-employed people based on the pressure that we have been doing in opposition for many weeks. If they also do not belong to an increase that would better and more adequately assess how long they must depend on this support. That this is an exceptionally long time, that is indisputable. I hope firmly that the proposals that we are making or the various opposition parties are making regarding the so-called. We will, at least, be converted into an amendment adopted by coalition MPs, by the negotiators, by the people who work on the DPP or the DPČ. This is the debt we have to these families. We have it against them, who are often the worst at the moment. Those who also usually have very low incomes and now are completely incomeless, and we let them fall completely for nothing. Totally useless, because what we're dealing with here today, we've been dealing with here almost a month ago, and it could have worked long ago, and it could have been a long time ago. So now we're cynically waiting for more and more families to get into trouble to come to us triumphantly, the government has come up with how generous she is, how she helps. I would also like to appeal to the Minister not to waste so much on the application for medical attention. Because the form, one of the several that parents have to document, is also about the closure of a school or children's facility. I understand that kindergarten schools were not completely closed by government regulations, but about primary schools - there can't be a single open primary school here, so I don't see why the parents of children who are elementary school at that age, some of them, because it's up to 13 years old, maybe it's a multi-year high school, so why should they do paperwork in these cases. We are really in a situation where the capacity of officials in all institutions, including the Czech Social Security Administration, is completely busy. We know how long it takes to get support for businessmen. How many of the applications are denied. How many loans have not been granted and how slowly the handling of these individual items lasts. And even in the case of the infirmary, instead of trying to make it easier, instead of requiring what is not necessary and what is evident from the government's regulation, we simply continue to insist. The Czech Social Security Administration can check this out for all school children, not preschool children, but school children, we don't have to ask them to do it. We will not even burden schools that now have a lot to worry about and solve their teachings, prepare to resume attendance for at least part of the children, and we still insist on such unnecessary paper here. So please, nicely, this would be great if we started following some sort of common sense, which is often called here. I think this is one of those sample cases. I'd like to remember not only the contractors, but also the self-defense. I'm just pointing out here again that even these families, even the self-employed, can be singles. There's a whole bunch of them who get help from the state so slowly, if they get it at all. And with the infirmary, it should also apply to them that it will be increased. Of course, we will support this proposal, but, as I say, it could have been a long time ago, only if, in this case, it didn't matter the color of the shirt of the party that suggested it. That would be so much better for people. But some here are more about solving the color of T-shirts than measures for people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u11	Thank you and we are now continuing to speak with the priority right of President Jurečka. Mr. Jan Bauer will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, Madam Secretary, members of the government, colleagues, I confess that when I learned last week that the Minister and the Government were preparing this draft parametric adjustment of the infirmary, I was very pleased, on the one hand, because it is really necessary for parents who fell significantly in terms of household income to help, and this increase to 80 per cent is certainly in order. But on the other hand, I was very embarrassed when I asked myself why it couldn't have been more than three weeks ago, when we were making amendments here under KDU-ČSL, which increased the infirmary to 80 or 100 percent, so that we could secure the income of Czech households, because these are very important. These are important because we need to realise that 60% of our economy is driven by household consumption. And at the moment we cut household incomes, we logically also reduce their consumption within the economy and spin the wheels of the crisis faster than the crisis itself brings in these days. [[16.30 hours]] I confess that I did not understand, therefore, when we were on the Social Committee, why the Minister rejected this proposal, then at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, she said that we could return to it, so I did not understand why, in a situation where we knew that the story of the quarantine, the story of the infirmary was not a matter of one, two or three weeks, but it would be a longer-term matter of why we did not give these parents, the single moms, to households at least 80 percent. I don't understand one thing. Why, when this proposal comes now, why is it backwards only from 1 April this year, when the measures and the fact that parents had to stay at home, this government decided, on the one hand, logically in the fight against the spread of coronavirus to keep the children at home so that these parents would be at home with them in order to get the infirmary. But I don't understand why we won't give it back to the infirmary since March 11th, when these measures were imposed on them by the government. That is why I propose to correct this issue with an amendment, which I will then sign up to in a detailed debate, so that from the start of these parents' time at home, their incomes will fall - the single moms are writing me that their incomes have fallen significantly - so that we can fix this from the beginning of this situation. I also want us to make amends on matters relating to the future perspective. Many parents tell me that they are very worried, they have children with reduced immunity at home and so on, and they say that even when school opens up, so that they can possibly still keep their children at home in home education, and they would like to be able to draw on the infirmary further. In these situations, we also want to go to KDU-ČSL for the requirements of these parents - and they are quite logical, justified, I as a father of five children understand that they have this problem so that we can... I just heard from the next table that it's bullshit. [[intelligence]] I admit it, I don't see it as bullshit. I think that when parents write these things, they write them quite rightly. So I would like to be able to meet these cases, too, so that when a parent makes this statement of honor, he can keep the child at home, he is at home with him, he does not go to work, so that the infirmary can also be used here. And then I would also like to adjust one more thing so that we can make it possible that if people are quarantined, so that the first 14 days are not paid by the employer, but that the State should pay for it, so that we can also do this way of helping companies and employees. So these are some areas that I would like to correct parametrically with this proposal. Of course, it is very uncomfortable in this situation, but the fact that the work of officials who are very overloaded today is actually being added to the two steps, and they will just have to make an extra payment that might not have been here again, and those funds could have already been received at the original amount, as we suggested here for KDU-ČSL. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u13	I thank Mr Jurečka for his speech. With priority rights, Mrs. Labor and Social Affairs Minister Jana Maláčová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u14	Thank you. Just a brief remark. Mr. Chairman heard some bullshit. My wife and I used to say "it's in there." This means that those parents who do not comply with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports regulations and whose children do not enter the school can continue to receive the infirmary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u15	Well, with priority rights, Mr. Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u16	Thank you. So if I didn't hear it and I should have heard "it's there" instead of "it's there," I thank you for that. And I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u17	Mr Jan Bauer is now in the proper debate. Mrs Šafránková will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Democratic Party MP will support the proposal to increase the infirmary to 80 per cent of the daily assessment base. We will support this proposal even though it is late. I certainly do not need to remind you that our parliamentary club was also the one of three who proposed this infirmary at 80 per cent of the assessment base less than a month ago. And among other things, we suggested we change another parameter, that's the current 13 years to 15 years. These proposals have not been adopted. You know, I understand that, and I don't mind so much that the government writes from the opposition on many bills. Unfortunately, I regret that some proposals take so long. I have to tell myself or remind myself of a personal memory. As mayor of the time, I experienced a crisis caused by the flood in 2002, and I experienced a crisis caused by the fall of the Lehman Brothers in 2008. And besides the many experiences in life, I remember a very sensible and wise saying that has already fallen here today. Whoever gives fast, twice gives. Respectfully, who helps quickly, twice helps. And that's why we wanted to help quickly before the month we conceived the parameters of the change in the infirmary, which is why we proposed 80 percent, because - let's face it - the goal of what we're doing here is certainly not that we're overreacting by the percentage of the infirmary. The aim is for the Czech Republic to return to normal conditions after we cope with the coronavirus crisis. The goal is for parents to start going to work. And the goal is for the kids to start going to school. For this reason - and perhaps this is my only question that I would like to hear here - I would like to ask if there is - and I do not believe it - some political calculus, because at this point you come up with an increase in the infirmary at 80 percent, and at the same time you are probably sending some of the Czech children to school sometime in mid-May. So logically, we're adding, or you're adding, and you're promising people more money, on the other hand, the circle of people who touch the money is getting smaller for the reasons I said some kids are going to go to school. For this reason too, I have had a really large number of questions from my parents lately, if there is no financial political calculation behind this. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u19	I thank Mr Jan Bauer. Now, Mrs Šafránková. Roman Sklenák will be ready. Sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mr President, do you wish to exercise your right of priority? Yes. So, Mrs. Šafránková, it's my fault. Chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u20	Thank you for the floor. When we were talking about who's wearing a party shirt, maybe the secretary took a blue one as an expression of penance today. 'Cause I took the tape and compared it to today's words to the secretary, who actually said, it takes longer than we expected, so me and the government responded and we come up with a bill proposal. What did the Secretary of State tell us on March 24th after we voted on the bill? That could take weeks and months. That's what she told us on March 24th, when we criticized the secretary's three times saying "I don't agree" from this table. First of all, President Jurečka's proposal was 80 percent. Disagree. Then Mr Bauer's proposal 80 per cent. Disagree. Then the third proposal was made by President Markéta Adamová Pekarová. Disagree. March 24th. Today, a government in a legislative emergency is straining us with what could have been solved long ago. But that's what my previous speakers said. I have specific questions for the Minister. It's April 21st. Madam Secretary, how many citizens have requested medical attention for the month of March? How many of these applications are done? How much money did it send? And why does the application have six pages for one employee when the employer does it? Six pages that must be scanned and sent through data boxes, for example. Six pages! What were you doing on March 24th? Why were you against it when you said yourself that it could take weeks and months to tell us today "it's taking longer than we expected"? You, a member of the government who was already saying, "We're going to ask for an extension of the emergency"? By that time, you publicly told government members how the schools would probably be closed for a long time. Only political pride led you to say no! There is no super-minister of everything possible - industry, trade, transport, vice-premier for science, research, innovation, top vowels, which, I don't know why, has decided that the infirmary for the CFI will be a government regulation. So be it. [[16.40 hours]] Yesterday I read in the press, and I wanted to ask the Minister, but he's not here, he's probably dividing the subsidies, that he came in from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs 55,000 requests for March, and that on yesterday's day it was decided in 5,000 cases, that's 10 percent. We're out of April. And if the numbers are true, I don't know, the MIT knows that, then 90 percent of the businessmen aren't in medical care yet for March. And they should have sent a request for April by next week. Those 424 kroner a day - I say it well, I think so - I wonder what salary that exactly corresponds to when we translate it, whether it's 60 or 80 percent, so we have an idea of how much the government appreciated the income of a businessman. [[to Minister Maláčová]] It's a low amount, and it's not paying off yet. It's like the COVID thing. Remember? On 16 March COVID announced a press conference of the Minister of Industry and Trade, which is a great and successful program, that it is exhausted. Even I thought, great, that's good, interest-free loans for our businessmen, in three days the state did it and split it up. See, on yesterday's day after one month out of 3,200 requests examined 1,600, 1,600 unexplored and of which 1,400 refused. So one thing is the program, the announcement of the program, and the other thing, and it's been a long time for the government to say how the programs actually work. Why, for example, do dozens and dozens of employers turn to us for getting it back to them all the time? So either we accept the hypothesis that a great government, a great secretary, and a great office came up with it, and they're the stupid ones who are asking, or we accept the hypothesis that the system is too complex, bureaucratic, and many just can't handle it. I'm leaning towards hypothesis B, not hypothesis A. I don't know who invented that in Antivirus you have to prove, among other things, a contract to set up a bank account. It could only be done by someone who's never done anything and never worked. As long as those companies send social security from those accounts every month! It's not the state that's checking, it's working. You pay two days later, there's a penalty. Two days-- high. [[Secretary Maláčová speaks from the news desk off the microphone.]] Isn't that right? Maybe not now, the six weeks, but otherwise it's just true. Madam Secretary says you can pay social services late and no one will penalize you. Good news. I don't think that's true, but if the secretary says so, I guess that's true. So all programs or not all, but most of these programs are too bureaucratic. And in my opinion, it's based on the attitude that they're all dirty suspects, they all need to be checked out, documented. Imagine you can't draw on the Antivirus program because you owe it to the state. But it's difficult not to owe the state if you're locked up and you don't have the money and you don't. [[Secretary Maláčová objects from the rapporteur's desk that this is not true.]] Well, it's true, Madam Secretary, it's true. I'll forward the e-mails to you. If you're gonna deal with them yourself or give them to someone else, it doesn't matter. Remember, you yourself admitted that in the first days 70 percent of the applications were returned for incorrect filling. What's wrong? On the side of those who invented it, or the ones who serve it? I think the answer is clear: on the side of those who invented it. So on the one hand, we have press releases where ministers praise each other for how everything works, and then you find that in many programs, money doesn't actually reach these people after a month. That's a big problem. And the problem with this press is - we will, of course, support it, why wouldn't the opposition support it if it was her three weeks old original proposal? - we've done it twice. Why are you rushing us into a legislative emergency again? Because you didn't want the opposition to be true. That's all. You said yourself it would take weeks and months. How much did you save in those 19 days when it was 60 percent? I wonder, because I see no other reason than that you wanted to save 19 days of that 20 percent. Then you too, Madam Secretary, had to admit that the opposition's arguments were strong. And it was the opposition as a whole who voted here. You can take a look at the junk. Only members of YES, the Czech Social Democratic Party, and, to be sure, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia voted against 80 per cent to vote in favour today. I'm just waiting for a press conference where the Secretary of State will compliment herself on how she pushed this place through. We would have completely closed the circle: against the proposal, against the proposal, against the proposal - now it's my proposal: for the proposal, I'm great, I pushed it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u21	Now with the priority right of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, then the duly registered colleague Šafránková. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u22	I thank President Stanjur for quoting me here, but I think we should be serious, and when someone is quoting himself, he finds himself whole and not one small sentence out of context. My introductory word, and I will not quote the whole introductory word, there it is beautifully described, you can all look it up: "The last or the last thing I would like to mention, there are suggestions that the infirmary should be paid at 80 percent of the previous income. That's my original proposal that I went into government negotiations with. However, I must say that at this point, because we do not know how long the fight against coronavirus will last, we have decided to prioritize job saving. The Antivirus programme, which is, in simple terms, the cursarbeit regime, will be a very costly matter. And if we're going to decide how to get our economy on its feet, at this point, we're prioritizing the saving of jobs. However, I have already promised this on the Social Committee today, if this state of emergency should be long-term, then social democracy will promote an increase in the infirmary, taking into account the reduced assessment base." I have said this, Mr President, so please do not take matters out of context. It's a low-down. I wanted 80 percent already on March 19th, we agreed within the framework of the government compromise that we would increase up to 13 years during the entire emergency, and after a month, we would return to 80 percent after a month. And that's what we did. We went back to that after a month, and now we're suggesting it. And families aren't missing anything, that's what needs to be said, because the infirmary pays off for April in May. That means if we decide today, next week, the Senate, there's still two weeks to pay off. Families aren't gonna lose anything. And to ask President Jurečka why it's not from the beginning. Well, that's a simple thought. Because in March, families still had wages and infirmary. There was a combination. That revenue blackout isn't that high. But in April, they only have the infirmary, which is why the calculations. And one more thing. We normally, when we don't make decisions based on data, the opposition screams: you make decisions without data! When we decide on data, you scream: it should have been a long time ago! So what's one to choose from? Probably never anything. We promised that if schools were closed for more than a month, we would design a higher infirmary. We did! And no one's gonna get hit because the infirmary's due in April in May. And as for the sums... I don't have a Face ID, I'm sorry... how much we paid in Sick Bay. To the 20th. 4. because I send monitoring to the Czech Social Security Administration 114 569 applications for sick leave for school closure on a daily basis. Processed, that means paid, is 77 321 doses of the infirmary. This means that 68 per cent is paid for March. As far as time limits are concerned, 74.3% was processed within 10 days, because in the case of the infirmary, you probably know how the mechanism works, the employer is proceeding with the district social security administration and it is still paying off. The legal deadline is 30 days. We, of course, even if we have 10 percent of employees at the Czech Social Security Administration either in quarantine or in sick care, or in care, even if we have 10 percent of employees outside, we pay 74.3 % of caregivers within 10 days. So much for your questions. And once again, it's not a calculation. We knew when we promised this place in March, because the infirmary was paid in April for March, May for April, so if we made that decision in April, our parents wouldn't lose any money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u23	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr Stanjura, then Mr Jurečka. Colleague Šafránková's on hold. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u24	So 74 percent of caregivers are paid within 10 days. I wish that were true. You said it was 114 grand. of which 77 thousand were ordered. applications, i.e. 67 per cent has been evaluated. So it couldn't be 74, it couldn't be 74 percent of the 67, so I'm going to be able to figure out what that is right now, so it's going to be a total of half of the applications. [[Secretary Maláčová from the newsroom table off the microphone.]] Madam Secretary will explain. 77 thousand. Of 114 thousand. is 67 per cent, yet paid 74 per cent within 10 days. That's just not true. Of course, those families are gonna lose their infirmary in March. We're not talking about April. I speak for March. And you're in the same speech - if I were to quote everything you said, we'd repeat the meeting, but if you insist, I'd be happy to read your opening and final words, if that's good for you, that's no problem. You said the situation would take weeks, if not long months. By that time, you closed those schools for a month by government decision - 11 March until 11 April. And you're on March 24th, you're seriously telling us today, did she think it would open on April 12th? Am I to find a quote from the Deputy Prime Minister, your party leader, Jan Hamáček, who already said it was necessary to extend the emergency for at least a month? So what are you guys playing at? Who other than the government should have known how long those schools would be closed, that they'd be closed for at least over a month. The government knew that when we were here on March 24th, that's perfectly logical. And I'm not surprised. I'm just wondering... That's why I asked what the savings were. That's what I'm asking you. How much did the state save if the 80 percent, like the opposition wanted from 12 March to 31 March, in those 19 days, those families would be entitled to 80 instead of 60 percent. That's the savings. Madam Secretary will say very calmly today: This is my original proposal! I've been suggesting this on March 19th... It's okay. That's right. But then he says, "Not in the interest of the families, not because it helps the families, but because we've made a coalition compromise... In other words, if I am to interpret this correctly - social democracy was in favour and the YES movement was against... I don't know if that's true, and I don't really care, because you, Madam Secretary, are responsible for this resort. What you suggested at the press conference doesn't matter. You said "no" three times on the microphone. That's important. Not what you say five days in advance, what you imagine. When it came to breaking bread, we first voted on President Jurečka's proposal, so you said no. I guess you've changed your mind in five days. On the 19th you were in favour, on the twenty-fourth you recommended, and the government MPs listened to you, too, and you were against it. So those families lost about 19 days of 80 percent. That's right. If you suggested today that this applies backwards from March 12th, you'd be right, the families won't miss anything, they'll get it a little later, but they'll get it. That's how they lost it. You can't deny that in March from 12 to 31 March, in addition, you've been running only 67 percent of the applications so far, you've given them 60 percent instead of 80 percent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u25	Now, Mr Marian Jurečka, then President Fiala, then Minister Maláčová... I've already reported it, or I would have reported to my colleague Fiala in advance, because he's going to take my turn in the management of the meeting. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to allow myself to react because the Secretary of State has denied this place several times. On the one hand, she told us how she was at 80 percent from the start, how the Minister and the Government both went along with it, how she supported this. Then she explained that when it came to breaking bread in the House about four weeks ago, she told us that she didn't really know how long it was going to be, so she decided to say that 60 percent was enough. So these are things that I don't fully understand, as I listened, as the Minister said. Then it was said here that your parents weren't gonna lose anything. Why don't you go explain to the people, and I can give you these stories when people are telling me how much the infirmary is working out today. Mommy with three children, single-parent, self-employed, has an infirmary of 8,400 calculated. She hasn't gotten it yet. I'd like us to really stand up here - or you as a government coalition on why you don't want to give those parents 80 percent for March. Argument that the first 11 days could go to work, then from that 11. 3. Didn't they have that kind of household expenses anymore? On the contrary, I know the stories that when you have two or three children at home, the expense of having them at home will grow more or less. So explain to those parents - not to me, you can throw me overboard, as it happens many times - but explain to people who are watching it, why the government coalition has forced parents to be home, who have lost part of their income, you don't want back from 11. 3. on the basis of our proposals, admit 80 per cent of the infirmary. I really don't understand. And then I'm going to give you the particular incentive that President Stanjura mentioned here today about the little s.r.o. David tesař writes: Government closed operation in Prague. We're not entitled to anything. We don't get 80 percent per employee. So first you pay, then you get 80 percent back. If you don't even have to pay the state contributions because you pay all the fixed costs further without a single crown of income, you are the debtor of the state excluded from all programs. Regardless of the fact that loans are neither compensation nor assistance, but only a delay and dilution of mass bankruptcy... These little s. r. o.s are dependent on how many budgets of whole families. It would just be fair if he said: we take debtlessness for example to the last February. But by the time those firms got into these troubles in March, they don't have cash income, so they just can't pay all the state's obligations, they won't report debtlessness and you're spinning rounds of their problems that they just can't stop. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u27	Thank you. And now with priority rights Vice-President of the House, Mr Petr Fiala, then Minister Maláčová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the government, I would understand if the government had come here today, she would have said: 'Well, we made a mistake on 24 March, we did not think about it, we did not evaluate it correctly, you were right then, we are sorry, let us quickly enforce the 80 percent, as you suggested at the time, and let us do something together...' I can understand that. We would support you, we would return to what we could have done here on 24 March, what our colleague Jan Bauer here suggested, which supported the entire opposition, and it could have been resolved. You guys come in here today and you look like saviors. So I'm just politically trying to get people to understand, reminding them what the meeting looked like on March 24th. We've been listening to the Prime Minister's words, who sits behind me here, who said - certainly would confirm it: we're in the same boat, let's deal with this... And on the same ship, we were so that two of the government's two amendments went through the amendments by the government Members and 38 of the opposition's amendments, including 80 percent, one single proposal that did not concern the economy at all. So we were in the same boat. We weren't in the same boat. And today you're going back to what we've been saying here, what we've been suggesting, what we've been convinced it's necessary to make people deal with the economic crisis. So please stop defending yourself, admit that you were wrong, we will support it, we will help people and move on!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u29	Thank you. Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, then President of the Pirate Party. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u30	I guess my blue dress isn't a coincidence tonight. I think we can debate here for a long time, but a higher infirmary was the idea of social democracy. As a government, we propose it, we promote it as a government. You can laugh and mock again. Let's get those numbers for the infirmary. I'm quoting this to you once again, and then we're going to say what a percentage of the base is, because I think that's something to say. One more time: 114 569 applications for medical care were received on March 20th of April 2020 due to school closure. The treatment is 77 321 doses of the infirmary, which is 67.5 percent. As regards time limits, 74,3% of this 77 321 benefits are processed within 10 days. And logic is simple. Not all employers will send applications for sickbay on April 1. That means it's not the same. A moment ago, when I was describing the principle of how it works, you nodded, Mr President, that you knew how it works, so now we've explained it. One more time. We are doing our best to make sure that the infirmary is paid as quickly as possible, because we are very well aware that parents depend on it. [[17,00 hours]] And one more thing. They're confusing apples with pears. We were here a week ago or two weeks ago approving the Employment Act, and the cornerstone of the amendment was that the labor authorities would stop demanding debt from companies. It is specially for emergency measures and it was for companies that owe to the state to sign up for the Antivirus program. The Prime Minister was just training me for asking for this. We don't require it. It's nonsense. We've got it approved in the law, and apples and pears are mixed up in here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u31	Yes. President Bartoš with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u32	I would just like to thank you first of all for the fact that Minister Maláčová confirmed the calculation of the President of the ODS Stanjury Club. I often see it when the government performs on its endless - I suffered a lot yesterday - conferences where it fences numbers and percentages there. So, really, out of the total number of applications submitted, about 50 percent of them were resolved within 10 days. That's the first thing. And it seems to me, I know there was a rather unpleasant report - thank you for it - in 168 hours, on the Czech Television programme, where there was talk about who the government forgot. And there were those sad stories of those people who were working on the DPP, DPČ, those people who weren't able to do it through the cursarbeit, s. r. o. that - there in the café those people were selling the coffee, two husbands, and they didn't get a dime from the government. We are with these things, the DPP, the infirmary for people who are at home, for example, for mothers, and it can also be a father who has some small-time job, for people who work at the department of consultants, they don't have a job now, and only because they taught at the DPP somewhere in college, they didn't get anything either. So what happens today? You guys have been boycotting it for a month, making fools of us and people stupid -- sorry I'm using that word. The Czech television broadcasts a story where it finally decloaks, a report where the government doesn't perform, so it's going to say how it really is, and today, with great glory, the members of the government coalition pushes the committee's proposal, and since then it's all been resolved, we knew it, we wanted it. And you guys are gonna beat each other in the boobs about how it worked out today. A thing that could have been solved a month ago. Prime Minister Babiš - he's here - he invited opposition MPs to the meeting, I sat there in the ANO club's meeting room, we were there three feet and a half apart, and there was a government connection, and there were party chairmen sitting there, and they said, well, we have these five things for you, here we have to remember, it's 150,000 people. You ignored it. Last time we could have already approved the CFI with the combined part, also the DPP, DPČ. This is where Chvojka, the chairman of the club ČSSD shot up the critique, and then she got out of the CSSD and cut it up for those who have it as a part-time job, they don't have it as a main income, and today we're here to applaud! So I'm glad and I'd like to thank Czech TV for giving the first story at 168 o'clock on the show, because that's what reality is. And I would really expect a little humility from the fact that something was quite clear at the beginning before such beating and fencing here with numbers, because this was known, and the data, the numbers, Madam Secretary, you have at that office. When Secretary Schillerová was here with the fact that he couldn't see whether these people had contracts or not, then from the beginning, in the amendment, because we believed that the MPSV could capture those people who were getting out of it, despite our proposal, it was clear - people who are taking out insurance over the $3,000 and over the $10,000. So the whole argument that we don't know how many there are, we've told you how many there are, we've measured it, and both authorities, both the Department of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance have the overviews. I don't know if we're working with data. So, no, the data isn't the number of requests that people ask for, it's the number of people involved, and the slumps that they're going to experience because you've been thinking for a month how to represent it as your own project. That sounds really bad to me. I'll be glad if it's approved today, even though I'm not satisfied with the new form either, but at least something.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u33	Madam President Pekarová Adamová, President Jurečka will prepare and before that was Mr... Please, you have the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u34	I am pleased that the Minister is responding, so I would like to remind you of the question that has been raised here and which we have already asked, several of us, as will be the case with the CFI. Yes, I know it's in the gesture of Minister Havlíček, who is not here today, but I can't remember the Twitter exchange, which, before it was approved, took place, where you just fought for wanting to be children's parents not only from six to thirteen years old, but younger, that you won't let it, so how do you think about them now? So what will it be, and what can they prepare to be involved in? What's the government's deal? So in this case, there are a number of questions that have been raised here by President Stanjura about what kind of wage would be roughly equivalent to the amount that they have to admit today for every day. That, I want to remind you, has not yet been heard in any of your answers, and so let's not let this significant part of our parents get out of it. And so I also asked about the paperwork and the confirmation of school attendance. So is the government's decree definitively lifted? Of course, there is no primary school, high school to be open, so it's nonsense, I think, to burden with this. Can you make it better? You have some interest in this case at least now, exceptionally, adjusting the rules so that we can avoid the unnecessary burdens here. Maybe that's why the caregivers would have been done more in less time if we'd just forgiven ourselves for these papers, and if there were really any of those things that are pointless at the moment, they wouldn't have to be documented. That's the way. Let's look for the roads, see how we can simplify the situation for everyone. Already many of them are really wasted on pills. It's an e-mail to all of us. I don't think we're the only ones in opposition who get hundreds of emails from all those people who are desperate that they don't know how to help, I don't blame them, and who want our advice on what to do. Well, I'm sure you know that, and we can forward that to you eventually, and I'm sure you have to respond here in this case. Now maybe a lot of them are listening to us, so please give them these answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u35	Thank you. President Jurečka, then President Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u36	Thank you. I'd like to take advantage of the Prime Minister's presence now. Thank you for being here at that point. Prime Minister, a direct question for you. Please, if you could respond and explain as Prime Minister and Prime Minister why you have a problem admitting an elevated infirmary since March 11th to 80 percent. If I may ask, imagine if you were in a situation where you were 35 years younger, you were a parent, you had two or three children at home, you or your wife would stay at home with them, what would you say in the situation of that parent to count the government, which would say that way to those families - from March 11 to 31, you'll ride at 60 per cent when you go at 80 in April? And if the situation ends sometime May 25th or sometime early June, we're gonna tell those people that part of the month again, this place is gonna be 60? Or I don't understand why one part of the month is supposed to be worth less. And I don't understand anymore when the opposition here says she's ready to support the state's spending on this issue, why we're squabbling about it, why we're not willing to give it to those parents. I don't understand that at all. I beg you, Prime Minister, and I say again, it is not necessarily because of me, but you are the Prime Minister, if you could respond, Prime Minister, personally and tell the government why you have chosen this option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u37	Thank you. Chairman Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u38	Those stew logs and the results of the vote are a terrible thing. The Minister said a moment ago -- we Social Democrats have proposed 80 percent of the infirmary, we have pushed it or we are promoting it and we are going to enforce it. And what are the facts? If I wanted to be tough, I'd say the secretary's lying, and because I'm not tough, I'd say the secretary's wrong. [[17.10 hours]] At 7:38 p.m., Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal votes. Amendment E6 - Mr Jurečka - increase of the infirmary to 80 per cent. Minister's opinion: opposition. Initiating vote. In the 38-order vote, I'm gonna open it up and look at the Social Democrats who designed it and enforce it. Present in the vote - 1 against, 5 abstained. Drsoň guy was the Minister of Culture, he was against it directly. [[Fun.]] The others got held up. Immediately thereafter, Vice-President Pikal says: We will now vote on Amendment F II - Mr Bauer - to increase the infirmary to 80 per cent. The Minister, who supported this from the start, said: disapproval. Then the number thirty-nine voting took place. Let's see the Social Democrats. Against 1, once again the harsh Minister of Culture, the others abstained. Not one for it. But as the Secretary of State said, I say, he's wrong, they supported it and promoted it from the start. And since repetition is the mother of wisdom, that day we voted on the proposal under the letter G of Mrs Pekarová Adamová - the increase of the Czech Republic to 80 per cent. The ministry's position - Madam Secretary insisted on its - disagreeable. You see the split personality. [[Fun.]] She is from the beginning for, and three dissenting! And how was her party, which was also pro from the start? In the vote number 40 - I really don't know how it turned out, so I am looking - yes, one against, tough Mr Feranec, 38 abstained. So it's a zero. ODS all for, Pirates all for, SPD all for, ČSSD - Lubomír Zaorálek did not remain in the role of Drson, he also delayed. [[Laughter.]] Six were delayed, no one opposed, no one for. So, ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State here is seriously telling us that the Social Democrats invented it, designed it, and supported it. Three times she was against not only her, she can't vote, we know that, but not one vote in three votes was found in the Social Democrats' ranks for this proposal. So don't tell us you were in favour. You were just against it! No, you're late. The Minister of Culture was against only twice! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u39	We are continuing the general debate. Mrs Šafránková is now registered, Mr Sklenák will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Allow me to briefly present our three amendments, which I propose for our SPD club on this government amendment on some social security adjustments. First amendment. There we propose that employees working for employment agreements and labour agreements should also be entitled to an emergency treatment fee of CZK 424 per day for the duration of emergency measures and the closure of schools and kindergartens, i.e. until 30 June at the most, provided that they pay sickness insurance. It is to a large extent working and often low-income single moms who are currently not entitled to practically any assistance from the state, because even if these agreements are (?), for example, self-employed persons, do not receive a special infirmary for business purposes as a secondary activity and does not receive a compensatory bonus, because this secondary activity is the reason for their employment. This puts them in a critical social situation. In this way, we propose by the second amendment that persons who are self-employed, who are also disabled pensioners, should also be entitled to an emergency infirmary of CZK 424 per day. And in the last amendment, we repeatedly propose that not only parents but also close relatives of the child under 65 years of age who are also insured workers should be entitled to this emergency infirmary. Thank you and I'm sorry, I'm done breathing because of the drape.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u41	Thank you. Mr Roman Sklenák, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u42	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, first of all, on the smiling reservations that by approving a 60 per cent infirmary a month ago, we ruined those family budgets. I would just like to point out to all of you that the infirmary is not a new term in our legal order. Infirmary has been used for many years and, of course, for the original purpose, it means that parents stay with their children who have been ill or have had any accident. And do you know how much these parents use the infirmary? It's at 60 percent, so I find it incredible that the entire opposition here is telling us how little it is, how little it is to live with it, how difficult these families are in existence. So can I at least ask the rhetorical question, if they're caring for the kid after the trauma or seriously ill, and they have the 60%, they don't have the problems? They only have them when the kids can't go to school and they're at home with them. It's just hypocritical of you, that! When we were discussing this, we were discussing a long-term infirmary, so you had a million reservations about everything, and you never came up with the fact that 60 percent is not enough, and now you're telling us how to do social policy. You of all people! And the second thing is, in that discussion a month ago, the government and social democracy clearly said that we would return to the subject. That was said several times, even I said it on TV. We're simply based on the principle that there was a situation, like when you're sick, so in the first days of the illness, you get a lower amount than in the others. We just said, we're starting at 60 percent, and we're going to go back to that, and we're probably going to target at 80 percent. And that's exactly what happened, and that's why we're here today. I would also like to point out in my contribution to the amendment, which has already been announced here, to which I will, of course, sign up in a detailed debate and which we are presenting with a fellow Member, Jana Pastuchová. It is precisely what has also been mentioned several times, and this is a treatment for people working on a work agreement and a work agreement. President Bartoš here also flamingly explained how we are copying again, and we could have already approved it if we had accepted the Pirates' proposal. But here's the discussion that this group of people should be entitled to some compensation and that we shouldn't let them down, it's happening from the very beginning. From the moment the social democracy came up with the idea of the infirmary, it began to talk about both the CFI and the DPP and the DPČ. We're discussing this. But the question is, how do we legalize it, what principle do we find to be fair? And what the pirát are suggesting is that whoever has a deal gets one amount, and if the deal is small-time, bigger, or the biggest, it doesn't interest them, it seems unfair to me. That is why my colleague Pastuchová and I are coming up with an amendment in the sense that this depends on the payment of sickness insurance. That seems fair to me, and if we approve this amendment, it is possible to draw back on that month of March. It's actually very bad breathing in that gown, and I think I'm out of time, so thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u43	The time limit has not been approved. I turned the stopwatch on automatically, then I turned it off again, so there was a chance to talk longer. President Bartoš with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u44	I'd just like to react quickly. I don't really care if someone's copying it or not, and I'm not even filming it. We found such a nice word for it behind the pirát, which is a little lenient with some of the procedures, and we always say that we inspired someone. This may mean different things, such as taking a proposal and then presenting itself as my own, but that doesn't tear my veins. On the last committee, I think it was Wednesday, there is a Mrs Richterová taking part in this committee, it was clearly said that you have no solutions, that the situation at the moment has no solutions. [[17.20 hours]] We mentioned those DPPs and DPČs from the beginning, because it was clear that they would not have an infirmary and would not even be entitled in the sense of other compensations. If it were a month, measure it. We're talking about some data coming from some kind of need analysis. So I don't know how those parties, whose ministers have under them the ministry's apparatus, what kind of analysis they're doing, when how many people it's going to hit and how they're going to get into the existential crisis, we've calculated on our analytical team about five people here at the MP's club in the first two hours after we've seen the proposal. And the proposal for the DPP and the DPC wasn't really there, it's going to be loaded today. I, therefore, have been warned here by Mrs Pastuchová that he has not even passed the committee's proceedings. So after the story on TV, how he just ditched these people in the long run, it was a hoo-hoo, and during the House meeting, there's gonna be a law that could have been here, and we could have discussed it, who and how much, the parameter, if you can figure it out in a day, when there's nothing in the morning, and you already have it at 2:00, so we can probably discuss it in a week, but in those stages when it was really needed. 'Cause I could quote too. Olga Richterová has 500 e-mails from people, maybe even more that describe the situation in which they are, because they have not received any money from any ministry in any program since the closure. I wonder what these people may be eating, they say that they are disappearing in food banks and expired rubber bears in the Ústí Region.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u45	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Jurečka and Mrs Pastuchová as rapporteur. In that order. The chairman has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u46	Thank you. I really don't want to argue about what anybody's ever said. I agree with what Roman Sklenák said here. Let's move on to that phase of helping these people. But then I would very much welcome it if it were said why we wouldn't do it from 11. 3. Backwards. I don't fully understand. And I would very much like you to consider one more thing. When we're increasing the infirmary here by 20 percent in people who have an employment ratio, if the government is thinking of increasing the infirmary by 20 percent, even in businessmen, because their amount is really extremely low. And now Minister Havlíček has also come - that it would also be good to say whether it is real that the payout process will speed up because people have written to me that they have actually asked, and actually the response is relatively slow. I understand the volume of requests is really big, but the pace that was now, at least what I saw the first, say, ten days, so it could take up to three months. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u47	Thank you. The rapporteur, Mrs Pastuchová, and then with priority rights, Minister Maláčová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u48	Thank you. I would only briefly respond through your response to Mr Bartoš, who is currently not saying that this amendment was not discussed this morning on the Committee on Social Policy. Well, there were more. They were not even discussing the proposals that are now in the system of Mr Jurečka. There are more amendments that have not been discussed this morning. I would not like to refer only to this one, which was announced by Mr Sklenák. And I have to say, as you're here defending yourself over this DPP, DPČ, so really from the Pirate workshop, we discussed it on the Social Policy Committee, and I'm glad it's set up fairly so that they don't get DPP and DPČ actually get exactly the same, but according to their contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u49	Madam Secretary has withdrawn her application for priority rights, but President Pekarová Adamová has applied with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u50	Thank you. I apologize to those who are waiting with a proper application, but I want to take advantage of the moment that the Minister of Transport and Industry, trade, has also come between us. And that there were a number of questions that he should know the answer to, but we didn't get the answers from Mrs. Maláčová, so I'll try with you. Minister, we have asked many here whether the CFI will be re-evaluated by the amount they receive in the infirmary today, if they will also be affected by the increase. Because we think it should, we call on you to do this. But I wonder if the Ministry is already working on this, because it is obviously not part of this law, but it is very closely related, and it also concerns a huge number of parents, the self-employed, who deserve it. So please just, if you'd at least answer us. Madam Secretary hasn't answered our question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u51	Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Havlíček with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly, yes, we are also counting on doing so for the Ombudsman at an increased limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u53	Thank you. Mrs Aulická Jírovcová signed up in the general debate, Mrs Richterová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u54	Thank you, Mr President, so I will try to be brief, but I do not know. I would like to respond to the debate that was here before me. I'm very sorry. Don't be mad at me. I really don't like what's going on here. In the end, we all agree that we want to help the needy, but we need to present here who thinks best and who hurts our citizens the most. The President of the Pirates here says that after a report in 168 governments, respectively. The Department of Labour and Social Affairs is starting to work. Well, I'm telling you that last week or the week before, we adopted the accompanying resolution that we proposed under the KSČM, surprisingly where we say, and we justified it here, and, by the way, fellow Members, as you call themselves the right, i.e. the opposition, because we also claim opposition, so you actually voted for it. I don't know what you're laughing at, but in any case, I would like to say that I have also justified the 80 per cent, why we didn't vote in the first wave when you guys suggested it, actually de facto all clubs, and our condition was that we give 80 per cent of the infirmary really to those people from 1 April, and there was also an accompanying resolution that spoke so, and there was one part under 1 that should actually be prepared to help those people who are on the DPP and DPČ. For me, there is just a big problem of what exists only in the Czech Republic. We talked about this today also on the Committee on Social Policy, that many people, and unfortunately so, many people in the Czech Republic have a major employment relationship at DPP and DPČ. I think that this is not okay, and the effects that the Labour Code allows are shown precisely, and when we have to say openly that it suits employers in particular, and unfortunately, very often also employees who will not see to the impacts that are being addressed, for example, within the scope of pension rights. I would also like to say that the 60 percent infirmary, which has now been, or will be, until 31 March, is a reduced daily assessment basis. This means that it's actually about 3/4 of the net wage, just to figure out what it looks like, and after the 80 percent approval, it's about 97 percent of the net income of the employee. And I am convinced, and we have also discussed this with our President, that the 60 per cent that has been set since 11 March, in fact, was also mentioned by Minister Maláčová, really with compensation for this on 10 March. We understand everyone's situation, which is why we appealed and said that from April 1st it is necessary to raise the amount of the infirmary to 80 percent. I'd also like to go back to the form, perhaps. You know, it seems to me, I understand that now the situation is confirming the school that it's closed, but, of course, it's a little different with the mother's, but on the other hand, we know that there's already been an approved timetable for returning the children to those schools for voluntary participation. And that means that there will actually be a need to cross out and confirm schools that the child returns to school on a voluntary basis and which he doesn't, and I think that to change the forms at this time for a period of one month, I think it really is completely unnecessary. [[17.30 hours]] And let me also say about the amendment tabled here by Mr Sklenák. We agree with this because, as I said at the beginning, I think we should be fair in this regard, and really how people who have the main income, and really, don't be mad at me, the main income on the agreement to carry out the work seems completely trivial to me. But even so, if she's doing to the state, I think the appropriate amount that was actually supposed to be done that month for the job done, so the lifting to those 80 percent of the infirmary is for these people, and, of course, the D.P.C., so I think it's really important. And it's especially fair to those employees who actually go to work classics and take the most money into the system. So I must say for us that I am very sorry about the whole discussion. And I believe that we should proceed in such a way that the effects are as small as possible. And we have to say openly that the infirmary actually accepts it with great will and especially employers, because it is also another solution for them, how not to release employees and keep them directly in income, so that the timetable is simply useful and good for them and even for those families, and they do not have to release them. And I'm more or less convinced that the procedure we have here today for approval is correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u55	Thank you. Mrs Olga Richterová is next. Mr Bendl will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u56	Thank you for the floor. Dear members of the government, esteemed colleagues in the hall and you who are watching. I want to sum up why we've been discussing for so long what comes before the vote, which I think we all assume will end up with people working on the insurance agreement getting the support, just like the employees are getting it. I want to remind you that, yes, the House adopted the accompanying resolution last week, but last week on the Social Policy Committee, when we asked how it would be, what are the ideas of the Ministry on the negotiator's infirmary and also on the compensation bonus for the negotiator, both said that there was no idea, nothing specific about that committee last week. And that's why I personally tried to communicate as intensively as possible with the media as possible, that it can't go on like this. A hundred and fifty thousand people roughly took out insurance from the agreements, and among them several tens of thousands of parents would not have a chance at the infirmary. And only after increased media pressure suddenly made a decision. Otherwise, it cannot be said that there was no amendment on the committee, which was between 10 and 11 a.m. today. The government proposal was uploaded into the system at 2:30 in the afternoon. In doing so, he will touch tens of thousands of people in the finals. And there are three hours between what has been recorded for information as a Member and what will be voted on. This is a very small time for any of his checks and assessments, and it shows that it was a quick morning decision. Of course, you can say that these are assumptions, but many arguments point to this. So I just want to summarize that this is simply not how a transparent and understandable policy should be done for people. People should be sure that the state won't let them fail through a sieve and that they won't make decisions based on the media articles. That he would make decisions based on what's fair, and when someone took the insurance, it's just fair that he gets the benefit, too. And one more comment. Overall, of course, we are aware in the Pirates that this is a change in labour law. We want understandable labour law and agreement regulation is one of the things that we will support as much as possible so that they remain flexible, but that they cannot be used for long-term, basically, employment-like employment. But it has to go hand in hand with the reduction of the workload. Just work is too expensive for employers today, so they use these forms of employment. Finally, the substance of the amendment that I propose behind the pirát is that ambition should be easier administratively. The ambition for the already heavily burdened state authorities is to be more processable than the individual assessment. Of course, the individual assessment is fairer, but we tried to offer some compromise between speed and administrative management in this amendment. So much for the pirát. Once again, if the situation were not such that there was a resolution 14 days ago at the House meeting, there is no information on any way in which the negotiators will be compensated, and until this morning the information is that the negotiators will therefore be compensated, but that it is still being worked out, so if it were not all so ad hoc unpredictable and inconspicuous for people, we would not be discussing so strongly here today. But I think citizens deserve predictable and data-based decision-making. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u57	Thank you. Member Petr Bendl. And Mr. Jiří Bláha will prepare himself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u58	Have a good day. Mr President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, let me also say a few words on the subject. Whatever the case, I am very glad that we are discussing agreements at all and that it seems that the will to finally do something for them in the Chamber of Deputies is because at the last meeting, the government majority rejected it. After all, there's been a very detailed debate here, and I don't want to go back to that. At the committee meeting, where we did not even have the promised analysis, which the Minister promised to deliver to the committee, because here we are also limited in our area to discuss the subject of this bill, we can, unfortunately, speak only once, and the analysis here is read by the Minister from her mobile phone instead of at least doing what she promised to send us in advance. I consider the amendment to come here almost in the course of discussing this point in an emergency state, but I think we have no choice but to take note of it. It's a shame you treat us like this. I said on the committee that I support the proposal submitted by colleagues from the SPD and the Pirates, which was just about the DPP and DPČ, because we simply deliberately abandoned them, because we cannot say that it was unconscious, and they need the support and it is absolutely necessary that they receive it in whatever form. I mean, we're gonna support all these proposals because we want them to be something. What do I want to ask you? Madam Secretary here said the infirmary should be here by 30. 6. Whereas the holidays will begin and then the infirmary will be over. Did I get that right, Madam Secretary? I hope so. However, kindergarten schools do not close on 1 July. Mother schools work in normal condition during July and August and there are always some deadlines with the fact that the kindergarten has to take some sanitary break, maybe vacations and so on. There is a week, 14 days, when children or parents of children who put in kindergarten know that the kindergarten will be closed, and they have to get a babysitter and so on. [[17.40 hours]] However, what will happen to the infirmary if nursery schools are closed in July and August? They will be paid in accordance with this law when you say as of 30. 6. It's over? That's what I'm interested in. I ask you to answer that, so that everyone knows that they should be prepared for the government's decision to do so in July and August, regardless of their duty to babysit, and so on, because I don't think they've thought about it again. I ask for an explanation of this situation, because it is important for a lot of people. They've already taken vacations, dealt with the ad hoc situation with their relatives. Anyone who could have helped this family babysit, that's how they helped. And if they're still waiting in July and August, they'll get into very unsolvable situations in my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u59	Thank you. Mr Jiří Bláha, so far the last one entered in the general debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u60	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if it's populism or ignorance, but certainly if we approve what we're proposing, that means 80 percent of the reduced base of the infirmary, we won't have anyone at work who can stay in the infirmary by the end of the holidays. Because that's when it comes to the fact that - and I'm going to show it to you on the figures that out of 32,500 gross crowns, from which a normal employee gets roughly 25,000 pure, the one who has 60 percent is just 17 340, but with a tax return it's already 19 410. And the one with 80 percent will get 23,070 crowns pure in 30 days. And plus tax return, that's 25,140. So, as a result, whoever stays home in the infirmary gets more money than the one who goes to work. But look out! To work with most of the affected companies, so he can't reach what he had before. It may reach 90 percent. That's when he gets to some 22,000. Maybe it'll only reach 80 percent, at which point it'll be between some 19 and 20,000 pure. But maybe it will also reach only 60 percent. Because those companies that aren't gonna be supported, like they're all the companies I've been talking about, and I wanted to bring up the negotiations that work today, even though they don't have sales, so they're not even entitled to the crown of wage support. And at that point, we're gonna get into the state that some of the employees who didn't want to call me yesterday, and they begged us not to have to be in the nursing home because they wanted to make the money, and they stayed at work, so they immediately called to say that they'd like to stay at the nursing home right now. And they said, "You won't see us until the end of the holiday." So it's just, I want us to realize that we're building a big social problem here. On the one hand, we will have a group of people who will receive - and these are those who remain at home in closed operations, who will receive 100 percent, they are mostly officials. Then we're gonna have a group of people here who couldn't stay at home in closed operations because the firm can't do it, so they're trying to save the company, and they're not gonna get anything. They're gonna go home, maybe with a cry. And then there's a group of people like the people at the offices who get 100 percent again. And then there's this group that goes to work every day, but the company doesn't have sales, it doesn't have turnovers, and they're going to be 60, 70, maybe 80 percent at work. What's gonna happen? Those people who are going to be like this, and sometimes it's going to be that there's gonna be two groups within one company, so they're gonna hate each other, they're gonna be jealous of each other, they're gonna have more and less. Although one goes to work and works and tries to help the company, and the other is at home. How's that gonna turn out? So I would suggest, let's choose the golden middle road. This means that at 70 percent we have some 20,000 net that this person gets, plus tax return, which is another 2 070 crowns, so it gets to CZK 22,900. And it's going to be, I think, evenly balanced if that company only steps down to 90 percent of the salary. And I'm sure the person in question will want to go back to the company and work the moment the company returns to normal. Thank you for your attention. And I hope you make the right decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u61	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? He's not reporting. I am ending the general debate. Neither the rapporteur nor the Minister has any interest in the final words after the general debate. I am therefore opening up a detailed debate. President Marian Jurečka is entered into a detailed debate with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I just want to sign up for the amendments under number 4994 - it is an amendment concerning an infirmary for parents who would like their child, even if the school facility opens, to keep at home so that they can draw on the infirmary, as I mentioned in the general debate. [[The rapporteur shall approach the speaker and consult him on the draft number outside the microphone.]] Sorry. 4974, then 4975. So much, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u63	Yes, thank you. Mrs Šafránková, Mr Sklenák will be ready. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to sign up for my amendments, which I have justified in the general debate. The first has the number of House document 4924. It proposes that they should be entitled to the infirmary and self-employed persons who are also disabled pensioners. The second amendment is under the number of House document 4925. And he deals with making sure that special infirmary is also entitled to close relatives of a child who do not live permanently with a child in the common home and are also insured employees. And the last amendment is under the number of House document 4956. He proposes that employees working for labour agreements and employment agreements that carry out sickness insurance should also be entitled to a medical care allowance of CZK 424. Thank you, and I ask for their support in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u65	Thank you, Madame. And before I give the floor to Mr Sklenák, President Jurečka, with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u66	Thank you very much. I'm still coming back here because the rapporteur here has easily confused me. But just so we're clear, it's perfectly clear. So I'm applying to Amendment 4994, 4974 and 4975. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u67	Thank you, too. Mr Roman Sklenák, Mrs Richterová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u68	Thank you. So I am signing up for the amendment that I presented in the general debate and is being conducted in our system under number 4998. It is the establishment of entitlement to the infirmary, as well as to persons working on the work agreement and the work agreement on the basis of the amount of premiums paid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u69	Yes, thank you. Mrs Richterová, Mr Jiří Bláha will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u70	Thank you for the floor. I am applying to Amendment 4957, which once again concerns people working on agreements that carried out sickness insurance. Its aim is for this to be a compromise between fairness and lower administrative complexity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u71	Thank you. And the last one entered into the detailed debate is Mr Jiří Bláha. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read an amendment which should sound exactly the same as we have with 80 per cent, with the difference that instead of 80 per cent there will be a percentage of 70. If there's any way to put it in the system, I'd love to. So the same wording as the 80 per cent proposal, just the fact that we're going to propose 70 per cent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u73	Thank you. I'm ending the debate in detail. Is there interest in final words? Not interested. [[Members are debating.]] Is there interest in the final word after a detailed debate at second reading? I would suggest that we take a two-minute break in order to consult legislation. [[The rapporteur proposes that it be five minutes.]] Five minutes. Okay, thank you. So at this point, there's no interest in final words. I conclude a detailed debate, and that concludes a second reading of this proposal. We can, theoretically, immediately proceed to the third reading, but since an amendment has been tabled here, where it is necessary to clarify the form in which we will vote on it and, if possible, at the request of the rapporteur, I am declaring a five-minute break. At 17.56, we'll continue with the third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Rule 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. 7 The Act on Rules of Procedure may be followed by a third reading of the bill immediately after reading the second. I am opening this third reading and opening the debate. No one is reporting for the third reading, and I am ending the debate. There is no interest in the final words after the third reading either, so I will ask the rapporteur, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, to introduce us to the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make a motion for a vote. We would be the first to vote - I will then tell you what it is about each and every one when we vote. Procedure for voting: We would be the first to vote on Amendment 4956 by Mrs Šafránková. If this amendment is approved, there will be an unvoted amendment of Mr 4998 to Mr Sklenák and Mrs 4957 to Mrs Richterová. If it is not approved, we will vote on Mr Sklenák's amendment 4998. If this amendment is approved, Amendment 4957 will not be a voteable amendment to Mrs Richterová. If it is not approved, we will vote on Amendment 4957 to Mrs Richterová. Next, we would vote on Amendment 4924 by Mrs Šafránková. Another vote 4925 by Mrs Šafránková. Another 4974 Mr Jurečka, Mr 4975 Mr Jureček, Mr 4994 Mr Jurečka and then Mr Bláha's proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u76	Thank you. That was the procedure proposal. Does anyone else have a proposal or a proposal to modify the procedure? No, so we will vote on the procedure as proposed by the rapporteur, Mrs Pastuchová. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 35, 190 Members registered, for 184, against no one. We have approved the procedure and we will now proceed accordingly. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u77	We will now vote. I'm just please, I'm sorry if I'm gonna make a little mistake about what this is about, but I don't think so. But just in case, I'm sorry in advance, it's really short notice. So, Mrs Šafránková, 4956, this is an amendment to the DPP, the DPČ.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u78	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 36, 192 Members registered, for 83, versus 7. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u79	Since this proposal has not been adopted, we will be voting on the amendment of Mr Sklenák and Mr Pastuchová 4998.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u80	Madam Secretary's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 37, 192 Members registered, for 184, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u81	And since this proposal has been adopted, it is Mrs Richterová's unvoting amendment 4957. We will also vote on proposal 4924 by Mrs Šafránková. They're disabled pensioners.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u82	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 38, 192 Members registered, in favour of 84, against 3. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u83	Next we will vote 4925, Mrs Šafránková, the infirmary is extending to a relative relationship.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u84	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 39, 192 Members registered, for 83, versus 9. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u85	We are now going to vote on Mr Jurečka's amendment 4974 and it is about the fact that the state should be paying back from day one at the time of the quarantine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u86	Opinion, please. [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 40, 191 Members signed in for 82, versus 3. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u87	We will now vote on Amendment 4975 to Mr Jurečka, saying that 80 per cent should be paid back from 11 March.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u88	Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 41, 192 Members registered, for 83, versus 3. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u89	We will now also vote on Mr Jurečka's 4994 amendment, which proposes that the infirmary be reimbursed until 31 August.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u90	Opinion, please. [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 42, 192 Members registered, for 74, against 3. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u91	We will be the last to vote on a loaded amendment without Mr Bláha's number, which proposes to reduce 80 per cent of the proposed amendment to 70 per cent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-003-002.u92	Madam Secretary, your position, please. [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 43, 191 Members signed in, for 7, against 28. The motion was not accepted. We have thus voted on all the amendments and will proceed to the vote on the whole proposal as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 133/2020 Coll., on certain social security adjustments in connection with emergency measures in the 2020 epidemic, according to the House of Press 828, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 44, 192 Members registered, for 184, against no one. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I'm done talking to him. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the Minister. [[18.10 hours]] Now, let's look at the point.
