ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u1	220. Government bill amending Act No. 280/2009 Coll., Tax Code, as amended, and other related laws /house print 580/ - third reading I ask that the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which is the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá, take up the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 580/3, which was delivered on 22 January 2020. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House Press 580/4. I am now asking the appellant, which is the Minister, whether she is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? Are you interested in getting off? [[The Minister is briefly speaking to the President off the microphone.]] So it's the third reading, you can. It is only a question of whether you are interested in speaking before the debate is opened. You don't have to be interested. You can also speak in the debate when you want. You have priority rights. So you're interested in speaking, Madam Secretary, before the debate is opened? You do, yes. So be ready in peace... And you have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly state the draft law amending Act No. 280/2009 Coll., Tax Code, as amended, and other related laws. The proposed law is mainly the implementation of the My Tax project, or modern and simple tax, and focuses mainly on four basic topics in the area of tax management, namely the promotion of electronicisation, simplification of control procedures, revision of the penalty system and introduction of the tax deduction advance institute. Since the proposal is now being discussed in the third reading, I do not think that its detailed performance is necessary because it was presented in all the previous readings. In the discussion that took place in plenary and in the committees on the government proposal, these main pillars of the amendment are somewhat extinct, which is mainly due to the extraction of individual topics from the overall context. For example, there is a criticism that interest paid to a tax entity is reduced, but it is no longer provided that all interest is reduced to the uniform price of money applicable in the private sector. In particular, the interest paid by tax entities, which account for more than 20 times the amount of funds, is reduced. This is therefore the most significant reduction in sanctions in the tax area since the beginning of the creation of a new tax system in the early 1990s and the creation of a fair and transparent system, which was also acknowledged by the Supreme Administrative Court. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] [[14.50 hours]] The extension of the deadline by 15 days for the recovery of excess deduction for uncontrolled tax entities is being criticised, but it is no longer provided that this is a necessary consequence for the tax administrator to be able to relieve those in charge of the total excess deduction being held for some time more than a year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u3	So I'm gonna ask you to calm down so the secretary can express herself, because even I can't hear exactly what the secretary is talking about up here. So, please, calm down!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u4	Thanks to the introduction of an advance on the tax deduction, an undisputed portion of the funds withheld can be paid without the need to wait for the termination of the assessment procedure. It is argued that the tolerance period for late payment of tax and tax returns is being abolished, but it is no longer provided that it is replaced by an increase in the limit for the imposition of sanctions and their current reductions, resulting in a much longer tolerance for the vast majority of entities. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs will thus be able to wait a long time to pay the tax without the risk of creating interest on late payments. If I use the analogy used by colleagues from opposition parties that, by extending the 15-day deadline for the recovery of excessive public budgets, they borrow 24 billion year on year, it would be fair to admit that a new concept of tolerance will guarantee an interest-free loan from the state, not only on value added tax but on all taxes. For example, the one who pays 50 grand. CZK, will be able to uninterestingly miss 74 days, at tax 100 thousand. That'll be 37 days. No one will be surprised that the position of the Ministry of Finance on most of the amendments applied at second reading will be negative. The reasons for our position were given in a written opinion and discussed in detail on the Guarantee Budget Committee. However, I would like to comment here on the amendment on which the Ministry of Finance cooperated. This is an amendment by the President of the budget committee Vostrá, who responds to the recent decision of the Constitutional Court on form submissions. Although, in the long run, I consider it desirable that legislative changes in the tax field should, as far as possible, go through a comprehensive legislative process and discussions with the professional public, as is the case with government bills, in this case it was necessary to respond to an operational situation that occurred at a time when the government proposal was already submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. The Constitutional Court annulled the provisions of the tax rules on form submissions at the end of this year and thus, in fact, determined a deadline for the Government and the legislators to adopt a new amendment which would replace the annulled regulation in the spirit of the conclusions of the Constitutional Court's finding. In view of the fact that the standard legislative process usually lasts for more than one year in the Czech Republic, I consider the way of the parliamentary amendment to the already tabled House of Press, which also amends the same paragraph, to be practically the only one that guarantees timely adoption and the creation of sufficient space for the subsequent legislative process of the decrees on tax forms, for which the Ministry of Finance should be newly empowered. For this reason, I am expressing my support for President Vostrá's amendment. Thank you for your attention at the moment and I am ready to respond to any other suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u5	I am opening a debate in which Mr Miroslav Kalousek is entered with priority rights. Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, let me ask for your support before the vote...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u7	I'll ask you to remain calm in the left side of the hall, on the left.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u8	Allow me, before the vote, to request support for any of the amendments which prevent the extension of the time limit for withholding the excess deduction from 30 to 45 days. Several amendments are made. One of them is my...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u9	Well, I have to ask you again to calm down. So I really want to ask you to calm down, because the MP is not hearing and interrupting his speech, so then I would have to call a break so he doesn't have to interrupt. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u10	There are several amendments, one of which is mine. And I don't give a damn whether it's gonna be supported by mine or any other, but I care if the deadline isn't extended from 30 to 45 days. I would like to rely on this request in particular on the fact that the Ministry of Finance argues completely falsely when justifying this deadline. Even the Minister has now mentioned in her speech that the extension from 30 to 45 days is necessary as a result of the introduction of a so-called advance on excess deductions, which means that the Institute is being newly introduced, when the financial authority returns the part of the excess deduction that it does not intend to verify in the context of the control activity, and claims that this is the reason why the deadline needs to be extended from 30 to 45 days. Please, that's a lie like a tower. If you don't mind, I'd like to describe it in comparison to the current situation and the situation that this law will instigate if it is approved. In the present situation at the time when the tax return is lodged and the right to excessive deduction is claimed, the tax administrator shall run a 30-day period within which it shall consider whether the claim complies with the requirement, or whether the excess deduction shall be withheld and the control operation shall commence. That 30-day deadline is a search and 95 percent after that 30-day search period is a financial... If only Stanjura hadn't yelled like that!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u11	Well, I have to ask you again to calm down. I'm asking for the third time, so I guess I'm gonna have to take a minute's pause to make those who speak outside the speaker realize that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u12	Colleagues, don't be angry. I don't read my speeches. I'm trying to talk downstairs to be more clear, but then it takes a little more focus. I'm not capable of a simulation. I'm sorry. One more time. So after that 30-day search period, statistically about 5 percent of the cases, the Treasury decides to hold the overpayment and start a control or assessment activity, during which it either makes it clear that everything is okay, and then sometimes it comes back, or sometimes it doesn't, it measures, it's a common process. Now the Ministry says, 'Cause from what we don't control... [[Silence for noise, the speaker waits.]] [[15.00 hours]] Now the Ministry says, 'Cause we're gonna get it back from what we're not gonna control, so we need that search deadline 15 days longer. - But there's no reason for that. It follows from the law, as it is presented, that the establishment of the advance will take place only in the context of the control activity, not in the context of the search activity. And so is the bill, and so I agree with it in principle, unless it extends the deadline. That is, if the Ministry of Finance is saying today "we need to extend the search activity by 15 days to 45 days, because we're going to set advances on excessive deductions," then the Ministry is lying, because the over-depreciation advances will be set only within the scope of the control activity that will take place after the search period. And as part of the search activity, it will not have one more operation, not one more duty. He's just gonna get 15 more days on her. It is quite obvious and clear from the diction of the law. Yet we have been overwhelmed by this argument since the first reading. The members of the Committee on Budgets shall have in their supporting documents that it is necessary to extend the time limit because there will be advances on excess deductions. It's not true. Again, in the context of the search operation, there will be no obligation on the financial authority, not one more operation. The operation will not be able to set an over-deductible advance for him until the control operation, but that is after the 45-day or 30-day period and there is no longer any deadline. So there's only two options. Be Madam Secretary The Chamber of Deputies lies with the fact that it gives a proxy, because the only real reason is to improve the public cash flow by 24 billion at the expense of the VAT payers, or the Minister has been tricked by his officials who want to have a 15-day longer deadline for a search operation without adding a single act to it. He repeats the lie here after them in good faith. And in this case, I ask her to acknowledge my argument, because that is what it really is, and to support one of these amendments. One or the other. Either the secretary is deliberately deceiving us, then the 45 days will last. Or he deceives us unconsciously, and then I ask her very much to consider it and support an amendment for 30 days. Either way, I beg you very much, given that the Ministry of Finance's argument is completely false, so that you do not accept it and support any of these amendments. I am addressing, in particular, members of social democracy. If the bill is passed, it will be applied very soon. When it is applied very soon and you will say again, my dear colleagues from social democracy, as you have not thought about it and how this confusion needs to be corrected, I would like to remind you that the opportunity to think about it here was three quarters of a year and now it is now. Now and on the basis of my urgent argument, which I am at any time prepared to prove on the various provisions of the tax system. I therefore ask once again for the support of one of the amendments, which will not allow entrepreneurs, VAT payers, to freely lend the state over a transitional period, which will, of course, be a completely different burden on small and medium-sized and completely different weights on capital-strong groups, which will be more easily dealt with. For the little ones, it can sometimes have an existential impact. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u13	Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will now appear and Mr Jan Hrnčíř will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I recognise, of course, that this law brings a number of positives, in particular enabling the system to be launched. My taxes to integrate tax payments from different systems as well as reduces some interest payments, as well as extends the deadline for filing a 30-day tax return if it is submitted electronically. These are all positive changes that we welcome. We think that the law should go further, that it would be necessary to integrate social and health insurance into the My Tax portal, that it is in fact the most important functionality that should become a priority focus, which unfortunately is missing, or so at least get the opportunity to generate a form from it easily. But it's at least a small step forward. Then there are a number of things where the Ministry and I argue about whether the law is not too strict, or whether it is unnecessarily disturbing some concessions, there are disputes about the five-day period of interest rates. For example, I think that in the case of illegal hedging orders, the State should pay companies double the interest, or four times as suggested by some colleagues, because the real impact of illegal hedging orders can be completely liquidation for companies. And I don't think the D.O.D.'s claim that the company can sue the state for damages is gonna stand up to me. I think they're supposed to receive some relevant compensation automatically in the form of that double interest, as I suggest, and if the damage goes beyond that, they're supposed to go into litigation. I think it's also inappropriate to tell entrepreneurs that if they want to get redress, the main road is to be a judicial path. So these are all things where some of them are positive, let's argue somewhere, but it's probably not entirely crucial to support or not supporting the law. The most problematic point is the retention of CZK 24 billion for 15 days each month to companies that pay VAT. And these 24 billion crowns that will be detained are justified by the share of 800 million crowns. That means, for 800 million -- and only parts of them -- part of them still being detained -- is to be held back 24 billion. 24 billion crowns for 15 days each month are hundreds of millions paid on interest. This means that banks will be the biggest beneficiary of this measure. When we look at the interest paid by private companies compared to the interest paid by the state, it makes absolutely no sense. Here companies will pay units of percent interest - I don't know the detailed situation, but it will be somewhere typically between two and six percent of annual interest - while the state is borrowing at rates that are significantly below this limit today, sometimes even negative at interest. So we're making cash flow worse for companies that are going to borrow expensively instead of leaving it to a state that borrows much cheaper. There's absolutely no logic to that. And the only reason why this measure is being implemented is to virtually inflate the state budget to bring CZK 16 billion to the state budget, 8 billion to the budgets of the regions and municipalities one-time. That means, this one year will improve the outcome, the next years will go back to normal, where the government will come up with some other one-time income, which will be at the expense of, say, reserves for the future. When there is a real economic crisis and there is a need to deal with it, the reserves will suddenly not be. [[15.10 hours]] If that were not the case and if it were really about making the process more effective, the government has a simple tool to minimize the impact on companies, and that would shift the VAT maturity on the other hand. That means, we're OK, we've got 15 extra days, but we'll give you, like, 5 extra days to get the VAT paid. And ideally, the government should set it up to balance the cash flow roughly. And then I would trust the secretary that it was really about the advances, that it was about the certainty of tax entities. But at a time when no such adjustment has taken place and merely holds back 24 billion cash flow to a whole segment of the economy - and it is already written in the state budget that it is revenue for this year, even though the law has not been approved - it is quite obvious that the main reason is the improvement optically. It's purely optical, because there's no economic growth, it's just going to hold back money 15 days longer, it's going to optically improve the state's management. We can't agree to this. For this reason, we will abstain from this bill, although we know it brings a number of positive things, we have proposed some ourselves, as was the 30 days extra for electronic filing of tax returns. However, the 24 billion that the government is confiscating, but periodically, to companies, is a gross mistake that we cannot vote for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u15	Mr Jan Hrnčíř will now appear and Mr Tomáš Martínek will be prepared. Oh, with priority rights. Excuse me, please, and Mr Jan Hrnčíř will be prepared by the President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, formally, so as not to forget, I suggest that we repeat the second reading. The main reason is not the political dispute over individual amendments, to which I will return in the second part, but that, in our opinion and for example. Even in the view of the Chamber of Tax Advisors, the proposal prepared by the Ministry of Finance and submitted by President Vostrá does not correspond to the decision of the Constitutional Court. We have really discussed this quite closely with the Committee on Budgets, but the Minister has asked me to be specific about what this does not correspond in our view to the Constitutional Court's decision. [[The speaker is silent, there's noise in the hall. - So...]] I know, I'll get through the microphone, please, thank you. The Minister knows this, but for all of you, I will repeat three key articles from the Constitutional Court's decision, which abolished part of the current tax order, which concerned so-called. tax forms. And it was points 39, 40, 41. I quote them to you first, and then I will describe to you how, in my opinion, the Ministry of Finance has dealt with this poorly, and how simply the Ministry of Finance could deal with it, I would say, with the support of the entire Chamber of Deputies, because it is not so politically escalated. "The Constitutional Court considers that there is no objection to the Institute of the prescribed form in terms of constitutionality. However, if the completion of the form is required as an obligation, the content of the form must be - in order for its contents, I repeat - "to be prescribed by law. In the case of a form the form of which is not given by law or by law, an abstract control of the constitutionality of the imposed obligations is not possible.' This means, when I translate it, the Constitutional Court says: if it is to be a tax form, it must be formulated by law so that, if necessary, the Constitutional Court can check its constitutionality. If it is not there, the Constitutional Court is not actually able to check the constitutionality of such a Financial Administration procedure. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court continues: "The Constitutional Court concluded that the contested provision of Section 72 (2) of the Constitutional Court, following the findings of the file mark of the Constitutional Court 2410 and the file mark of the Constitutional Court 3215. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 3 of the Charter.' Here, in principle, in this paragraph, the Constitutional Court has shown why the previous wording of the tax rules in paragraph 72 - or in what it violated constitutionality. And it's not a trivial thing. The constitutional right to protection against unauthorised collection, disclosure or other misuse of personal data has been violated. So let's imagine if someone else was doing this, what far-reaching consequences it would have had. That's why the paragraph in the tax code was abolished. And point 41, which complements the two previous points: "Therefore, the Constitutional Court has no choice but to state that the contested provision does not fulfil the conditions laid down by the constitutional order for imposing an obligation on the tax entity to communicate in the application for tax registration, respectively. in the notification of the change in registration data and in the correct or additional tax claim, the information necessary for the administration of taxes. This does not preclude any legal authorisation of the Ministry of Finance.' It is clear from these three paragraphs that the Constitutional Court requires the Ministry of Finance, under legal authority, to lay down the content of the tax form by decree. Unfortunately, and the Minister has not answered my question to the Committee on Budgets, if this simple provision had been passed on by the Ministry of Finance officials to the amendment, I think that this amendment will receive the support of actually all the Members present, because it could be very simple. Ministry of Finance - I'm sorry. President Vostrá proposes that in § 72 para. 4 - has the following text: "The Ministry of Finance shall, to the extent necessary for each type of tax, lay down the details of the data and the requirements which may be required in the formulated submission or, where applicable, in the draft submission. its layout or format of the form submission.' I do not understand why the Ministry of Finance defied the Constitutional Court's decision because that paragraph could have been very simple and non-conflict and could have sounded for example. as follows: The Ministry of Finance is authorised to issue a form submission by decree. It could have been that simple, not just the details of the data and the particulars. In public space - and it was thanks to Mr Ferjenčík, it is always necessary to remind those who have noticed this - that the form submission for the so-called. paper EET, respectively. for those who will use in EET a special mode that had 540 boxes for one quarter. I noticed it's already been downloaded from the Financial Administration website. But if it were the decree of the Ministry of Finance, first, it would get into that public space sooner, and everyone could defend themselves, and the Constitutional Court could explore constitutionality. If I were to use the words of Andrej Babiš by commenting on those true tables that showed VAT on beer, then in Andrej Babiš's words it was probably written by some dumb-ass table that nobody asked him to write. I think the words of Andrej Babiš fit the case, and the table was downloaded. On this particular case, I am showing you why it is important to comply with the wishes of the Constitutional Court so that those who make it have a responsibility, so that it is legislation, so that, where appropriate, those who are required to do so can defend themselves in the Constitutional Court. And we believe that the wording - I'm sorry, I have to quote this - "will specify details of the data and the requirements" does not correspond to the content. We can argue about it, but I don't think the dispute is completely pointless, petty, and I don't know why the Treasury is running it. That is why I propose to repeat the second reading, with the Ministry of Finance finishing or changing this amendment, and he fully corresponds to the Constitutional Court's decision. Of course, we don't know if, if it's approved here and in the Senate, and it's signed by the President, whether those involved in this professionally or in their business will again attack the Constitutional Court. It's likely. And it's pointless to burden the Constitutional Court with another agenda when we can sort this out in a relatively conformal and non-conflict way here. That was the justification for the procedural proposal for repeating second reading. And of these amendments - my fellow Members from my parliamentary club will undoubtedly present their amendments. [[15.20 hours]] I was wondering what to do with the extension of the VAT refund deadline. I didn't believe for a second that it actually surprised those officials or the secretary and that they didn't expect it to have 27 - not 24, 27 billion balances in public budgets. On the other hand, I perceived the need for the Financial Administration to extend the control period. So I have prepared a compromise proposal - there are also proposals that completely release this provision - that is, to extend the deadline by 5 days, from 30 to 35. [[Nesroz.]] That's 17 percent. That's not enough, 17 percent. Yes, the government is proposing 50 percent. And I'm proposing 17 as a compromise, and in two years' time, we could evaluate it whether it's enough or not, and whether there's going to be a drop in that withheld piece of VAT. By the way, it is a response to the Supreme Administrative Court's decision, it is no initiative and no good that the Ministry of Finance or the Financial Administration would do, only with a delay, overdue delays, respond to the case law of the Supreme Administrative Court. If you look at the dissenting position of the Ministry of Finance, first of all, I admit I'm not interrupting it, but the magic of those five days is that it wouldn't be the 27 billion that it would have a zero fiscal impact on the state budget. Yes, entrepreneurs would, as the Minister of the opposition says, and she is right, we say so, entrepreneurs would not lend these 27 billion for 15 days without interest, but to 5, to a third of what the government wants. That's a compromise. It's not pure negation. The pure negation is, of course, the most correct solution, but I understand that it is not a government majority, so I tried to accommodate it, but even this compromise proposal by the Ministry of Finance and the Minister is not willing to... So a simple report for our dear taxpayers: the Minister has decided, probably with the support of the Government's majority in the House, that is, members of the ANO movement, Social Democrats and Communists, to borrow 27 billion from you on an interest-free basis and promises you that of the amount of 800 million, which is about the amount that he is withholding VAT, again it is not the goodwill of the Financial Administration, but the response to botched detention orders and lost litigation, but good that he is coming, late, but still, so it is good. And I have to say, the biggest atrocities in the area of delaying orders were under the former Director-General of the Financial Administration and former finance ministers. That has to be said fairly. And it's a good thing he's not there. But I've already asked the secretary on the budget committee rhetorically, and I'm going to ask that question to you and try to answer each other's questions. Of the 800 million improved control will be less expensive, promises by the Financial Administration. Even if it's a zero, which is nonsense, it's never gonna be a zero, but even if it's a zero, it's a great deal. I'll save you $800 million and you give me $27 billion. So each of you answer who would do the deal if you were to either get $800 million or pay $27 billion. I'd like to see who would... And you can't use zeros in there. We don't have to have billions there, it's hard to imagine that you would pay 20 - some can imagine that, but some can't. So let's just cross out three zeros, six zeros, the ratio is still the same. It's not like any of you are gonna make a bargain like this. If so, not that he didn't graduate from mathematics, but he didn't benefit either from mathematics or from primary school if such a business is considered to be advantageous. Yet the attraction of the money and the artificial improvement of the state budget's economic result is so strong that the Minister says it's a proclient bill, 27 billion for 800 million. I don't want a free discount, as the classic says in a famous Czech film. Well, that's exactly the case. In general, even the new project My taxes, at least from what's in the explanatory statement, are disappointing so far. This does not change so much, for Mr Ferjenčík, through the Vice-President, Mr Ferjenčík. When you read this in detail and debate with those who communicate with the Financial Administration today and daily, it is not a qualitative leap. It's still one-way communication. One would expect two-way communication in modern times. Yes, canceling the single collection point that was supposed to pay x years was easy, and now we have a plan that for - I don't know, it's been seven years since the cancellation, so I don't know, in 10, 12, 15, I don't know, we're gonna come up with something that won't be called a single collection point, but it's gonna be the new functionality of a great software solution to My tax. As a taxpayer, I never say my taxes, I say state taxes or your taxes. Because my taxes would be if I collected them, but I'm paying them, so those taxes are someone other than the taxpayer. [[Secretary off the mic.]] I know it's a shortcut, and the CRAB was a shortcut, and I know it. For the Minister - I'll go to the National Investment Plan, on the know-how of Andrej Babiš. So he took the existing strategic document from the Ministry of Transport, where there are actually 6 trillion buildings, it is no know-how, which is called very boring - the Sectoral Strategy for the Development of Transport Infrastructure by 2050. Madam Secretary, do you know what shortcut the officials invented? SeStra, that's a good thing to remember. So we have a sestra, that's short for sektorový Strategy, that's no... [[Notes from the O.R.]] Yes, it is the third reading, I would ask the Member not to yell at me. If he's bored, go backstage, and that's it, I'm justifying my amendments. You obviously haven't read the law, so at least listen, if you don't want to hear it, go somewhere else through Mr President. I don't braise on you, either, when you talk, even if I disagree with you. Madam Secretary explained, I responded. So that's a shortcut, my taxes. Modern and simple, especially simple, VAT - simple, 10, 15, 21, curved, unturned, with each other, unbearable, alcoholic, nonalcoholic etc., it is simple - it is as a mockery! But so be it. It's a shortcut. For example, if it were called Jeni, simple and low, I would like it, although it would not sound like My taxes or NIJE, low and simple. As for us, Madam Secretary is really charging me. The Minister is right, we have raised VAT for three years, we have enacted three years, 21 percent, and since then the ANO movement has criticized us for this step. All right, you're supposed to take criticism and take responsibility for your political decisions. But what is hypocrisy in? For the seventh year, the wrong, criminal, unbelievable ODS move could be canceled. Isn't that right? We even said it -- it was a mistake, we admitted it was a mistake, and we suggested we return it. So we introduced VAT at 21 percent for three years, that's right, it was a mistake, I admit. The Minister of Finance and its predecessors, the current Prime Minister and Ivan Pilný, have been applying VAT for five years now and are not going to change it next year. So next year it's going to be six to three, two to one, twice as good at raising VAT as we are. At least we're saying it was a mistake. And we can say the arguments that led us to this. It's none of your business today, but we were supposed to make a living in retirement reform. You canceled it, but you kept your VAT. And yet you have the courage, and I would use a stronger word, but I won't, because the secretary is a lady and has a terrible advantage, so I won't use it, so he has the courage to criticize us for it. What did you do with that horrible VAT increase, Madam Secretary? Nothing! Did you propose to reduce the very high VAT that the ODS imposed? I didn't. You've been proposing to cancel a super gross wage for three years, as you say nicely - just verbally. Just verbally. We offered to help you with that. We're different about how much taxes are supposed to go down. We say 15, you say 19, and you say 1.1 percent, we say 5.1 percent. But we say we're ready to support your proposal. It's not what we want, but a 1.1 tax reduction is better than a zero reduction. And you're still not here with that. You have the votes. We say that when we rule, we'll lower it by the five. You say no, we respect that. We're not saying it's either our way or nothing. But you always come, you smile nicely, you say, "I'm going to promote the abolition of a super-gross wage." You have the votes. Write it down, it's written, bring it here, and we have it not within a year, but within six months we have approved it, and from 1 January 2021 super gross wages can be cancelled. [[15.30 hours]] Mr. Vice Prime Minister, absent, Jan Hamáček even said it was a crime. I didn't understand what a crime could be. Yeah, maybe we could have said more, I wasn't here at the time, but that's okay, we could have said it was 15 of the supergross wage, and that's equivalent to 20.1 of the gross wage tax. That's right. This is about interpretation and both numbers are correct, 20.1 of gross or 15 percent of supergross. But what's criminal about it if you have a tax of 20, 22, 18? This is about a political conflict, especially how high direct taxes are to be. I don't understand. Moreover, the Social Democrats, as their last prime minister - I would like to say, historically the last prime minister, I think I'm right - they also had it in their government program for Bohuslav Sobotka. So in the words of Jan Hamáček, he was a prominent member of social democracy at the time, President of the Chamber of Deputies, the crime was put in Bohuslav Sobotka's own programming statement. Just like the first government of Andrej Babiš, just like the second government of Andrej Babiš. So if you're criticizing us for this, and we accept and acknowledge this criticism, and we don't agree with you, then let's change it together. In those parameters you suggest, Madam Secretary. The offer just stands. The Socialists may not like it, but it's about 20 billion to stick to the Ministry of Finance numbers. Okay, 24. 24 billion is less than 1.5 percent of this year's budget. Each of you in charge of the family budget, corporate, budget of some nonprofit organization, profitable, small, large companies, so you have to confirm that finding a savings of 1.5 percent is not an extremely difficult task. Neither is saving 10, 20, 30 percent. So it's pretty easy to find savings. I told your colleague today in some TV duel that I would find it for you by the end of the week if you wanted, because it's not really 20 percent of the state budget. That's another problem. So let me get this straight. The improvement is not so great, although it is, I have also admitted it to plenary, even to the Committee on Budgets, especially in the electronization, not to say digitalization, it is something else, but in the electronization. Unfortunately, there are at least three factors that are against taxpayers, and that is the reduction in interest and compensation paid by the state in an illegal state administration procedure - that is to be pointed out, in an illegal procedure, I do not know why the State should not pay as feeble as it proceeds illegally. Secondly, those 15 days, that loan of $27 billion, and thirdly, it's the abolition of the tolerance period for filing a confession. I just remember in vain supporting the proposal to move tax returns a month for those who do it electronically, how many comments and dissenting opinions were made by the Ministry of Finance. Time has shown who's right. And I have to appreciate that it's a good thing that you copied it from other sources and that you've often given it, but we're wasting our time, and we can do it straight. So I am convinced that - I am not saying that all, but some of these rejected amendments today will undoubtedly appear in one of the next government amendments, not opposition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u17	I have noted your proposal for repeating second reading, so we will be voting on it before the vote on the amendments, because then, of course, it would be pointless. And now your speech has ripped down two factual points, so Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will speak and then Mr Pavel Juříček will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to respond very briefly to my previous speaker, through you, about the forms. First of all, thank you for your credit for the special EET form, but I have only raised it to the Committee on Budgets. My colleague Kolářík deserves credit, who pointed it out to me, which I don't think you could have guessed. That's one thing. And the second thing, which I wanted to support your argument about the strongness of the fact that the forms and access of the tax administration and the Ministry of Finance are a problem, that from the obligation of the taxpayer, I quote from the EET Act, to submit tax administrators for each calendar quarter a notice of sales registered under a special regime by the Ministry of Finance and Financial Administration, that the registration or the form is to be filled out after days. And in the first version, they suggested that the number of the first and last receipts for the day should be written for each day. That means this led to about 540 items. There could be more. It may be a little less, but unfortunately, the Financial Administration insists on keeping hundreds of items. [[of which:]] I hope that I can reduce the form a little bit, and that the new version after that is already deleted will be somewhat more favorable. But the Financial Administration still insists that it should be after days and that those items should be hundreds. I think it's completely unreasonable. It's one of the reasons we attacked it at the Constitutional Court, because the law, as I quoted from it, doesn't even assume that the paper records are meant to be in one day's time, and yet that's how the Financial Administration officials interpret it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u19	Mr Pavel Juříček, with a factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u20	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes I find it very difficult to bear here when some data is compared, which is completely illogical. So I don't want to talk about the concept as a whole right now, but if 27 or 24 billion hold off for 14 days, then if you take the time value of the money, so 24 divided by 12 is 2 billion, for 14 days, the value of the billion. If these companies borrow at 5% interest, then all companies in the Czech Republic will cost CZK 50 million. So here, 50 million crowns are exchanged for 800 million crowns, which are essentially unsolved for a year, a year and a half. And that's a comparison. So we can't mix cash flow at the same time as the particular cargo that comes to those firms in the Czech Republic. Yes, companies in the Czech Republic will cost about CZK 50 million if they borrow at 5% interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u21	And now I don't have any more factual remarks, requests, so Mr Jan Hrnčíř will speak and Mr Tomáš Martínek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on the tax code. I would like to respond to what has therefore been said here that the tax system naturally brings positive things, such as an advance on the tax budget. However, this amendment responds to the Constitutional Court's position, where excessive deductions are held whole if only a part of the dispute is disputed, which is, of course, positive. Of course, a reduction in interest on late payments if you pay tax later. It is good that you can also change your VAT number if you are a business natural person, that it may no longer be a birth number, but the negatives clearly prevail. We, as the SPD movement, have always been, and will be on the side of decent and honest businessmen, which is why we do not like that the tax system introduces, for example, tax controls in correspondence, without cooperation with a tax entity. We don't think that's entirely right. The bad thing is the removal of the so-called liberating five-day deadline for late filing of tax returns, which I think is the practice that has been here for years, and there's no need to disturb it. It may happen to everyone that there will be a late invoice, that the accountant will call the businessman and have to change something there, and the tax claim will simply be filed later. I don't think that's a problem. We responded with the amendment that we proposed at least a three-day deadline, that is, three working days. At the time of electronic submissions, I think that this is sufficient, but the Committee on Budgets rejected this amendment. [[15.40 hours]] Similarly, there has already been a discussion of the extension of the VAT deduction period from 30 to 45 days in favour of tax entities. I really believe that this is indeed a reason for the optical improvement of state finances to improve the state budget management. And just for the record, at this point, the state budget is running a deficit of roughly 24 billion. crowns, so I think it's supposed to optically improve the cash flow state to make it look better. I'm really there at the time of the electronic submission, the inspection report, where the checks are actually going on computer and de facto online, so I think it's complete nonsense to delay the deadline. Of course, the reduction of interest in the unauthorised conduct of the tax administrator, which is the need for hedging orders and other errors of the Financial Administration, when the State had to pay the interest of 32 percent of the amount withheld, is reduced to 10, which is in turn to the detriment of tax entities so affected. This means that we simply cannot support this amendment to the tax system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u23	Now I'll read the apology. The President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček apologizes from today's meeting at 17:00 and tomorrow's meeting from the whole day of the meeting, for work reasons. So now Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will speak on the point of fact, and Mr Václav Votava will also be prepared for the point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to respond very briefly to my colleague Juříček and his calculation of 50 million. If I'm not mistaken, VAT is paid every month. That means every month the state will hold the money, so you have to multiply it by 12. So it's not $50 million, it's $600 million. I understand it's moving, but you have to borrow the amount.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u25	Mr Václav Votava will now make a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I would also like to respond to Mr Juříček. It doesn't matter if it's $50 million or $600 million. Let's live a little in reality. The big corporations - and I'm not saying anything of course that's not true - will certainly handle it, so if she gets the money, the VAT refund, later. It's worse for a small businessman. And maybe no one's gonna lend it to him. My colleague Juříček here said he was going to lend him interest, and he calculated how much it would cost him, or how much it would cost those companies. But the little businessman doesn't have to get credit either. And it's really crashing his cash flow quite significantly and waiting for every crown. All I'm saying is, what's the reality?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u27	Mr Miroslav Kalousek, Mr Kalousek, for now the final application for the factual application, will be prepared by Mr Tomáš Martínek. Two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u28	Thank you for the floor. In response to what Mr Stanjura and Mr Juříček said. There's no point arguing about the future price of money here, but let's think about whether this extension is really necessary or not. And if, as part of a search operation with the new Rules of Procedure, there is not one single act, it is not necessary, because, if the truth were true, the Minister's arguments would mean that the over-depreciation advances would be paid at the latest on the 45th day. But that's not true! The diction of this law clearly shows that until the 46th day the control activity will be started and that the advance will be fixed in the context of the control activity. So what greater work than the current situation will be added to the Financial Administration as part of the search activity, that it needs 50 per cent extra for it? That is a completely false and odd argument. And if someone is falsely arguing with us, then we should not comply with him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u29	So I will now ask for a speech in Mr Vojtěch Munzar's general debate, because I do not have another application for de facto, and Mr Jan Skopeček will prepare himself. [[Objection from the right that a messenger is logged in to the actual. Martínek.]] Anyone check in? You're checking in with your hand, from where? [[Gesticulation of messengers. Martínka.]] Oh, I'm sorry, so I moved you by mistake. I'm gonna erase Mr. Foreman from the de facto. There you go. I'm sorry. You have your word, Mr. Martínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u30	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased that the proposal already contains a proposal submitted by me to extend the deadline for an electronic tax return by a month, in order to encourage digitalisation, to encourage positive communication of citizens with public administration in electronic form, and should also bring greater comfort to taxpayers and at the same time save State resources. On the other hand, as has already been said, the proposal contains some things that are problematic. Fortunately, we have a lot of amendments here that can improve the entire resulting law and eliminate the shortcomings mentioned by the previous speakers. Personally, I would like to draw attention to some of the amendments that I have tabled, namely the G1 amendment, which should ensure that the VAT number is automatically removed from the VAT number in the newly created tax identification numbers. I would also like to ask for the support of the amendments that I make with Mrs Věra Kovářová, such as amendments C1 and C2. First of all, I think Amendment C2 will fulfil the intention of the petitioners, and it will also meet the taxpayers, so, in particular, with Amendment C2, I would like to ask for your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u31	I'm sorry again, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Vojtěch Munzar will now appear and Mr Jan Skopeček will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary. I have already acted on this proposal for an amendment to the Tax Code and related tax regulations in both first and second readings. And what I am going to say here today, take as an introduction to my amendments and try to convince you that some of them really have meaning and some of the things that the Ministry of Finance is proposing are really a very negative intervention in the business environment. In addition to some of the things on which the professional public agreed, the amendment to the tax code also includes matters that are a shining example of how the state solves its problems at the expense of businessmen, entrepreneurs, tax entities. If you take it, on the one hand, only the court had to push the Ministry of Finance to begin to address the issue of the recovery of irregularly long-deprived money from undisputed parts of tax entities, and yet, following the decision of the Constitutional Court, the Financial Administration did not start to return such retained money at all, even on direct instructions from the Ministry of Finance. The result of this decision is part of this amendment, which should lead to the recovery of these funds. So it's as if they're going to return to one of the entrepreneurs' pockets some of the unwarranted VAT refund funds, but right away with the same amendment from the other pocket, the Financial Administration, the Ministry of Finance, all tax entities, all businesses and businesses will be able to withdraw additional funds, because they will be held back by just over-depreciating VAT for 15 days longer. And so have some of my previous speakers here, and so did Mr. Votava, by your means, that this is a huge hit on the cash flow of all these companies and, in particular, it is a brutal hit on the financial health of those small businesses and small businessmen who do not have sufficient reserves to cover the timeout. So the state has arranged for them, or it wants to set up a free and interest-free source of money. And what will those firms and businessmen do? They're gonna have to borrow the money somewhere. Whether they are in financial institutions or they will prolong, for example, the payment of invoices, but the State must pay the VAT funds immediately. So this measure, which doesn't just affect cash flow, will be subject to more problems. That is why, according to my promise from first reading, I tabled an amendment, which you will find under the designation J3, to return the 30-day deadline instead of the 45-day proposed for the purpose of returning excessive deductions. VAT. I am aware that some of my colleagues also have a similar proposal from other political parties, and I will only be very happy if it does not pass through mine, but will pass through another which leads to the same goal. [[15.50 hours]] In the long run, I blame the government for the fact that, planfully, it is not just this amendment, it is planningly deflecting the scales to the detriment of entrepreneurs and to the benefit of state power. On the one hand, the government is planning to reduce tolerance to entrepreneurs' mistakes, tighten fines and sanctions, on the other hand, increasing the powers of state power, and often closing its eyes to the errors of Financial Administration and Financial Administration officials and the Ministry of Finance, and thus not creating a friendly business environment. On the contrary, the environment does not level up for business, but it is distorting it, and it discourages a lot of entrepreneurs from continuing to pursue their activities, and it discourages young people to come into the business sector and start a business. Such a classic example is another thing that contains an amendment to the tax code, and that is the cancellation of the interest-free period for late payment of tax and the abolition of the five-day tolerance for filing tax returns on income tax and property tax, without any proper justification. These tolerance periods aren't hurting the state today. There is no damage to the state, only by the tolerance periods shows a slightly kinder face. And now the Treasury is coming and wants to disrupt this tolerance. Just like that. The only reason I heard from the ANO movement's representatives on the budget committee was that they didn't understand why the tolerance was, why the state should be tolerant. I would say that the whole policy of the YES movement against active and independent people, entrepreneurs and taxpayers is summarised. I put my mind to the lack of understanding, to let businessmen, entrepreneurs take a little breath, and not always stress something, shorten their deadlines, reduce tolerance, increase controls, and increase fines. And this is a practical consequence of the policy of recent years. But maybe I can be wrong. You can prove it to me, colleagues and colleagues from the ANO movement, that I am wrong. And you can vote positively on my amendments, which are trying to maintain these two tolerances. The amendments are under the designation J2 and J1. Although the Ministry of Finance does not want tolerance to entrepreneurs, to its mistakes, virtually. the errors and errors of the Financial Administration is tolerant and wants to be tolerant sometimes too much and in advance wants to develop and relieve responsibility for the error of the tax determination procedure. By very vague wordings in Section 254, they seek to create as broad a set of cases as possible where they will not have to pay interest on the so-called incorrectly determined tax and thus discharges the set in advance. That's not fair to taxpayers. That is why I have also tabled Amendment J4, which I propose some vague wordings that lead to emptying and developing, releasing and abolishing. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Another thing that is not fair to entrepreneurs, but does not bring it to this amendment to the Tax Code, is that the State does not want to pay interest on an improper tax in cases of so-called divided administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u33	I'm gonna have to ask you to calm down. The MP asked me to set up an order in the O.R. Then I will ask you not to disturb the Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u34	You don't get to meet this term very often - divided and divided by tax administration. But divided administration is actually when one state institution, such as the Customs Administration, measures your tax or fine or penalty, but it is being enforced by another, such as the Financial Administration. And I find it absolutely unbelievable that the state is creating a group of taxpayers who are not entitled to interest just because the state has somehow divided competence internally. This exclusion of this group of taxpayers was carried out by an amendment to the Tax Code in 2017 despite and directly against the decision and case law of the Supreme Administrative Court, which determined that the State should pay interest even in cases of tax cuts. And since the tax entity cannot influence the internal division of the competence of the State in any way, it does not really seem fair to me that interest does not apply to these taxpayers in the case of a split administration. That is why I have put forward, and I must say again, an amendment which cuts the removal of interest in the case of tax administration, respectively. the fact that interest does not apply in the case of divided tax administration. Another amendment - I will skip some because I have ten - concerns the return on property tax. [[Flicks his evidence]] I do not know if you, colleagues, have ever asked yourself that it is very strange that the State has information from the real estate register, has information from the tax return on the real estate acquisition tax, and yet still requires the taxpayer to actively come to the tax office himself and file a tax return on the real estate tax, while on standard cases all the information that the State needs already has. That is why I have prepared an amendment that would lead to a tax payer's choice. If he wanted to file his own tax return, he would have filed it. In the event that he did not want to submit it, the tax would be charged to him by the state authorities according to the information available to the State, without penalty, only by official authority. It's just a choice. But it would seem to me like a very big simplification for all the citizens of our country, so that they don't always have to put the paper on the office with the information that the state already has once. I believe that you will look at this amendment with some understanding, give me the truth and support it. And the last amendment I want to talk about is an increase in the VAT registration limit from the current 1 million to CZK 2 million. We in the House of Deputies in committees are constantly discussing and discussing the administrative burden on entrepreneurs. Even yesterday, as part of the debate on some points, we discussed them. And yet one of the solutions is always under our noses. I believe that everyone, even those who do not want to support my amendment, agrees that, in the case of VAT registration, the time for entrepreneurs to have increased duties with tax administration, tax records, the arrival of a control report and so on is coming. And it is important to note that the current limit of CZK 1 million has not changed in more than 15 years. What has changed is the new obligations that have come to the taxpayers in connection with VAT. And turnovers have also changed because they have increased. As a result of inflation, entrepreneurs, for example, have higher income for inflation in the same job and activity, but also constantly higher costs. But that doesn't mean they make more in the finals. Only more than one million crowns. For example, in construction, one contract is enough, and such a craftsman falls to the VAT limit, and he stays in it, and he's left with all the tax obligations. So if we really want to help reduce red tape, if we don't want businessmen drowning at night in paperwork, if we really want to help them, then please raise this limit. [[16.00 hours]] From the Ministry, we are constantly hearing references to European law here. From my point of view, the Minister tried to play a bit in the car with the fact that he was waiting for the amendment of the directive. But if the true will of the government, the real will of the Chamber of Deputies, I am convinced that we would be able to push for that at European level as well. Once again, I have to repeat the example of Slovenia, which I have said here several times, which has requested an increase in the threshold of 30 July 2012 and 22 January 2013, a Council of Europe decision has been issued to authorise an increase in this limit and a limit for VAT registration. Five months. Five months was enough for Slovenia. And even in that Council decision on Slovenia, it confirmed the possibility for Member States to apply for an increase in the threshold of up to EUR 100,000. And the limit I'm suggesting, CZK 2 million, is going to fit into that 100,000. It really depends only on the willingness and will to help a little businessman and finally increase this limit after 15 years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u35	Now, with Mr Pavel Juříček's factual remark, a single factual point so far. And then Mr Jan Skopeček will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u36	I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, I don't mean to mock anyone, but, of course, when you have time for T1 and you extend it by 15 days, you have time for T2. And to that T2 time, you're always adding up those 30 days. So it's really like you're going to borrow it in quotes for 14 days. But the second thing I have to say is that I find it very difficult to handle the fact that there are arguments from first reading, second reading, third reading, and it's all over again. Well, that seems completely pointless to me. And the third thing I have to say is, unfortunately, my colleagues are a little out of order, because what's bothering businessmen is more of a problem of paying VAT on unpaid invoices. And that's a completely different subject that I didn't want to open up completely here, but I don't think he totally understands business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u37	I, too, thank you and Mr Munzar, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u38	With all due respect to my colleague Juříček through you, it is obvious that he has not listened completely today or in the previous readings. If he'd listened to me strongly, he'd have found out that I was here talking about extending the payment of invoices, but for businessmen, it means that he still has to comply with his tax obligations to the Financial Administration right away. As regards the calculation of the time limits, please, my colleague, please take a look at the real form of the amendment. I think we handled this very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u39	Thank you and now Mr Skopeček in the debate. Before I give him my word, I will introduce you to a note: Mrs Adámková apologises to us between 16.15 and 19.00 because of illness. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u40	Thank you for the floor. Before I begin, through Mr President to my colleague Juříček. Please, don't make us here. My colleague Munzar, I have to defend him, he has done business too, you are not the only entrepreneur in the world who has the right to say what is and what is not right. We're just discussing the material here and you're not the only entrepreneur in the Czech Republic who understands it. Next time, please forgive yourself for this! It really doesn't belong here. The law itself. I'll be very brief not to upset fellow Juříček that we're repeating ourselves. When I think of how many times you've repeated yourself here when you approved of the EET, and the arguments have always been the same, I don't know what you're even accusing us of doing the same thing. But the law is simply not good and does not help the business environment. For me there are three crucial points that will contribute to the complicated business in the Czech Republic. It is, of course, an extension of the time limit for the recovery of excessive deductions. This is something I simply cannot identify with, especially when the law is described by the Minister as a law to contribute to digitization, to simplification, to less paperwork. After all, thanks to this government, we also have a control report that should also have contributed to the fact that VAT will stop cheating. And in the logic of the fact that we have new additional anti-tax fraud instruments, I see no logic whatsoever in the fact that the State extends its deadline to retain excessive deductions. Logic should be completely opposite. As soon as the state has acquired new tools to detect tax fraud, the deadline during which the state has taken possession of money that does not belong to it, but which belongs to entrepreneurs, should be shortened. The extension of the deadline will, of course, intervene in cash flow companies, the most it will feel is small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. It may also happen that, due to their worsening cash flow, they will be paying invoices to other entrepreneurs at later dates, at a later date, and this measure can be driven by the business sector in that negative sense further. When we approved the tax package, we blamed the Minister, and we still blame her that the Czech tax system is one of the most complex in the world. Even an international comparison, such as the World Bank's Doing Business ranking, shows that we are below average in tax matters. That even the order within the simplicity of tax systems, so we are up to 54th place, which overall the average of the conditions for the business and location of the Czech Republic in the ranking together especially with the length of the construction process brings down the ladder before we could be, if we had a tax system in order. And one of the arguments why, in the tax ranking, we are on the 54th place of the tax system, so the criticism from the World Bank is also aimed at the fact that we have too long retention of excessive deductions. And instead of trying to shorten it for us, the government comes up with a law that extends the deadline and makes businessmen, or uses entrepreneurs and their money for the credit they take. Unfortunately, without the businessmen wanting it, of course. The second argument that this is not a law that would help the business environment, that would make life easier for entrepreneurs, is, of course, the abolition of the five-day tolerance period for the impunity of filing a late tax claim, a late tax return - once again a matter of hostile from the state to entrepreneurs, a step hostile to our business sector, which I believe is inconceivable, especially when the state itself fails in its agendas and often individual decisions, individual proceedings are able to implement far beyond the time prescribed by the law or even common sense. At a time when the state would be perfect and fulfilling everything for entrepreneurs, not just entrepreneurs, but citizens in time, there was no delay, so I would understand it, but in this sense it is a thing that I really do not understand why the Ministry of Finance wants to shorten the five-day deadline so symbolically. If he really wants to collect even more on fines so the state budget will swell and swell. And the third point, the main point, which I want to illustrate, is that there is no way that this is a law that would help the business, the business sector, to reduce interest on the part of the state for the unauthorized possession of funds paid to entrepreneurs. Again, I do not understand the insolence of the state when we have recently heard here how many companies have ended on the basis of unauthorized financial orders, how many companies that have not cheated at all, as it turned out later in court, had to end business because of the evil of this state, so I do not understand at all that the state has, after the negative experiences that the business sector has with it, the insolence to reach interest and reduce their amount when it illegally holds money that does not belong to the state but belongs to entrepreneurs, and that money should serve to develop the business. Finally, I will also ask you to support the amendments. I consider it a very good amendment, of course, to leave the deadline for the current 30 days. I very much acknowledge what my colleague Munzar puts forward, namely the displacement of the threshold necessary for VAT registration to 2 million. It is a line that has been the same for several years, regardless of how inflation is growing in the Czech Republic, and I think it should be updated. [[16.10 hours]] I then propose an amendment, one of the amendments, which is intended to allow fines to be forgiven. Just like he can do the tax system today, or the tax system is counting on a penalty to be forgiven, so I'm coming up with this to include fines. So I will ask not only for the support of these proposals, but for the support of proposals from the whole political spectrum, which, unlike what the Minister brings here, is trying to help the business environment in the Czech Republic, and the bad law, the law against entrepreneurs that Minister Schillerová brought here, is trying to get in such a condition that it will not harm entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u41	Thank you, too. And next, Mrs Kovářová is enrolled in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u42	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on the tax rules. Since a number of ideas have already been said here, I will briefly summarize. As I have already mentioned, the tax system deserves one commendation, namely that the Ministry of Finance has used the potential of a tax information box that has existed for a long time, but has served taxpayers only marginally, mostly only to determine the state in tax accounts. And this can, of course, be beneficial for small entrepreneurs who do not have a data box. On the other hand, we see that a number of changes are proposed, which will bring significantly worse conditions for taxpayers compared to the current situation in many respects. For example, let us mention a number of provisions such as the abolition of the tolerance period for tax returns and the payment of taxes, exceptions in which the tax entity is not entitled to interest on the unlawful conduct of the tax administrator, or the cancellation of interest on the unlawful recovery of the tax administrator. As has been said many times, the most serious complaint is the extension of the VAT refund period from 30 to 45 days. It will bring one-off to the state, virtually. to the state budget, CZK 16 billion. And, of course, it can cause problems on the taxpayer's side. It is often said that this regulation is a proclient's regulation, with which we cannot identify, because we think and believe that changes will significantly deteriorate the position of taxpayers and are not necessary at the same time. We will support some amendments, essentially most of the amendments made by colleagues from other clubs. We have decided to table two amendments to which colleagues Ferjenčík joined in one case and in the other Ferjenčík and Mr Martínek. Both of these modifications are pretty simple. This concerns the amendment, which is under C1 and concerns the change in interest on late payments. And Amendment C2, where the point is added - I quote: "In the event that the current outcome of the control finding is communicated in the course of negotiations with the tax entity, the tax entity may waive the right to set a time limit for any observations pursuant to paragraph 1. 2 verbally to the protocol." I think they're pretty good proposals, which is why I would ask you to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u43	Thank you, too. And now I have already signed up here in the debate or recorded in Mr Martínek's debate, but I believe that he has already spoken, so that is all at the moment. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in the plaintiff's final words. It is. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u44	Well, thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, while I have attended, of course, all readings in the Chamber of Deputies, but also all the meetings of the Committee on Budgets, and I have patiently provided the documentation, I have provided the analyses, I have answered all the questions, so I am prepared, in particular, for the fundamental arguments that have been raised here, to respond again from this plenary. First of all, I would take the liberty of having such a short reaction to President Stanjura. We were clear on the budget committee, so I'm gonna try again. It is simply not possible, it is not possible to lay down rights and obligations only by decree. Please, I'm a lawyer, plus I've been in the Government Legislative Council for seven years on the Financial Law Commission. It's just not possible. I have explained this a hundred times, I do not know what analysis the President has, but it is clearly an amendment by President Vostrá. It's just that we're in a time emergency. I will always defend and favour - and I said so in my introductory words today, I said so also on the Committee on Budgets - the classic whole legislative process with everything, but here we are in a time emergency. If the Constitutional Court has ordered us to make a correction by the end of 2020, the only way we have an open tax system is through this amendment. And I would like to emphasise, and this is a legal debate, not a political one, that the Constitutional Court stated in the finding that a set of data in the required forms must be laid down by law. Further specified, if applicable, under legal law. So please read the amendment! There we give the legal framework and at the same time the authorisation to issue the decree, which will, of course, follow. But the decree must be issued in accordance with the authority which is in the law and on the basis of legal constraints. So I'm just saying, it's just that it's okay. And this is the only possible way. I am, of course, not pleased that we have to deal with this through the amendment, and I am glad that the Member, President Vostrá, has put it. It was prepared by the Treasury. We've never kept that a secret, and because we're in a time emergency. That's all that matters. To correct what the Constitutional Court is accusing us of. So this is more fundamental to me, and that is what in this case is about delaying it and failing to comply with the deadline laid down by the Constitutional Court. So let's see. We've been talking here, it's been said a couple of times that the liberating deadline is canceled. I was explaining on the budget committee, you have calculations, you have a table that, although the five-day suspension period for the late payment of taxes is being abolished, either interest or a fine, but the amount that is decisive for the calculation of this penalty is increasing, from CZK 200 to CZK 1,000, and I have already supported the budget committee and I will support it again today - Mr Onderka's amendment, where he is raising it from CZK 200 to CZK 1,000. [[There's noise in the room.]] I'll give you an example of interest. And I said that on the budget committee. If someone gets a $10,000 tax, the penalty will only be paid after 370 days to raise a decisive amount. He came again, got 370.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u45	Madam Secretary, I will allow myself to interrupt you and ask the House for more peace. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u46	When the tax is CZK 50,000, it gets 74 days when it will not be paid. If he gets 100 grand, he gets 37 days. If he gets $5 million, he gets zero. But that doesn't bother us, does it? That's what we said on the budget committee. I'm having a constant debate here, and I'm running it on the budget and on all the tax packages, on the subject of raising, reducing taxes. We'll keep it, it'll definitely happen again every other amendment to tax laws. I'm just reminding you that six years from now, taxes will be reduced by 130 billion. That's important. And I'm not going to be developing this debate right now. There. [[16.20 hours]] In conclusion, I kept President Kalousek that it was the least correct performance, so I will respond correctly. I'm not gonna use any strong terms, I'm gonna use the facts. Chairman Kalousek here has accused me of lying. That's a strong expression. You understand that I have to respond to this kind of message anyway. I'm lying when I say that the Financial Administration needs 15 days longer to investigate the part so that it can return the so-called undisputed portion of the excess deduction. A classic example, today we have a 30-day deadline, it is one of the shortest times in the European Union, I have mentioned Germany in the budget committee, which is constantly given to me as a model, there is six months from the measurement. President Kalousek - I understand that he has not been Minister of Finance for several years, so he stayed with the legislation that was in force at the time he was Minister, but he did not read, and that is essential, the new regulation that is in this tax code is Section 174a, specifically paragraph 1. 3, where it is clearly stated that the advance, the undisputed part, cannot be returned before it is verified. I've sent you a detailed section where I've explained day by day why the extra 15 days are necessary. And I showed you this graph. I'll show you again, it's just a small version of me today. And I told you, before we put in place a control report, which was effective from 1 January 2016, so the volume of deductions withheld was 5 to 7 billion a year. That was money missing from the payers, the businessmen. After the introduction, three years after the introduction of the inspection report, the amount withheld was 800 million sometime in the autumn of 2019 and we want to go even lower. Yes, it won't be a zero. It'll never be zero, there'll always be some suspicious transactions. Today you have an excessive deduction applied, which the tax administrator has doubts about, and will hold it for a year. They're gonna start a control or a complaint procedure, and it's just-- a procedure of position of doubt, I'm sorry -- and it's a year. All he wants to do here is check out the undisputed part, give him back, like, 500,000 200,000, and hold back what he has doubts about. I'm really fascinated by the fact that he's accusing me of lying to the former finance minister who didn't care about carousel scams blooming in billions like mushrooms after rain. In 2013, before the ANO movement took over the Ministry of Finance, so VAT Gap, that means a hole in the VAT that was supposed to be there, but it just wasn't, because it was, I dare say, stolen, so it was, according to the European Commission's figures, 19.3%. At the end of 2017, I'm taking the European Commission's numbers again because she's doing it with a two-year delay, so I don't have any fresher data, just a year, and something after the inspection report, it was 12.4 and I believe when the next numbers come, it's going to be a lower number. It didn't bother the Minister at the time that, during his time, companies that boasted that they were trading with a dépéháček, who - mostly it was at the border - simply carried out fraudulent transactions that cost the state budget billions in his era. That's when we, when our Minister for the YES movement, Prime Minister Babiš today, by introducing the inspection reports, were liquidated after three years. The Supreme Prosecutor stated this in his final report, the NCOS report stated it and the SAO stated it. So please don't blame me for lying here. What did you do for it? Nothing at all! It just bloomed for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u47	Thank you. President Kalousek, then President Stanjura, applied with priority rights. President Kalousek applied during the speech. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u48	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, I'm sorry I'm acting with priority rights. The Minister decided not to speak until after the end of the debate, so unfortunately only those with priority rights can respond. I've been approached. I want to respond, of course. First of all, the carousel business bothered us all. What anyone has done for it, we could talk somewhere else and also argue about what we choose because of the growth of the economy, what thanks to active measures, but back to the tax system. Madam Secretary, I'm sorry, but in your own words, what you just said here, you just confirmed my argument that there is no reason to prolong the search period, because there isn't one more operation. You said very well - and I agree with you - that the over-count deposit can only be refunded if it is properly checked. I agree with you on that, too. And that background check will start after the search deadline is over. This will begin with a control activity or a procedure for eliminating doubts. I've read the sections very closely. I don't have legal education, but the tax code we're amending here is from my workshop. So I'm gonna say it again. At that first stage, the financial authority shall decide whether to submit or not to submit a tax return to the control activity. In some 95 percent of the cases, it decides not to submit to control activities, and it pays off the excessive deduction. I agree with you that the inspection report has been very helpful. That's for sure. Then comes the control section, where either doubts are removed or checked, or is targeted, or punished, and within the control activity it is still being checked how much the advance will return. That means the argument that you're stating is that this has to prolong the search activity, it's only going to take place after the search activity. There is simply a deception that you are deceiving the Chamber of Deputies - so I will not tell a lie, I will tell a lie, but it is simply not true - which you are deceiving the Chamber of Deputies, the public and everyone. I just don't know if you're knowingly doing this, or if you've been fooled by your own Financial Administration, but according to this new bill of law, within the search activity you want to extend by 50 percent, that Financial Administration won't do it for extra performance. If you were right and not me - I'll shut up and you'll advise her in the meantime, Mr. Faltýnek... If you were right and not me, it would be obvious that the advance that will not be checked will be paid on day 45. If that were the case, it would be set up as part of the search and the 45th day the deposit paid off and the rest checked out, I'd apologize and hit you three times facing the exit. But it's not like that. The advance will not start until the 46th day and beyond. There's no deadline. That means, now you have 30, you want 45, you don't have one extra operation that you're going to do within that search period. You'll do the same. The new thing that the law brings, the backups, you're gonna do it after the search deadline, but you want the search deadline to be 50 percent longer. There's the lie! I will demonstrate on all the provisions in the proposal you put forward. There's no doubt about it. If you want to convince me that I'm wrong, please state here that the advances will be paid on the 45th day after the tax returns have been filed. Then I'll apologize and hit you three times on the ground. But since you can't say it, it's not like that, you're lying, Madam Secretary. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u49	Thank you. President Stanjura has withdrawn his application. In that case, we can continue with the rapporteur's final word if she is interested. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. In that case, there has been a proposal to repeat the second reading, which we should now vote on. I'll call my colleagues to the O.R. There's an application for check-out, so I'll check you out and we'll wait until we get the number of log-ins. [[It is waiting for the Members to come to the Chamber.]] [[16.30 hours]] For those who are now coming into the hall, I will repeat that we will first vote to return the proposal to second reading or repeat the second reading.... Looks like everyone's already here, the number of applicants still hasn't settled... Colleagues are still coming. We will be the first to vote on the repetition of the second reading... The number of entries still hasn't stabilized... Perhaps. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of repeating second reading. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 263, 176 Members and Members were enrolled, for 78, against 92. The motion was not accepted. I now ask the rapporteur to guide us through the draft procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u50	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the draft procedure, as agreed by the Committee on Budgets. We voted on the first proposal. We would now move on to the groups, as the amendments rank. We would start with group number one, which are amendments containing changes to the tax rules by starting with letter A, which is from the budget committee's resolution. By adopting A, they become further unvoting I and J1. We'd continue with G2, K2, J11, C2, G1. The adoption of the G1 becomes an unvoting J6. If G1 had not been adopted, we would have voted on J6, E1. The adoption of E1 becomes further unvoting F, H1, J3 and J12. If the E1 had not been adopted, we would have voted on F. By adopting F, they become further unvoting H1, J3 and J12. If it had not been adopted, we would have voted on H1. The vote can only be taken here if it has not been adopted by E1 or F and by adopting H1 they become further unvoting J3 and J12. J3 would only vote if one of the proposals E1, F or H1 had not been adopted. Receiving J3 becomes unvoting J12. J12 would only vote if one of the proposals E1, F, H1 or J3 had not been adopted. Then we would vote on Amendment L1. The voting proposal under letter J1 would be unvoting both in the event of adoption of A and not accepting A, because the proposals are identical. Furthermore, we would vote on the amendment under point I, which can only be voted on if A was not adopted. Amendment B, Amendment C1. The adoption of C1 becomes unvoting J2, so J2 would only vote if C1 was not adopted. Furthermore, we would vote under D1. The adoption of D1 becomes an unvoting D2. D2 would have voted only if D1 had not been adopted. Furthermore, we would vote H2, H3. The adoption of H3 becomes unvoting J5. We would also vote on J4, J7, H4. The adoption of H4 becomes an unvoting E2. And E2 would therefore only vote if H4 had not been adopted. J5 would have voted if H3 had not been adopted. Then we'd continue with the L3. We would go to the second group of amendments, which are proposals containing an amendment to the Real Estate Tax Act. Here is one amendment under the letter J9. We would go to the third group of amendments containing amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, where we have Amendment J8 and J10. Finally, we would vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u51	Thank you. So it was a procedure proposal. I will ask if the procedure was understandable to everyone, or if they have any amendments to the procedure. If that is not the case, we will vote on the procedure. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposed procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 264, 178 Members and Members are enrolled, for 176, against 1. The motion was accepted. Mrs Šlechtová to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u52	Hello, Mr President. I would like to report that I accidentally voted in favour of vote 263 yes, it should have been no. There's a yes on the tape, I voted no. I'm not questioning the vote, it's just for the tapestry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u53	Thank you. I think the procedure has been approved, and we can proceed according to it. I therefore ask for the introduction of individual proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u54	We will now begin the vote on the amendment under A. It is the amendment of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Ferjenčík, and concerns the re-establishing of a tolerance period for which no penalty is imposed for late claims of the tax. I just point out that if this amendment were accepted, there would no longer be a vote on the amendment under points I and J1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u55	Thank you. I ask for the committee's opinion. [[It recommends the opinion of the Committee.]] And the ministry's position. [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 265, 180 Members and Members are enrolled, for 90, against 78. The motion was not accepted. Voting control - Mr Ferjenčík. Please, if there's anything to vote on or not. Mr. Mr. Kováčik. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. It happens twice in 20 years at most. I voted in favour. I have a cross on high. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u57	Yeah, okay. So that is an objection to the vote that we are going to vote on. Initiating vote on objection. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 266, 179 Members and Members are registered, for 175, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will repeat the vote. I'm picking up an application for check-out, if I'm not mistaken. So I'll check you out. Please sign up again with your cards and we will repeat the vote, it was the first vote on proposal A... until the number of entries has settled, which I hope has already happened. [[16.40 hours]] Initiating re-vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 267, 180 Members and Members are enrolled, for 92, against 72. The motion was accepted. I'll wait to see if there's a review again. Please, President Chvojka is conducting a vote check. Mr. Foldyna, then, to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u58	I'm sorry, it's my first time in years. I've abstained, and I've got a vote in favor of high school, so I'm questioning the vote. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u59	Okay, that's an objection to the vote that we're going to vote on again. Initiating vote on objection. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against the objection? In the vote number 268, 179 Members and Members are registered, for 176, against no one. So we have once again accepted the objection, we will repeat the vote on proposal A again. The check-out request is? Once again, there's an application for a check-out, and I'm going to check you all out again, and I'm asking you to come forward again. We will therefore repeat the vote on proposal A. The number of applicants has become stable for us. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 269, 180 Members and Members are registered, for 91, against 73. The motion was accepted. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Please calm down in the hall, and if no one else reports for the vote, then we can proceed. I ask the rapporteur for another proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u60	So we will now vote on the amendment under the letter G2, Mr Martínek, Michálek, and this concerns breaking tax confidentiality towards all law enforcement authorities in the event of information to be published. The opinion of the Committee on Budgets - not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u61	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the 270 vote, 180 Members and Members are enrolled for 29, against 105. This proposal was rejected. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u62	The next proposal is the amendment under letter K, Mrs Vostrá, to amend the forms in the light of the Constitutional Court's finding. The opinion of the Committee on Budgets is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u63	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 271 is 180, for 116, against 36. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u64	The next proposal is the letter L2, Mr Skopeček, the failure to submit includes an amendment to the Value Added Tax Act. The opinion of the Committee on Budgets - not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u65	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I've started voting number 272 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 272, 180 Members and Members are registered, for 65, against 98. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u66	The next proposal is the letter J11, Mr Stanjura, opening tax control. The opinion of the Committee on Budgets - not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u67	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I started voting number 273. I said, who's in? Who's against it? The number 273 votes include 180 Members and Members of Parliament, 78 against 96. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u68	The next proposal is letter C2, Mrs Kovářová, the communication of the results of the inspection finding. The opinion of the Committee on Budgets - not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u69	Thank you. The Ministry? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. I started voting number 274. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the number 274 vote, 181 Members and Members voted in favour of 79, against 94. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u70	The next proposal is the letter G1, Mr Martínek. This relates to the allocation of VAT independently of the tax entity's birth number. I would like to point out that if this amendment is adopted, we will no longer vote on the amendment under letter J. The opinion of the Committee on Budgets - does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u71	Thank you. The Ministry? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. I started voting number 275. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 275 votes shall include 181 Members and Members, for 63, against 96. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u72	Since this proposal has been rejected, we will now vote on Amendment J6.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u73	Thank you. Opinion of the Committee, or what is the proposal? [[The Committee does not recommend it.]] I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I started voting number 276. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 276, 183 Members and Members are registered, for 65, against 98. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u74	The next proposal is the letter E1, which is Mr Ferjenčík, the abolition of the extension of the period following which the tax is to be fixed. I would like to point out that if this amendment E1 is adopted, we will no longer vote on the amendment under letter F and the amendment under letter H1, J3 and J12. Opinion of the Committee - not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u75	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 277, 183 Members and Members are enrolled, for 82, against 96. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u76	Since this proposal has been rejected, we will vote on the amendment under letter F, and the Committee on Budgets here also does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u77	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 78. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 278, 183 Members and Members are registered, for 82, against 95. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u78	The next vote will be on Amendment H1, which we will vote on because the E1 or F was not adopted. The Committee on Budgets does not recommend this again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u79	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 279. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 279 votes shall include 183 Members and Members, for 80, against 96. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u80	We will now vote on Amendment J3, which is adopted to become unvoting J12. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u81	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 280, 183 Members and Members are registered, for 80, against 98. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u82	We will now vote on Amendment J12. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u83	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 281 votes have 183 Members and Members, for 80, against 95. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u84	We will now vote on Amendment E1, which is Mr Skopeček, and here it concerns the withdrawal of the objection as an appeal against the decision. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u85	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I started voting number 282. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 282, 183 Members and Members are enrolled, for 63, against 97. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u86	Other amendments J1 and I are unvoteable because an amendment under letter A has been adopted, so we will vote on the amendment under letter B, which is Mr Onderka, which is an increase in the minimum limit on the existence of a fine for the late claim of the tax from CZK 500 to CZK 1,000. The Committee on Budgets recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u87	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I started voting number 283. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the 83 vote, 183 Members and Members are registered, for 181, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u88	The next proposal is the letter C1 by Mrs Kovářová. This is the re-establishing of a tolerance period during which no interest on late payments arises. I just point out that if this proposal is adopted, we will no longer be voting on the amendment under letter J2. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u89	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I started voting number 284. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 284 vote includes 183 Members and Members, for 79, against 91. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u90	Since this proposal has been rejected, we will now vote on Amendment J2, which is Mr Munzar, it also concerns the re-establishing of a tolerance period for which interest on late payments does not arise. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u91	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I started voting number 285. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 285, 182 Members and Members are registered, for 80, against 95. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u92	We will now vote on Mr Kolářík's amendment D1. This concerns the ceiling of interest on late payments. If this proposal passes, we will not vote on D2. The opinion of the Committee on Budgets - not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u93	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I've begun voting number 286. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 183 Members and Members registered in the 286 vote, for 79, against 93. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u94	Another proposal - in this case we will vote on D2, which is again Mr Kolářík. This applies again to the ceiling of interest on late payments, this time for individuals. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u95	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 287 votes 183 Members and Members, for 79, against 91. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u96	The next amendment is under the letter H2 of Mr Bartošek and Mr Juránek. This concerns an increase in the interest on the refundable overpayment. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u97	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I started voting number 288. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 288 shall be registered in the vote of 183 Members and Members, for 78, against 97. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u98	The next proposal is the letter H3, which is Mr Bartošek and Mr Juránek. It's a newly introduced interest on an undue recovery. I just point out that if this amendment is adopted, then we will no longer vote on the amendment under the letter J5. The opinion of the Committee on Budgets - not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u99	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote No 289, 183 Members and Members are enrolled, for 79, against 97. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u100	The next proposal is under the letter J4, Mr Munzar. This is a cancellation of the reasons for which no interest on the incorrect determination of the tax is due to the unlawful conduct of the tax entity. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u101	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I started voting number 290. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the 290 vote, 183 Members and Members are enrolled, for 79, against 97. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u102	The next proposal is under the letter J7 of Mr Munzar. This is the introduction of interest on the incorrectly determined tax on the part of the administration. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u103	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 291 votes have 183 Members and Members, 63, 93. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u104	The next proposal is under the letter H4 of Mr Bartošek and Mr Juránek and concerns the increase in interest on the tax wrongly determined and the special amount of interest on reinsurance orders. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u105	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 292 vote includes 183 Members and Members of Parliament, for 79, against 91. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u106	Since this proposal has failed, we will vote on the amendment under E2. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u107	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 293 votes 183 Members and Members, for 80, against 95. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u108	The next vote will be on the amendment under the letter J5 of Mr Munzar, the introduction of interest on unlawful recovery. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u109	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 294 votes 183 Members and Members, for 79, against 97. The motion was denied. And another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u110	The next amendment is under the heading L3, Mr Skopeček, and concerns the remission of the penalty for late claims of the tax. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u111	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 295 votes 183 Members and Members, 78 against 96. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u112	The next proposal is the amendment to Mr Munzar's letter J9 and concerns the registration of real estate tax. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u113	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 296 vote includes 183 Members and Members, for 80, against 94. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u114	The next amendment is under the letter J8 of Mr Munzar and concerns VAT. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u115	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I started voting number 297. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 297 votes shall include 183 Members and Members, for 80, against 94. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u116	The next amendment is under the letter J10 of Mr Munzar and concerns the inspection report. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u117	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 183 Members and Members in the vote No 298, for 80, against 94. The motion was denied. Thank you. And that was all the amendments, according to my remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u118	Yes, it was the last amendment. Now we will only vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u119	President Kalousek claims priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u120	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly with the opinion of the TOP 09 MEP. We have a final vote on a legal standard for which a lot of good professional work has been done and which would, for the most part, actually benefit the business environment and simplify - if. If there were not a few major mines, the negative impact of which outweighs the negative effect of the improvement in the business environment. I am very sorry, because we would love to vote for 80 percent of this proposal, but we simply cannot vote for the proposals that have been discussed here. It has been proven above all doubt in the discussion that the arguments of the Ministry of Finance are false and odd that it is actually something else. Yet you have decided to support this as you will support it, in a form that will make the business environment worse, which will continue to open scissors in the quality of business for large capital groups, on the one hand, which can easily cope with it, and small entrepreneurs on the other, for which it will be extremely difficult. It's your choice, it's a bad decision, and we have to vote against it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-014-220.u121	Thank you. So all the proposals have been voted on and we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 280/2009 Coll., Tax Code, as amended, and other related laws, according to the House's Press 580, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I'm opening the vote number 299. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 299 votes have 183 Members and Members, for 104, against 56. The proposal was therefore accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. That is all that has been waiting for us for this press, so I thank the appellant, thank the rapporteur, and I am done discussing this point at this time. And next up, there's a point.
