ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-006-032.u1	32. Government bill amending Act No. 253/2008 Coll., on certain measures against the legalization of proceeds from crime and terrorist financing, as amended, and other related laws, laws related to the adoption of the Act on the Registration of Real Owners and Act No. 186/2016 Coll., on Gambling, as amended /house print 909/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-006-032.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce to you the bill amending Act No. 253/2008 Coll., on certain measures against the legalization of proceeds from crime and related laws and the Act on the registration of beneficial owners, the Act on gambling. The aim of this law is, in particular, to modernise and harmonise legislation in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing in line with international standards in this area, which will contribute to combating, in particular, economic crime and preventing current terrorist threats. The proposed bill is thus primarily a proposal for transposition. In particular, it transcends the so-called 5. AML directive. Part of the transposition of this directive is also carried out by a draft law on the registration of beneficial owners, the promoter of which is the Ministry of Justice, and it is also included in the agenda of this meeting. Furthermore, the sub-sections of so-called 4. AML guidelines. At present, in relation to the two AML directives, the infringement procedures referred to in Article 260 (2) are being carried out. Three, in case of five. The AML Directive due to the expiry of non-compliance with the transposition deadline, and a very rapid procedure can be expected from the Commission in these proceedings on the basis of the action plan to combat money laundering and terrorist financing of May this year. In view of the Commission's uncompromising approach in this area, there is a real threat of imposing financial sanctions on the Czech Republic in the near future, and it is therefore necessary to discuss the proposal as soon as possible. In addition to the transposition of the directives, the draft law also handles the transnational evaluation of the Committee of Experts for the evaluation of measures against money laundering and terrorist financing, the so-called Moneyval, on the implementation of international standards in the fight against money laundering, terrorist financing and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, which took place in 2018. In connection with the transposition of the above directives and the evaluation of Moneyval, the draft law also addresses requirements arising from the needs of practice, particularly in the area of combating money laundering, terrorist financing and gambling. The draft law thus, in particular, comprehensively revises the issue of combating the legalisation of proceeds from crime and the financing of terrorism and amends a total of 20 laws to this end. In the field of gambling, the most important changes in the refinement of the legislation of the register of natural persons excluded from participation in gambling and reporting in gambling or changes in the competences of the authorities of the state administration and the scope of the field of gambling are the most important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-006-032.u3	I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Jan Volný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-006-032.u4	Thank you. Colleagues, my colleague, Mr President, House Press 909, the amendment to the Act on certain measures against the legalisation of proceeds from crime, is mainly transpositional material. The government has submitted this material to the Chamber of Deputies 23. 6. 2020. On that same day, the bill was sent to Members by the Chamber of Deputies under number 909/0. I guess that's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-006-032.u5	I am opening a general debate in which I do not have a Member. However, Mr Ivan Bartoš has applied here for a factual one. It was probably a mistake, not even present. So let's erase the speaker. And no one, then, when I look around the room, if anyone's reporting for a general debate, I don't see anyone. So I'm ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Madam Secretary, the rapporteur? You're not interested. So we will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. I'll go on in the meantime. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? [[No one's checking in.]] So we will proceed to the vote. Who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 23, 155 Members registered, for 135, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. That is why I will ask if anyone has a motion on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion. I don't see a suggestion, so I'm ending the first reading of this press. Now I'll read two apologies. Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková apologizes from 19 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons, and Mrs Věra Kovářová apologises today from 18.50 to the end of the day. That's how Mr. Kasal signed up for the facts, but now it's not factual, I think I pushed you there. So now we're going to go to the next point and this is the point
