ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-003-030.u1	30. Government Bill on Foreign Investment Verification and Amendment to Related Acts (Law on Foreign Investment Verification) /German Press 834/ - First Reading I will ask Mr Pavel Juříček to take his place at the rapporteur's table, and I will also ask the Prime Minister, the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, to present the proposal on behalf of the Government. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-003-030.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me present at first reading the proposal for a long-awaited government law on the verification of foreign investment, which we have prepared within the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I would like to pierce its topicality just these days, or in these weeks, especially with regard to the health industry, research and everything associated with it, because it is undoubtedly in these sectors at a time of unfavourable economic development that important Czech companies, companies, can also become the subject of predatory buying into problematic investors, investors who are involved in the occupation or acquisition of at least influence within critical infrastructure, or strategic infrastructure, or infrastructure that is extremely important for the operation of key domestic companies. These risks are also highlighted within the European Commission, which is why specific foreign investment mechanisms are being established. And that's what this law is about. The Czech Republic has long been a very open and attractive environment for foreign investors. I'd only take one slip here. The Czech Republic was declared among the ten most interesting investment territories in the world a few weeks ago. Only three countries from the European Union, or today from Europe, are in the framework of the TOP 10. It is Great Britain, it is Poland and it is the Czech Republic. Singapore comes first. In view of the stability of the business environment, tax predictability, security, investment attractiveness, the Czech Republic is among the ten most interesting countries in the area of potential investment. It was announced by a very prestigious CEO of Magazine. That is all the more important to address this issue and not only to monitor potential foreign investment in advance, but also to influence it to some extent, if investors could pose a certain security risk. It is clear that the motivation of certain investments, which originate mainly outside the European Union, may not only be the creation of economic profit and commercial benefit. These investments can also serve as a tool for promoting certain policy objectives and may not always be in line with our national interests. That is why I consider it most desirable that the Czech Republic should be included - and it is important to say, this is not the law that we have invented - by now roughly half of the Member States of the European Union, which have this national verification mechanism, and its existence will allow the state to enter into potentially risky transactions, with some advance. The security threats will at least be eliminated by setting certain conditions to be met by a foreign investor or, in some extreme cases, by limiting the risk of investment. And for problem-free investors, which, from our point of view, are the vast majority that we do not want to burden with additional administration, a so-called accelerated consultation regime will be available. So the bill that has been tabled to you, honourable Members, is to serve as a guarantee - nothing more, nothing less - to make foreign investments, so that the strategic security interests of the Czech Republic are not threatened. At the same time, it will ensure the openness of the investment environment, and we will become more immature countries. Let us therefore conclude by saying that this law will also implement the regulation of the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-003-030.u3	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. Now, the rapporteur, Pavel Juříček, who is the rapporteur for first reading. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-003-030.u4	Yes, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just here to fill in some of the Minister's words. It should be said that the European Commission Regulation has already entered into force on 10 April 2019 and is effective on 11 October 2020. So I am very glad that through the Organizing Committee we have managed to make sure that this law can be put into the next one at first reading today, because, on the one hand, we have time from the European Commission, which I think is not the most important thing. The greatest substance of this is what the Minister here said, that in the period, let us say, the crisis may be significantly greater activity by individual investors, especially in the area of some strategic issues that the Republic no doubt needs to protect. I would just like to stress that the mechanism for investigating foreign investment...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-003-030.u5	I understand you, Mr rapporteur, and I will ask the House for peace. So this time, you better take it from right to left, because there's a noise bigger than left to right. Please, rapporteur, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-003-030.u6	Thank you. The mechanism for investigating foreign investment will have three basic points. Monitoring of potentially risky capital flows flowing to the Czech Republic, second screening of suspicious transactions and thirdly any restrictions on those that will be assessed as risky. It's going to have two modes. One scheme is actually preventive under Section 7, which means that foreign investors who want to invest in these areas will need permission from the State for the transaction itself. That's what the minister was talking about. And the second level of the regime is that all other investments that are capable of endangering state security or internal or public order - which is that Section 8 - will be possible without prior authorisation, but within five years of their completion it will be able to return to these transactions and verify them. So two regimes, which gives the logic to both protection and security and the general public as such. So I'd be done with it. I just want to point out that the law is very clear and intelligible. I could probably only remember three things. Investment as an institute, as a word, is a rather narrow term, because it is understood in the content of the law in a broader context. There is, of course, an accented cooperation with the European Union, because some steps will have to be taken by the government in some way to cooperate with the European Union. And the third thing is that the standard could mean some small corrupt potential, given that those strategic investors always have their own mechanisms and their own actions. But I believe our government is struggling with that. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-003-030.u7	Thank you, rapporteur, and I am opening a general debate for which I have no application. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. Yes, I see Mr. Jan Bauer's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-003-030.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, let me ask you a quick question. I think I have a sense of interesting laws, and that is why, even though this proposal for the implementation of the European regulation or the European Council regulation has about 130 pages, I took the job of reading at least the essentials. And since I've been doing things in Europe for a long time, I'm trying to transform it into understandable Czech. Basically, checking foreign investment is not currently regulated by the Czech rule of law, we do not have a precise definition of it anywhere. And because, as even the Minister of Industry said, this is a serious problem not only at the moment, so Europe's heads have come together because it probably requires a European solution, and they have adopted a so-called directive or regulation, the European Parliament, the European Council - so here I have noted the number 452 - which basically sets the framework for examining those foreign direct investments throughout the European Union. The rapporteur and the Minister spoke about how the mechanism will work in the Czech Republic. They'll just be monitored, they can use all sorts of consults. I would also like to point out that it will be necessary if we even have these people, to hire a small number of people at the level of individual ministries, biscuits, but also other facilities. And, of course, it's directly related to it, it's going to cost a lot of money. I estimate it in the tens of millions of crowns. You can also read from the explanatory memorandum - it is on some page 24, 25 - that approximately 300 transactions are likely to be checked on the territory of our country, if I have correctly estimated, of which perhaps ten or fifteen may be the more serious ones. This brings me to the heart of what I wanted to say. [[16.10 hours]] If this law is adopted - and now I admit it because it is a regulation that if we wanted to complain, we wouldn't want to accept it, so now it's too late, because we had time for that three years ago, now all we have to do is translate and implement. But if this bill is adopted, it can basically have two effects. Firstly, it can limit the activities of many foreign companies to invest in the Czech Republic, because they will evaluate that they can be classified as risky by the Czech state, why not. On the other hand, it can significantly motivate many other foreign companies, where this project will also be implemented to simply consider the Czech Republic a security or not a security risk, a country where the problems are solved. I wanted to ask, because even at the level of the Economic Committee we have very often miserable experience with this - in quotation marks - pure implementation and pure transposition, whether - and it cannot be read from the 130 pages - whether by chance either wanted or inadvertently officials at the relevant ministries either translated purely, or into some parameters, I will, of course, still look at it, because it will be the subject of discussion on the Economic Committee, if we did not accidentally add any more, which is very often the case when we translate the directives or regulations into our legislation. So that's more of an incentive for the Minister. I don't know if this is the answer now, immediately, but I already feel that in some parts of this law we may be able to go beyond the obligation to transpose into the Czech legal system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-003-030.u9	I thank Mr Jan Bauer. Who else? Yes, Mr Lipavský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-003-030.u10	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, dear colleagues. I am very pleased that the Chamber of Deputies deals with this law, the Government's proposal for a law on foreign investment verification, because it is also one of the priority standards for our party. It is actually a government proposal that we very much welcome and support. We have also been active in discussing this proposal at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies as soon as possible. This topic has been in the air for several years, a number of expert seminars and debates have been held here in the House. And it is actually absolutely essential that the Czech government, which in some way carries out foreign and security policy and also has responsibility for it, should have in its hands an instrument in which it can also carry out this security policy in the field of business. And it is not that the government should now go and start to control everything, to look at everything, but there are some key sectors, key sectors, critical infrastructure, it is an army sector that is absolutely essential for the existence and functioning of the state. So this is where the standard goes, and if we look at different examples in the world, those cases of robbing know-how or acquiring control in strategic enterprises by foreign actors are present here. And the Czech Republic is actually defenseless about it today. So we are very happy about this, for this standard, and we look forward to discussing it in committees, where perhaps there will be some amendments, but we would probably be completely ahead of ourselves. In any case, on our part, the opposition has a great thank-you to the government for moving it to Parliament. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-003-030.u11	Thank you. I ask who else in the general debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? The rapporteur? It's not like that. We will continue, therefore, because there has not been any motion for repayment or rejection of the proposal, and we will deal with the proposal on the commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest ordering another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We'll decide on the number fifteen vote. I will first engage and call my colleagues and colleagues to the House. I repeat that in vote number 15, we will vote on the commandment of this press to the committee of economics as a committee of guarantee. I've started voting number 15 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 15 of the present 177 for 125, against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees or committees to discuss? It's not like that. I can therefore say that this proposal has been given to the Economic Committee as a guarantee, and I can end the first reading of this press. We're going to continue this by discussing the 910 press. It's about
