ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, before we begin this 75th meeting, I would like to remind you that the 77th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies with one item will be opened at 14.30. And now I'm launching 75, welcome to all of you. I'll check you all out, ask you to sign up with your ID cards, or report to me who votes with the spare card. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 49 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on 3 December of this year. Before we approach the verifiers, I would just like to say that today is December 10th and our colleague Tomáš Hanzel and colleague Karel Schwarzenberg have their birthday. I can't see either of them, but congratulations to both of them. [[Let's hear it.]] I therefore propose that we designate Mr Jan Čižinský and Mr Tomáš Vymazal the verifier of this meeting. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. You can change your mind for a while, because we're still waiting to fill the deal. [[Gong.]] I'll read the apologies. Of course, the agreement between Members' Club Chairs is that those Members who are not present or in writing excused are deemed to be excused under the agreement of the Presidents of all Members' Clubs, we are sitting in half the format. The members of the government apologize: Jan Blatný - working reasons, Jana Maláčová - working reasons, Lubomír Metnar - working reasons, Tomáš Petříček - health reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Miroslav Toman - working reasons. There. We will wait a little longer, because there are still other Members coming into the hall. I remind you once again that we will vote first on the persons of the verifiers. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the vote. I'm asking who's for the proposed verifiers. Who's against it? Voting number one, registered 73, for 70, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies of the 75th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Jan Čižinský and Mr Tomáš Vymazal. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 75th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. I'm opening the vote, asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 2, we are 75, for 65, against 1. The motion was accepted. I'm stating that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. And now I'm opening a point number.
