ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u1	380. Compensation for the reduction of the tax revenue of municipalities and regions due to the loss of the compensatory bonus I ask that Mr Ondřej Veselý take the floor on this point, who will either become rapporteur or propose someone to become rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank you for the inclusion of this point, thank you for all the municipalities and regions. As far as my own issues are concerned, I have already described it at the moment I proposed a point, yet I will briefly repeat it. The whole problem is that the following point, which means a compensatory bonus, serves to help entrepreneurs in this difficult time. As it was returned to the Senate, it would not, in my opinion, allow us to vote on the Senate version to pay compensation to the CFI, which would be a problem. On the other hand, I agree with the view that it is not fair for the payment of the compensatory bonus to be burdened with municipalities, cities and regions to be deprived of the funds under the budgetary determination of taxes. So we're filing a motion, or we're filing a motion, and I hope we can find a match to compensate for that loss. I presume and confirm that I will vote precisely for the parliamentary version on that next point, precisely so that we can continue to support, compensate for the activities of the CFI. I am not going to read the resolution at this point, because I am assuming some debate, and we are going to try to find a consensus so that this resolution is acceptable to the entire House. I will just add to the suggestions that everyone, not only the state, but also the municipalities and regions, had to participate in the losses, so we all know, or those of us who work in the communal that municipalities and regions, of course, are involved in the losses, and they are already losing outs or within the RUD, in the framework of the tax outage, part of their tax revenues. [[Nesroz.]] And the second problem that is here, of course, is that or the question that is here, of course, is that a number of municipalities and regions themselves support entrepreneurs or other persons precisely because of a revenue loss within, say, the coronation. That means so much for me a brief word. As far as the rapporteur's proposal is concerned, I suggest that Mr Tomáš Martínek become rapporteur, because this was our joint proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. In this case, it is reasonable for us to approve the rapporteur's proposal by voting. The proposal was made for Mr Tomáš Martínek to become rapporteur on this point. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 28, 188 Members registered, in favour of 155, against no one. Mr Martínek has been approved by the rapporteur and I ask him to take his role. I am initiating a general debate. President Farský is in favour of the debate, then President Jurečka and then Members who have signed up in writing with priority rights. President Farský has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u4	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate that we were supposed to have at paragraph five is obviously going to be held at this point, and I will allow you to outline one point of view that has not always been fully visible in this debate. What's going on? In short, the point is that we all wish it was necessary to help those affected by the coronation that we do not want to let the little eserócka, the small entrepreneur, fall. We really know that their financial resources have dried up, and we need to put money there. The government has also launched this program, following the opposition's insistence, after commenting. But then it became quite clear that, while it was saying out loud how the government would support and indebt the Czech Republic by 300 billion, it would take from the budgets of municipalities and regions that the municipalities and regions had enough money to save in the past years, in other words, that they managed well. That what all macro-economists say when they grow, when the economy grows, you have to save, you have to prepare for not always being as good as it is now, and so they have prepared the money, prepared it to co-finance the projects, prepared it for a moment when the budget revenues are not so high. They saved their money. Unfortunately, the government didn't act like that, it didn't save money, and the moment the money went missing, it said: municipalities, regions, you've got enough, share, contribute too. It doesn't make sense anymore. We'll say to the good man, it won't pay you back, because next time we'll see that your finances are because you didn't spend as much as you could, so we'll take them away from you. Well, that's a bad thing to do. This will lead anyone who wants to be responsible for their budget next time, to their community, but even to the state, precisely to spend money, to be in debt, and then to say, eventually they will help me anyway, and at least they will have nothing to take from me. There is a law on the budgetary determination of taxes, which sends a part of the taxes collected to the municipalities. Many years ago - many, eight years ago - we approved an increase in the share in the House so that the funds would be available for the necessary projects in the municipalities and regions. What seemed to me to be the most important moment, and to this day I see it as the most important moment, was not so much money, up to so many millions that touched, and the pavements and kindergartens and playgrounds were being repaired. To me, it was freedom. Freedom to think about their own priorities when municipalities have a guaranteed share in the state economy every year, tax collection, so it allows them to plan, it allows them to think about their own priorities, it allows them to discuss all investment with citizens, it allows them to do quality architectural competitions, it allows them to compete well and then to build well. That's a huge difference with subsidies. Why do I mention subsidies? Because at the moment the municipalities and the regions came forward and said it was wrong that their finances are not to be taken from them at the moment, because they support the local economy, they also stabilize the work in the regions, so the government came up with the fact that, although 12, 14, 16, billion will take away from the municipalities and the regions, but on the other hand, it will essentially give them the same amount on subsidies. That's total economic nonsense. That's just bullshit squared. Because subsidies are incredibly inefficient money. It is one thing that they deprive the self-government of freedom to decide what is important for their region, but they are also extremely expensive in how they work. I was mayor myself for eight years. Of course, we would not have achieved such a development of the community of Semily, if we had managed only with our own resources, we would have wanted subsidies. But the experience with subsidies is truly trivial. You're designing something you don't know if you're gonna get the money for, and the quality of the project is often consistent with that. Because no one wants to put millions in projects in a drawer. So you're preparing a project to get a grant. If you succeed in getting a grant, you must quickly compete with the supplier and you must quickly conclude a contract for the work and then quickly implement it. The situation is like this, and the difference between the money itself and the subsidies is really in their value and their effectiveness in the tens of percent. Since you are planning such a subsidy, you do not have much time to involve citizens in discussing with you the investment that is needed for that territory. It is also very difficult to get an architectural competition, a good result, for the public finances that we can get. And once you've concluded a work contract, you've become a hostage in your own way to a firm that knows that you have to settle the grant at some point, you have to finish the construction, and if you don't, you'll lose your grant, and you'll get a big penalty. The relationship between the investor and the supplier is extremely unbalanced. All these steps are already reducing the value of the subsidy money compared to the money that municipalities have from the share of taxes. In projects, in the quality of projects, with the involvement of citizens, in architects, but also in the public contract itself and in the competition. I think the value of the money that goes through the subsidies is easily priced to be 20 to 30 percent lower than when the money comes and can be planned. What else is important is that these subsidies need to be administered. Someone is declaring these subsidies, creating conditions, these conditions are more complicated and more complicated, filling out more and more paper because it's an attempt to have everything completely safe, then it turns out that the more words there are in those conditions, the more gaps between those words and the more possible leaks and bending the rules. Someone's been holding it in the archives for many years, checking to see if you accidentally put the brick in the opposite direction than you should have. Of course, this administration will eat up a huge part of the money. So to say that on the one hand, we're going to take the money they have from their budget tax determination, and on the other hand, we're going to replace it with subsidies, it just doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense in terms of investment, and it doesn't make sense in terms of money efficiency. Moreover, it cannot be overlooked that if public budgets are in crisis and the state has to borrow, it borrows on better terms, at less interest than self-government. And so to say, state, I'm gonna pull money from the municipalities to borrow it when he borrows for a better percentage than the municipalities, that doesn't make any sense. And these are all moments that are purely rationally opposed to the proposal to withdraw municipal revenues for a compensatory bonus. [[16.10 hours]] And it is not that municipalities and regions are out of budget and pretending that they are not affected by the crisis. Of course it concerns them. It concerns them enormously because they manage shared taxes. When the economy goes up, the government's revenue goes up, when the economy goes down like it does now, the government's revenue goes down. Even now, without the municipalities sending money for a compensation bonus, they're already down by 35 percent in income. They cope with the fact that they have to cut basically all investments that are not under contracts or, where appropriate, not financed by subsidies. These are moments that, from a purely rational point of view, but also from an economic point of view, simply go against transferring this burden to municipalities. She will also carry the burden of the crisis, and the municipalities as important investors and regions, important investors of the territory, will have to cut off their expenses, so that the crisis that can be saved today by adding money /huge money to the economy is obvious, we will dissolve and spread out into the Czech Republic, and especially today in weak regions, after we send them this Danish donation, the municipalities will be even weaker. Regional inequality will grow among those who have already been disadvantaged and those who have been rich. And we're gonna write off some territories in the Republic. There will be no road repairs, no investments in schools, no kindergartens, no investments in the construction of infrastructure for citizens, no reason for citizens to live there, and we will only deepen what is already a huge problem of the Czech Republic, regional inequality. There are regions where it is very difficult to get work, live, make a living, achieve quality education, and regions that do not solve the problem at all. Self-government and especially municipalities are the most effective public investors thanks to how close they are to their citizens. What's the matter with them when they're dealing with finance? Municipalities can simply make every crown of value, they can spread finance among local public procurement entrepreneurs, among businessmen, and thus support economic growth from the bottom. At this point, downloading funds from the county and municipalities is like shooting yourself in the leg. We will only stop the already complex economic situation in the Czech Republic and only hurt the regions. And please don't do that. We borrow 300 billion crowns. It's not enough. So why pull money from the municipalities and destroy the regions? Thank you for thinking about this proposal and for perhaps joining your voice in the Senate proposal that has come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u5	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Petr Beitl is registered. It's not logged in, okay, it's a mistake. The speech of President Marian Jurečka with priority rights will follow. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u6	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, colleagues, yes, it is that a large part of the debate will take place on this point, which relates directly to the Senate return of the compensatory bonus. And I have to say for KDU-ČSL that we voted to help the tradesmen, small s. r. o., those who deserve help because of the impact of the coronavirus, and the government measures that we supported here as KDU-ČSL, but already during the previous discussion in the Chamber of Deputies, there was a change from KDU-ČSL by Mr Honza Bartošek, who pointed out that it was necessary to take these funds directly from the state budget, i.e. transferred into practical speech mainly from the chapter of the General Treasury or the Government Budget Reserve, when we Members increased the state budget deficit twice, first to 200 and then to 100 billion. Crowns. The fact that there was only such a light mention in the explanatory memorandum that it would have an impact on public budgets, I consider it not entirely fair access to material preparation, because when we say in general that it has an impact on public budgets, we can also talk about universities, universities, we can also talk about other areas other than budgets of cities, municipalities and regions. We need to realise that already the municipalities, cities and regions are involved in this situation in solidarity, they already have a lower tax income recorded today. Much of the municipalities and cities had direct extra costs with the solution of the coronavirus measures. They are the founders of various facilities that provide different types of health and social services, and already the expenditure is estimated at more than 2 billion. Crowns. And here we are talking about the fact that municipalities, cities and regions should contribute about 14 billion to the compensation bonus. Crowns. I don't know about you, but I'm also a representative of the Olomouc Region. We are a region struggling to finance expenditure on the roads of the second and third classes in order to finance the quality of secondary vocational education, social services. And I could continue with a list of things that have a direct impact on the quality of life in our region, where people don't live very easily. We are a region that is at the third and fourth place of different correlation tables from the end, whether it be average earnings, whether it be GDP, etc. And we are to take more money from this region, the cities and municipalities in it. I cannot agree with this because it is also necessary to transform the impact into concrete impacts. In the last two weeks, I've had dozens of stories from mayors who tell me that they've already discussed in the councils, which investments will eventually stop, which will not be realized this year. These are investments that may be long awaited by the municipalities, such as investments in capacity building, such as homes with care service, or investments that are directly linked to the infrastructure of the municipality, the waterworks, in the dry weather of the so often mentioned topic. It is necessary for the state to be aware that, if the municipalities stop these projects, this will, of course, be logically reflected in the drawing of European funds. What the Minister described in that letter she sent to the mayors last week described was that it would replace it with a massive increase in grant titles, it simply would not solve, for example, the co-financing of projects already approved by municipalities and cities, and now they might want to start implementing the construction season. From the grant title provided by some ministry, you're not gonna cover the amount you're supposed to give to co-finance. If mayors are to behave with the care of proper farmers, then the answer can't be "go borrow the money" because they have to step on the brake now and deal with the blackouts they already have in their budgets. And then there's a need for a government coalition to tell people that about 14 billion. in terms of jobs equals roughly 10 000. jobs in regions. Who does contracts for cities, municipalities and regions? They are mainly businessmen, small and medium-sized local companies. These are not multinational companies that issue dividends and pay capital abroad. So even this very unpleasant impact of the measure can have on the ordinary lives of citizens, although those citizens often do not see how the budgetary tax determination works and how the financing of municipalities works. I would very much like to make it clear here today in this very important debate that either we are adopting a Senate proposal or there is another solution that can cover it. On the other hand, it must be said that what is proposed in the Senate proposal clearly states how to resolve the situation. I'm sorry the Prime Minister isn't here right now because he needs to comment on the situation. As Prime Minister, he assured the mayor, the chieftains at the beginning of this entire coronavirus crisis that the measures that the government would implement would not touch the budgets of cities and municipalities, will not touch revenue. That's what he said in person. So it would be good for him to stand up to what he said, as a man, and say what he meant and what reality it is today and how we can solve the problem for the cities and communities that are being created here. I would very much like, as Members, to adopt a Senate proposal in the next item, which solves the problem and clearly states that these funds are being taken from the deficit approved by the Chamber of Deputies here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u7	Thank you. Mr Marek the Výborný, Mr Adamec will be prepared. Let me introduce you to an apology. Minister Miroslav Toman apologizes for today's meeting for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u8	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice Prime Minister, Government, colleagues, colleagues, I would like to join the debate that is going on here. I think it's pretty clear what her subject is here. For several weeks now, the mayors have been calling on us, the MPs, but also the chieftains, asking us not to accept this version, which the government has come up with. I think it would be worthwhile to quote some of the arguments here and ask perhaps some of the Members present, because they are here among us mayors, there are among us also candidates for the governor, etc. And I think that the appeals we receive go all the way across the Chamber of Deputies. To begin with, and this must be pointed out, it is very incorrect when anyone here, whoever puts the whole problem in a position, that someone here, whether they are mayors, regions, or anyone else, or some Members, is fighting against tradesmen or small eseróčky. It's very unfair, it's not. We - and now I feel that the vast majority of us - have been pointing out here for two months that we need to help these small entrepreneurs, businessmen, little eseróks. And it was all of us who supported unanimously the compensatory bonus and other measures to help them. But what is very unfortunate is how the compensation bonus is designed by the government. I would like to quote or paraphrase the letter and resolution of the Prague 10 district, Mrs. Mayor Chmelová Chmelová and Councillor for Finance docent. The Transylvanian, because I think that's exactly where they stabbed out what's going on and what the government should take into account. The existing system - and I would like to quote from this public letter - of the existing system of fiscal relations between state and self-government in the Czech Republic is set up in accordance with the current theory and good practice of Western countries by means of the central government's stabilization and redistribution function through the state budget, and by providing public services, i.e. the allocation function, according to the nature of these services, the central government shares with self-government. - We all know that. - Decentralization of local public services makes it possible to better adapt these services to local needs. But so-called. The compensation bonus is a measure aimed at minimizing the social impact of the emergency situation on businessmen, i.e. the function of redistribution, and reducing its impact on the economy, or stability function. And as such, it is entirely within the competence of the central government, including funding. However, the combination of the existing system of financing self-government through shared taxes and the design of a compensatory bonus as a refund on income from dependent activities caused the substantial costs of this measure to be borne by the self-government. In addition to the fact that the letter sent by the Minister to the authorities is a mistake, because it is actually 34 percent, not 32.5 percent, the issue of the promised subsidy programmes is essential. I think that we are in a situation here today that we will either support the Senate version, as the Senate returns it to us and proposes a solution to prevent a compensatory bonus from going into the budgets and budget revenues of municipalities, cities and regions, or, as Mr Stanjura has said, I already suspect that the Minister here will now speak out and clearly say no to general things or general promises on subsidy programmes for municipalities and regions - and I want to believe that Mr Veselý's proposal does not point to any general resolution that the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to deal with it - but from here it must be said that the Minister guarantees that the government - whether it will be by the end of this week or by the end of next week, I think it is one - will decide, and that is important, about a subsidy programme that will compensate all the municipalities' tax revenues lost on the basis of the calculation of the compensatory bonus as it is in the law. It's the only way. So once again - it is a non-purpose entitlement subsidy for all municipalities and regions, the total amount of which will be the same as the total amount of the compensation bonus paid, and the key for its distribution between individual municipalities will be the same as the key for the distribution of the income tax on natural persons from dependent activities. That's the only way to guarantee it'll be done quickly. That is the only way to guarantee that there will be no preference for one or the other. It's the only way we're not gonna multiply another bureaucracy for mayors who don't know what they should be doing sooner. Those are the only two options. If, on this point, a general resolution such as that we are calling on the government is adopted here, it really doesn't make any sense, and it's just some sort of side way, or alibis maybe social democracy, communists, or I don't know who to support the Senate's return, and that's me and KDU-ČSL clearly, we clearly reject it. And let me say this because I really see it here as a merged debate on this point and then point number 5 of this meeting, so let me ask you some specific questions. I received a letter from the mayor of Chrudimi this morning. My colleague David Kasal, I don't see him anywhere here, he's the mayor of this town, the mayor of Chrudimi is František Pilný, he's the mayor of the ANO movement. And this mayor for the ANO movement has clearly committed us as Members by a resolution he supported, by a resolution of the council convened by the Council, calling for a compensatory bonus not to be paid at the expense of the budgets of municipalities, cities and regions. That - and that is what all the mayors agree - is completely illogical. The government has rightly called here and calls for us not to slow down, strangle investment in the current crisis. Every mayor, however, will have to consider what the municipality, the city will really be able to provide and what it will not. Of course, the village must take care of its contribution organizations first, schools, kindergartens must work, waste collection etc. Well, then it's just going to be fixed by half a kilometer, kilometer, three kilometers less pavements, just stopping those investments that would help make what even the Vice Prime Minister often mentions, that we need to pump up the economy, that we need to invest, because these jobs are very often carried out by local companies, local businessmen, local s. r. o. It's one closed circle. On the contrary, we should encourage that the level of investment in individual municipalities should be maintained. And it's not just the town of Chrudim. It is the statutory city of Pardubice, once again with the Mayor of the ANO movement, where the Council adopted a very similar resolution calling for us to support the Senate version and prevent the compensatory bonus from being paid from the budgets of the authorities. I could also be quite specific in the case of other municipalities of the Pardubice Region, where I come from, where it is quite precisely calculated, that considering that the prediction of 11 percent of the Ministry of Finance is very optimistic that probably the decline - and with that already the municipalities and the cities are working with today, they have very serious estimates - that the decline will move to 20 percent, it actually does several million crowns for medium-sized municipalities, which will, of course, be multiplied by about plus another 5% if the municipalities were affected by participating in the co-financing of the compensatory bonus. [[16.30 hours]] So I would like to call once again for all these things to be taken into account. In the end, you can see that there is really no political game here. Members of social democracy received a letter, which is public, I could quote here, from the Governor of the Pardubice Region, who is Martin Netolický - Social Democrat - who, together with the representation of the entire Pardubice Region, clearly writes and points out what was said here that the government by the mouth of both the Prime Minister and the Vice Prime Minister still guaranteed in April that there will be no prejudice to the budgetary determination of taxes, and at this moment something quite opposite is happening here. Thus, the local policies of the ANO movement and social democracy point out that we should choose solutions that do not compromise investment by regions and municipalities that do not go to the detriment of the economy and the development of regions. I would very much like to ask that either of the Vice Prime Minister - and I call her to do this - here we have a clear commitment that the government will pay the funds to municipalities in a very simple way, simply send the money to the regions, municipalities and cities next week, and then we are able to support the Government's version of the Compensation Bonus Act, or then support the Senate version as the Senate returns it to us, and it proposes a solution that is very elegant and also feasible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u9	Thank you. Mr Ivan Adamec will now appear, Mr Gazdík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u10	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, I would also like to comment on the compensation for reducing the tax revenue of municipalities and regions. I confess that I have been through a lot in municipal policy and I experienced a crisis in 2008. But the crisis was different. At the time, income simply fell out in general because taxes were not collected and, of course, both the state and the municipalities lost the taxes and had to deal with it. Everyone tried, everybody did it somehow. And the crisis is over today, today we have lived in economic growth until recently. I say that's a nice thing to do, because taxes go, and I say that taxes go in spite of any government that always tries to slow down a little bit, no matter what it says. I don't want to discuss this anymore. By the way, two years ago, I warned my representatives that the economic crisis would come, that it would not be possible to just be in growth for so long, that it was the rule of law that had to come, and it happened so, only it happened to such an extent that it was unprecedented, because this one of us really couldn't wait to see what would happen. And I think that it is necessary to look at it with a cool head, what is happening now and will happen, because the argument that the municipalities are doing well and that they are doing well and that it is actually not going to hurt them and that they will be involved in resolving this crisis, at this time economic, is not valid, because if the municipalities are doing well, then, of course, the revenue of the state is also increasing. The question is, of course, how the state behaves in spending, but I don't want to judge that here at the moment. So this argument is completely odd. And I have to say, the last time we approved the bonuses for this group of our fellow citizens, entrepreneurs, businessmen, we actually approved it in the form of shared taxes, that's what we have to say. And as it turns out, unfortunately, I wasn't here because I was in the other crew who had distance from the House, so we're playing with fire. Of course, it went through here once, I think it's gonna go through a second time, and we'll see what happens next. Well, I have one thing to say. In my opinion, the risk that we will stop paying compensation to entrepreneurs by approving the Senate version of the proposal is so enormous that I would not go into this risk even if we did not agree on these compensations here. I say that quite frankly. Here I completely agree with the Minister, because I think it is not that simple and that this path that has been chosen, in terms of speed, in terms of problemlessness, has been spoken correctly from the point of view of the clean process, but from the outset we should have said how we will be involved - municipalities, regions and possibly the state. That's what I'm talking about. That doesn't sound like it. And now we have the consequences that we have to deal with. As far as the idea of changing the budgetary determination of taxes is concerned, I warn against it. Every opening of the tax-based bill is the opening of Pandořina's locker. We know that. And the problem is, there's a lot of people interested in change who think they're gonna do better, and then there's a lot of disappointment that they don't, and a lot of people angry about losing money. Let's face it, because there's only one pickup, it's one tax, it's just not gonna get any more in that state. That's what needs to be said. And on the other hand, even here, if we take it as a sum, it's going to pay all the taxpayers, so let it be the taxes that belong to the communal, let it be the taxes that belong to the state. [[The Minister for Regional Development is speaking with the Minister for Finance.]] I'd like the secretary to stay out of it. I must say that we are now in a situation where mayors are watching with concern the development of RUD taxes. I just pulled it out in the case of my city, and I have to say, it's not pleasant, and the three major taxes that the economy of cities is actually based on, I would name it here, and I'd say the slumps that are actually now April, and we're four months old, and I'd say those numbers aren't really very low, and we should really think about how we're going to solve this situation. Contrary to the state, they cannot be indebted as they wish, no House will approve them, no council at all, there is a great fight, and when the municipality is in debt more, it reduces its rating, its availability of credit, the availability of subsidies from the European Union and all the negative phenomena that are around it, including the fact that it destabilizes the political system in a given municipality or city. So I have to say, once again, that the municipalities have had beautiful incomes over the last few years, it is true, and it also needs to be said that B - they also had higher spending, because when companies are doing well, of course inflation, some prices for services and the like are increasing significantly, so the difference that is then between traffic and investment money is de facto almost always the same. But again, to tell the truth, it's been going well for the last few years, there's obviously more of these investments in the community, and that's good. As far as I am concerned about the subsidies - and now I am referring to the right subsidies. Let us not say what was said here by fellow Member Výborný, that it would actually be a non-purpose grant, to which everyone is entitled, then it is not a subsidy, that is a contribution, so let us be clear about it exactly. The subsidy, I say, and my late friend, colleague Kubera, said it is a dirty word. But we have learned to live with them, because Europe and the European Union - the redistribution of money is more or less directly dependent on the subsidy system, and we all know who we are working with the subsidy money, that the subsidy money is very expensive and very dangerous, because those cases where municipalities, regions or the private sector had to pay back the subsidies and all the costs of the money, and in the end everyone was glad that they did not end up in prison, because harming the European Union in the context of grant fraud, even unintentionally, is actually a crime. And yet the subsidies have one unpleasant feature - their redemption, their acquisition is a terribly long process in terms of time, and an expensive process. In the end, we all know how many companies feed on it, that they get a grant, that they manage, that they give a guarantee for it, and that's all the costs that are in the money. So if we wanted to compensate for this amount, it would definitely not be the same amount that would have been paid by the contribution that has already been mentioned here. So I think that we should really use the subsidies very modestly, and in this case, we should resolve the matter differently. Moreover, subsidies have one more unpleasant feature - if they are not entitled, they are corrupt. And I don't mean someone's gonna bribe someone or raise money for getting a grant, but that's social corruption, clientelism, just acquaintances and all that. And you can cover it up with all the different commissions you want, but basically, the subsidies are set up like this, and there's nothing you can do about it. [[16.40 hours]] Well, I'll tell you the slumps. The tax on the income from the dependent activity of a natural person, that's exactly what we're talking about, that the state is taking it for the compensation, so that's the tax that, in our case, in Trutnov City, amounts to about CZK 100 million a year, that's the share of 23.58. This is the second highest tax, virtually. the second highest yield. Another tax, of course, is the tax on legal persons moving just below this threshold. And then it's a value-added tax, which is one that's about that in terms of the amount of money. And now it looks like we're actually in the fourth month, there's a drop of 5.3 million out of the 100 I'm talking about, I'll find it - right away, I've got it on two papers - now there's a CZK 5.5 million down on corporation income tax, but there are various deferred payments from the point of view of the state and entrepreneurs, so there's some way to settle it. [[Flicks]] And the last significant tax, VAT, is the fall of 1.5 million out of the total amount of about 215 million crowns. And we're in April, please. So if we're talking here that it's gonna cause problems for small municipalities, it's gonna cause problems for all municipalities. All the municipalities. I think that if the number of declines develops even less positively, then in many cases it will not just be investments, and this year it will also be the operation of organisations. [[unintelligible]] It's just reality. That means it's a serious problem. But on the other hand, I have to say, we can't estimate some taxes right now. Such catastrophic scenarios... I'd be optimistic, because maybe the VAT or the corporate tax, so let's talk about it sometime in August, early September, what it looks like, 'cause those payments are gonna run out. So I just wanted to say that we played with fire as part of the fact that we wanted to be positive, that we wanted to be quick because we actually opened one of those shared taxes. And now we're gonna talk about who, what, how the state of the community and the county agree on what conditions. I would ask if it was really meant, if it was more of a contribution, because saying that it should be mainly for investments, it's also a very tricky term. And if we don't make a decision here in the House and see how we decide further, if we approve, then actually the problem is here, and it's against what we expected, the blackouts as a result of the economic crisis that came here in the health crisis, and I think it's gonna go deeper in the fall and the winter months, which I don't want to scare here, but I'm a little worried. So let's try to work this out another way. That money would still be spent by the communities according to their best knowledge and conscience. If we hadn't made this decision, it would have belonged to the municipalities. We made a different decision. Now we're supposed to confirm it, or we're supposed to approve the Senate version. And I'm gonna say it out loud. At the beginning of the coronal crisis, we gave local businessmen, entrepreneurs a lot of relief. It cost us about 5 million crowns. And I think what we're going to do to them now is stop them from paying the compensation bonus just because we don't agree on compensation with the village here, that sounds incredible to me. Unbelievable. I think there's nothing left for us but to approve a government proposal as it has passed here once before in the House, and let's really keep having a serious conversation about how we're gonna compensate the municipalities, because if we don't do it and do it with subsidies, it's gonna be wrong, it's gonna be slow, and they're not gonna get it all. And the consequences will eventually come and fall on all of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u11	Thank you. Mr David Kasal, then Mr Václav Votava, will first respond with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I must respond to the words of the previous speaker, Mr. Výborný, by means of you. I'd like to adjust here, or virtually. Fix what he said here. I'd like to say yes, there's a letter, but the mayor didn't send it. There was a council yesterday. The city council did not approve this letter and approved it by the council. So you can't say here that it's kind of Mr. Mayor's decision, member of the YES. It wasn't like that at all. So please, if you're using any information, just check how it was. And it was said, I made it clear to the council yesterday that I did not like the way the Union of Cities and Municipalities came forward. A number of its representatives voted five times in favour of this. And instead of calling up negotiations and suggesting how to compensate, the hanging of flags and the parquet seems very far over the line.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u13	Thank you. Mr Václav Votava and then Mr Marek Výborný with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u14	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, fellow Members, I can sign what Mr Adamec said. Only on one condition. I don't consider the subsidy a dirty word, because a number of small municipalities wouldn't make a lot of investments without a subsidy, my colleague, I'm sure. There is a difference between a large village and a small village. Indeed, a community with a budget of 3 million needs to do a $10 million sewerage, so it will be hard to put its tax revenues together. What I agree with you on is what you mentioned about the Senate's return. Let's keep paying the bonus as it is for businessmen and small businesses. Anyway, let's compensate. It is necessary to compensate for what the municipalities and regions lose or lose on their tax revenues. That's true. This will also be the content of our resolution, which will be presented by Mr Veselý. Maybe I'll just get back to the subsidies real quick. Madam Secretary says the municipalities will receive massive subsidies. Okay. But losing tax revenue is a big deal. And, of course, subsidies are for someone we're going to talk to, not everyone can reach. And now that I have the floor, I would like to fundamentally reject that view, and I have done so in the last term, that municipalities have a lot on their accounts and that they no longer need any money. This was always an argument when we discussed the budgetary determination of taxes. It's stupid. The municipality saves mostly on investment, saves on subsidy shares, saves on co-financing. But he's not sitting on the money. No way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u15	Sorry, time. Thank you. Other factual points follow. Mr Marek Výborný, then Mr Adamec, President Rakušan, Mr Birke. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u16	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry, I have to respond, and we're not going to discuss this any further, to a colleague of David Kasal. The letter came on the letterhead. The mayor of Chrudimi, which is mentioned, on behalf of the town of Chrudim, I would like to ask you to support this proposal by the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, because our city cannot bear this significant impact on our budget even in the savings that we are already making. The first signature, because then there are the signatures of the three deputy mayors of Chrudimi, is engineer František Pilný, mayor of the city. So it's traceable. Maybe the letter went to multiple mayors. If you look at social media, if you look at social media, Mr. Colleague, Mr. Pilný has been talking about it for days, maybe 14 days, which is, of course, traceable. I understand it's not entirely pleasant, because he's your colleague, but he is. And what I would like to say clearly - go with the mayors not only of small but also of large municipalities to ask. They've been saving years to build sewers, build them. They spent years saving up to build a nursing home, a senior home. And now say about "you're saved, so put it here, because we need it, because we have to deal with it together," that's really, really, really unfair, any similar argument.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u17	Thank you. Mr Ivan Adamec - factual comment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u18	Thank you, Mr President, only my colleague Votava. Of course, I said that as an exaggeration because I said the reasons why I said that was a dirty word. Whether some municipalities without subsidies are unable to invest or even operate, that is a different question, that is to think about whether the municipalities have economic justification at all. But that's a different discussion, I don't want to get into it, so that's just the way it is. So just to clarify, just so we're clear. And I'm saying again, that's how the system is set up. But on the other hand, I want to say that how many times European subsidies have better parameters than Czech ones, that is something to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u19	Thank you. President Vít Rakušan with a factual remark, then Mr Birke. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Only through you for a short time to Mr Votav's colleague. Well, of course, as mayor of the 30 thousandth city, I've experienced the administration of subsidies, and it's clear that it's easier for us in that city than it is for small towns. And, of course, I realize that small communities depend on subsidies many times. On the other hand, that's not what we're talking about right now. We are talking about whether to leave money in their budgets to municipalities of all sizes, including small municipalities, and then those municipalities will be free to decide in what and without any deformations of the subsidy title they will invest in, or we will then create some subsidy titles that are extremely administratively demanding. And for those small villages much more demanding than for cities and regions, which have to create some of their apparatuses. So, on the contrary, I think that for small communities at this point, the promise that some fat grant titles are coming is not tempting. For those small municipalities, it is much more tempting that money will simply remain in their budgets and that they will be free to determine within some and often long-term financial balance sheets where the money will be invested. And, of course, the grant titles will have some chapters, and they will only lead to these governments taking on the freedom to invest money, because those grant titles will always be targeted in some way in particular. That's why we say: let's leave the money to the cities and municipalities at this point, and let's not go against each other - which is also happening here - cities, municipalities versus entrepreneurs as some enemies. I would like to add that this is not just about cities and municipalities. Nine out of 14 regions in the Czech Republic also opposes it to the detriment of cities, municipalities and regions in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u21	Thank you. Mr Jan Birke, Mr David Kasal will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u22	Thank you so much for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm just trying to respond. Everyone is right, and everyone is absolutely sure to defend their region and their city, and everyone has some experience. I could talk here about the experience of a medium-sized or, say, a larger city. And I won't tire you of it because it's about 6,000 stories, because every city has different parameters, different character, different debt, etc., etc. And, of course, often those local politicians, not by their own fault, are in a very difficult situation, because they simply inherited an indebted city. And I confess, especially for cities that are smaller in nature, those ones, if you want, the smallest cities, so if they have some high debt, it can to some extent be very complicated for them. On the other hand, I have to say that what scares me a little bit about this little bit, I agree with my previous speaker here - through you - Ivan Adamec, also a fellow mayor, that we have a big slump here today. It's 37 percent in my city. That's a pretty serious thing, that's a lot, because legal or natural persons zero, now, as far as aliquota is concerned, VAT is deferred, so very low, and natural persons, sorry, legal persons, there is a slump in those 37 percent. That kind of freaks me out. So that puts us in a situation where there's no cash flow, which, to some extent, doesn't destabilize the city at all. It's just that we're based on the fact that in a year or seven years we've had a big boom, we've had a lot of income, and whoever could have had the opportunity, as they say, to store and, in some way, to make sure of it, he's insured, and he's got no problem today. The city I represent doesn't have a problem with that. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. I'm sorry, time.]] But again, it's 6,000 different stories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u23	Thank you. Mr David Kasal, Mr Stanislav Blaha will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u24	Thank you for the floor. Just a short reaction. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Excellent by your means, that at least he set it right. Yes, it was on behalf of the city which adopted the resolution. And if the mayor and two mayors are there, it's clear that it's for the city's leadership and it's not for the mayor. So I'm glad you set it right yourself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u25	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Blaha, President Bartošek will be prepared, also a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I feel the need to intervene in the debate on whether or not municipalities should want subsidies. I fundamentally reject subsidies because each of us mayors knows how expensive their service is. However, I always say, the system is set, we are obliged to relieve those budgets. But this isn't the case. Here we want the state to return to us what it borrowed from the budgets of municipalities, towns and regions. Note that I don't use the expression to collect, because I expect the Minister to perform and tell us clearly how he wants to compensate for this blackout. Those opinions that say everyone has to be involved in this crisis, so do I. But the municipalities and cities and regions are also affected by this, just like everyone else, because by reducing the base, by not collecting taxes, it all means huge outages in our budgets. I therefore ask the Minister, before the next item, which we will discuss and where we will have a huge dilemma, whether to support the Senate proposal, and thereby possibly endanger the entire compensatory bonus, to help those most needed who are affected by the Corona crisis may be at risk, or whether we will support the budgets of cities and municipalities and, of course, support our colleagues and actually deprive all entrepreneurs of the money that we have approved for them a while ago, and now we would have taken it all back. And I do not want to go through this dilemma, which is why I would like the Minister's clear statement to confirm his words, which vary, and to state clearly how he will strengthen the budgets of cities, municipalities and regions so that we are not actually burdened overly in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u27	Thank you. President Jan Bartošek, this is the final point in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll be brief. I'd say, kind government, you're playing a good game with us right now. Because this is part of a strategy to dismantle, challenge and unsure before the next vote on the compensation bonus. The motion for a resolution, which is here, basically says that the government will provide compensation with a compensatory bonus. And I'm interested: will it be directly into the budgets of the municipalities, or will the government be making excuses and saying "it's through various subsidy programs, we'll try, we'll see"? Sure. I don't understand why the government will take it first, and then it's hard to fill in the budgets in any way. That's completely incomprehensible to me. This means that for me the biggest problem is that I do not trust this government, because it has been clearly said that it will not touch the budgets of municipalities and regions. This promise has not been kept! In case we hadn't noticed, this beautifully walked like a butter knife, municipalities and regions shaved by 11 or 15 billion. and moved on. This means where is the guarantee that if you have not kept your word before, you will not touch the budgets of municipalities and regions, that you will follow the resolution that calls on the government? It is such that, as the Chamber of Deputies, it asks the government if it could. And I want to hear a clear guarantee as to how it's done. And yet for me, the simplest solution and the purest one is the Senate refund of the compensation bonus bill, which I support and prefer. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u29	Thank you and Mr Petr Gazdík will now speak in the debate. Mr Martin Kupka will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u30	Dear Prime Minister, Madam Vice Prime Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the primary task of the government at all times is to keep the country stable. All the more important is this government's task at a time when it is in a crisis of unprecedented scale and unsuspected things that we were unable to estimate until six months ago. What the government is doing with this law is doing the exact opposite. He's throwing the country into instability. They're building tradesmen, municipalities and cities against each other. That's something that's unforgivable. Anyone who has at least an elementary economic education or a feeling, and I assume that both the Prime Minister and the Vice Prime Minister have one, knows that half the fall in the crisis creates distrust, instability and fear. Why are municipalities and regions being thrown into instability and distrust at the moment? My community, if this proposal passes and there is no clear guarantee on the part of the government how and how quickly it will resolve this situation, will immediately interrupt the work on the next phase of the water supply, we will not build another water well, we will not continue to develop optical networks in the village, we will not take measures against drought and we will not build new public lighting. These are investments that would result in local businesses, they should be local businessmen who need them most at this time of crisis. The $500 bonus is nice, but those companies need jobs more and they need stability. And I'm asking you for stability now, and that's why I'm calling you, Prime Minister and Madam Secretary, now and here publicly, come and tell us how you will ensure that stability. Come and tell the municipalities and regions how to solve this problem and how to solve it as quickly as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u31	Good afternoon, honourable Members. We will continue, and by speaking to Mr Martin Kupka, a colleague of Mr Foldyna will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u32	Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, I have read here on 28 April a resolution which should have already brought help to municipalities and cities at the time, plus help to the Czech economy, because it is clear that municipalities and cities are part of the public space, public budgets of the whole Czech Republic, and playing 'we are one and another' is not very meaningful. It makes sense to look for a solution to overcome the crisis, to ensure that budgets of cities and municipalities do not fall into a situation where important investments cannot be continued when we know - and indeed everyone across the House agrees on it - that investment is simply an important step towards bringing the economy back and encouraging it. In this regard, it is worth releasing funds to municipalities and towns and regions for investment, releasing them so that it is really possible to enter into contracts with Czech companies, or just with Czech companies for investment in smaller locations and in larger cities and regions. That's why we came up with the situation we knew about, and we knew about it as much as you did a month ago, and the government was just looking at how to help with the tax loss. After all, it was clear that cities and municipalities would be affected. That is why we are going back to this, and the government has the tools to deal with it, and that does not mean at the expense of the state budget using one part of those public budgets. After all, this is a step of common interest and, after all, in the statement of the Minister of Finance, it is clear that there is a need for municipalities and cities to invest. We're looking for a way to do this, if the interest is serious. I reject the fact that this should be done through subsidies, because we know very well about them that they are one of the most expensive money, because we will use a lot of Czech crowns to secure all the administration to ensure that we make decisions about who receives the subsidy and who does not receive the subsidy. That is why it is appropriate to look for solutions that are as direct as possible and that will allow, for example, as is the case when the state helps municipalities and cities finance electoral spending - very simply money per head comes into individual cities and municipalities and subsequently just bill. In this way, the government can very effectively determine where funding should go, and it should definitely be investment and maintenance, so that it really means stimulating further economic development. There is no doubt that we agree on this. It is clear that under the circumstances the withdrawal of funds from cities and municipalities will necessarily damage the whole Czech Republic. That's not the thing where one of them benefits and the other one suffers. After all, this is a step that will mean loss on both sides, and it makes sense to do everything we can to prevent such losses. Moreover, it is quite conclusive, given the experience that municipalities, cities and regions are able to invest immediately. Do not wait for a project to be approved, because investments are already prepared in most municipalities and cities for this year, they have been budgeted and can therefore be implemented immediately and additional funds can be released into the Czech economy immediately. In this regard, we call again for this - and I remind you that in this step we were a month backward in the same way - so that really we can compensate the municipalities and cities of the blackout ideally in such a way as to make it a clear amount for one person. For example, so that citizens can easily check whether real cities and municipalities have dealt with this so that they have invested in helping the development of local economies as well as in general what we are fighting in the Czech Republic. So again, I call on the government because it can do that. He can do it very quickly. It can, if there's a match, do it today. To decide that within the budgetary reserve it will finance investment, investment in maintenance throughout the Czech Republic through cities and municipalities and regions. It is really a concrete, clear proposal to deal with this and to help the Czech economy. We will undoubtedly support the proposals that will go in this direction, which in a simple way, not by creating new subsidy programmes, and by creating again, surely, inequality in the fact that those communities that have long-standing large projects will necessarily be one step ahead. We are calling for a situation where we are all facing a decline in income to ensure the most reasonable conditions and conditions in municipalities and cities. One more time, then. We will support a proposal aimed at the government finding funds for investment and maintenance in cities and municipalities. Let's not throw villages and cities overboard. It is also clear that we cannot throw overboard all entrepreneurs who are waiting for a compensatory bonus, who are waiting for the Czech Republic to fulfill what we have been talking about in the House for a long time. I'm calling to see if we can solve A and B. So that it doesn't solve A at the expense of B or vice versa, B at the expense of A. The government has the tools to do this, it can be helped and the result, if it does so, for example, according to our inspiration, will benefit both the state as a whole and undoubtedly the individual cities, municipalities and regions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u33	I thank Mr Martin Kupek. Mr. Jaroslav Foldyna now. Věra Kovářová will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u34	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I really don't think this is about a conflict between the opposition and the government. Together, we're looking for a way out of something that no one expected. The post-coronary economic crisis is a very difficult situation, and I don't think it's about what we're going to measure, who's smarter, smarter, or faster. In fulfillment of the forecast, as we are discussing here, this bill would cost municipalities and cities 11 billion crowns. About CZK 11 billion that they are counting on for various investments today, and they have it in their programs. The counties would lose 4 billion crowns. That's just money that basically through those small companies is a solution for the post-coronary economic crisis. We simply cannot afford to create the impression that we support and resolve the crisis by moving money from one pocket to another. [[17.10 hours]] Members of the SPD, the faction in which I am sitting and with which we have discussed this, will support the bill so that in Section 6 para. 2 the text has been modified so that the compensatory bonus is a contribution to the natural person covered by the State budget. We believe that this is the only possible way, and as I have listened carefully to my previous speakers, and I really see this not as a conflict of opposition and government, but as a search for solutions, it is the only possible way, so that we do not make it difficult for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and municipalities to have the situation in which they are not guilty at the moment, and neither is the government that we have come into at the moment. So our proposal is the one that I read here, and we're not going to support what's now being proposed, which means that compensation would go at the expense of the budgets of cities and municipalities and regions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u35	Thank you, Mr Foldyn. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová will speak, and Minister Dostálová will prepare herself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u36	Dear colleagues, at the outset, let me say that helping businessmen, small firms and all those affected by the Coronavirus crisis is necessary and necessary. However, what we cannot agree with and what is unacceptable to us is the way in which the government draws money out of the government's budget for such assistance, without prior warning. If the Minister at the beginning had come up with the idea that the outages for municipalities and regions would exist, that they would be replaced by the massive way they talk about it today, then perhaps today we could forgive ourselves for this discussion. This morning I thought this day would be a black day for the community. This discussion, however, gives me the hope that the day would not be black, but perhaps just dark grey. And I firmly hope and believe that the Minister will come forward here and propose a way to replace these blackouts, the 16 billion, the municipalities and the regions in a simple way and, above all, quickly. It may have already been said here, but do you know how much this measure, on average, will each community lose per capita with this bonus? Each community will receive CZK 1,100 less per capita. This seems to be a small amount, but in a small village with 500 inhabitants, such a municipality will lose more than half a million crowns, and this is certainly a significant budgetary intervention. And, of course, the savings that every community will then have to look for and cut spending, so they will fall and manifest themselves in the quality of life of all citizens. We have noted the forecast of the Ministry of Finance, which talked about the municipality's outages being 11 percent. The situation that is now seems not to be 11 percent, but maybe 20 percent. What brings us to this, to such an estimate? Ask what blackouts are in the municipalities in May compared to May last year. In the polled municipalities, where they have already received all payments for May, there is a difference from 30 to 40 percent, i.e. a blackout for May. This means that the mayors are not only looking for and reducing and adapting their budgets to the situation, to the blackouts that will - because that's what they always said: we're breathing with how the state breathes - and they're looking for all the savings, but the mayors are also telling us that they're going to have to cancel, and cancel, a number of investment projects. You know, it looks like this. We always talk about the investments, but when we project specifically what it means to invest in the village, it's a question of whether children can go to school, if they have kindergarten, if there are buses, if there are safe sidewalks, if citizens have drinking water and so on. And we don't want that to happen, and I don't think the government or the Secretary of Finance are going to do that. Let me just mention one more thing in this discussion. The pandemic of coronavirus really hit not only Europe and the whole world, our state, but all regions, cities, municipalities, without exception. And remember how mayors and mayors behaved at the beginning and during the coronavirus crisis. Not only did they pay all the protective aids from the budgets of their municipalities, but they sewed hundreds of thousands of masks to ensure a large number of disinfectants to protect the health of their citizens. And I just have to sigh - always thank you. The government thanked firefighters, the government thanked doctors, paramedics and so on, but I did not hear from the Prime Minister or the Minister that they would explicitly thank the mayors and mayors who were actually on the front line in their communities. Except they didn't talk about it and they didn't do PR. And what reward did they receive from the government? The reward is minus 16 billion! I want to say that the municipalities are actually dealing with revenue cuts, reducing their expenditures, and that is what the Minister always talks about. They're breathing with the state. But losing 16 billion suddenly was a surprise to them. I would also like to mention here a press release from the Ministry of Finance, when the Minister calls on municipalities and cities that, like the state, they should not limit their investment but, on the contrary, increase their investment, and points out that the government, as it says in the press release, yesterday approved an amendment to the state budget, which increases the state's spending by an additional 40 billion. And the government or the state doesn't hesitate to borrow on the financial market. - Madam Secretary, I just have to say that this is not a possibility for municipalities and cities. They can't print money, they can't borrow and sell bonds like you do. - And it is also said in this press release that municipalities and regions do not have to worry about their legal income. So I think the comments in this regard have been enough. The last topic I would like to comment on is the myths about the savings of municipalities and the rich municipalities, towns and regions and billions of crowns lying in quotation marks on their accounts. And these are just numbers, because why do municipalities and regions have money in their accounts? In short, these are savings that are largely linked to ongoing or planned investments and are also used to pre-finance European and national subsidies, which are generally reimbursed retroactively. Secondly, it must be said that these billions of savings mostly have the largest cities in their accounts. Thirdly, it should be noted that these savings in quotation marks in the accounts of municipalities and regions are not the money of the State and do not belong to it. They belong to the citizens and are decided by municipal and regional representatives, and they are much more visible than the money administered by the Ministry. [[17.20 hours]] Therefore, I would like to call on the Government and, above all, the Minister of Finance to allow municipalities to use their prepared projects, which are prepared with a building permit, to implement them immediately, to enable this and to compensate in a simple way for the failure of all municipalities and cities, on the grounds that investment in municipalities, investment in regions will help to move the local economy. That is what we want all over the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. I'll ask Secretary Klára Dostálová to wait. Petr Gazdík came forward with a factual remark. Yeah? He's pulling her down. Please, Madam Secretary. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u38	Well, thank you. I have really listened very carefully to this debate because, of course, it concerns municipalities that are very important to the Ministry of Regional Development. I wouldn't want to stir up any more debate here, but I'd just like you to put it in some other context. It was often said here that the blackout in small municipalities, now last said, could be up to CZK 500,000. I just want to show you. This is a list of projects. [[He's holding a bundle of documents in his hand.]] And only for Mr Stanjura, through Mr President, is this not a new grant title. These are projects with a building permit, so-called in the project stack. Please, there's 1,500 of them. We've reached out to all the mayors, and we're waiting for the reaction to come back. And if you don't mind, just a few reactions from the mayors. [[He's reading from the tablet.]] "Thank you all for all the mayor's replacements that you are trying to secure funding for projects for the municipalities of our category. You're handy. The village of Hošťálková. - Hello, Otic. Of course we're ready, we have the money to co-finance. - How do you do? Sorry for the late response to your report. However, the interest in the subsidy for the renewal of the crosses continues. We'd like to fix at least one of them. The village of Kelčany." And I could go on like this, because to date, we have 1,145 answers where the mayors want to continue their projects. And if you're saying that the blackout would be about 500,000 for those small municipalities, because you know that the Ministry of Regional Development mainly deals with municipalities up to 3,000 inhabitants, the average amount of funding is between 1.5 million and 10 million. That means three times as much as the blackout. And, of course, those mayors are calling for these subsidies for one simple reason that they will, of course, be happy when the funds already spent on those projects are realized. Which, of course, is an understandable matter. So I would absolutely like to underline here that this is not a new grant title. We're going to the project stack in national grant titles, even within the Integrated Regional Operational Programme itself. If we actually took the idea that we would do it through a budget tax determination, it's just if we realize that we're all trying to help the little ones. And if it were to be a budget tax determination, it would, of course, be the most in favour of the big cities. So once again it is necessary to look at it with a certain logic that we should therefore help those small municipalities. And if I think something, it's really crucial to invest in this crisis. It just needs to be ensured that the resources go into investment. But I guess that's what we agree on. I don't think there's a contradiction in our debates here. So I'm convinced that when we were in a crisis like this that no one got ourselves into by fault, we were all in it, of course, in that situation, probably the first time, or with a high degree of probability for the first time, so to think that the crisis only touches some of the selected public authorities and does not touch the municipalities and regions, I don't think that's the way to think about it. We need to work on that principle of solidarity. And I'm glad that if it's projects ready, then really if there is massive investment support, those decisions will be made by the end of June. Not that we're going to evaluate the grant title for months and so on. That means the investments, and the mayors were responding to whether they had a building permit, until they were able to realize it. And I am very glad that the mayors respond this positive and are ready to make these investments together with us. And I just want to say that the same situation is not just the Ministry of Regional Development. We talked about it in the government. Of course we collect projects of all resorts, which means Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Education, Agriculture and so on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u39	Thank you, Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová. We have four factual and, respectively, three factual points. And the first point is Marek the Výborný, Petr Gazdík prepares himself and then a colleague Jiří Bláha. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u40	Thank you for the floor. [[He speaks very strongly.]] For God's sake, Madam Secretary, what are you talking about? Why are you making it so complicated? Why do you contribute to any projects from your table in the form of your subsidies to municipalities and cities? Then let them have the money! Now you've created a compensation bonus design here, okay, so if you don't want to go on the Senate door, then send them the money so they can have it as income, but don't create any grant titles here. None of the mayors are curious about that. Why are you making this so complicated? Leave them the money, the mayors can handle it, and don't make any tables here. That's completely useless. Like what's easy to do, you make it complicated. That's it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, my colleague Petr Gazdík, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u42	Someone forgot their glasses. Madam Secretary, I guess. [[He's handing over his glasses.]] Madam Secretary, you're making fun of us. It's the only way I see it. You really don't mean that. With this roll, you can get someone who really doesn't know what we're talking about. But I suppose most Members have some community experience, or at least they're judicial, so they know what we're talking about. You're talking about 1,400 projects, but the village is 6,250. What about the others? You're supposed to fuck with your feet? [[In an elevated voice.]] Are you serious? You will give - how will you give us work and games for old Rome? And these are the games? You're the representative of the anti-corruption movement? So how is this going to split up? 6,200 communities, and they only get 1,400? Who's gonna take precedence? Anyone from the YES movement? And that's gonna take months? Shame on you! That's the promotion of corruption!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jiří Bláha, with a point of fact, Mrs Věra Kovářová and Mrs Minister. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u44	Serious colleagues, colleagues, I really don't want to delay. I listened in detail, too. I'm happy for this discussion. This discussion was supposed to be exactly a month ago or three Sundays ago when I asked us to discuss businessmen like this. Here was the question of where the money was collected in the cities and municipalities that were saved. I'll tell you where they came from. They got away from the companies that made it and gave it to you through taxes, and you can manage it. But those firms that were closed or limited did not lose ten, not twenty, not thirty, but often one hundred percent of their monthly turnover or profit. That's just the way it is. In two months of closing those companies - and I'll declare it at my firm - I've lost five years of savings. Five years of savings. That means $20 million for my firm. But this is how thousands of companies all over the country ended up. And thanks to the fact that we didn't help them, that we left them behind, that a number of companies that worked didn't reach bonuses. And when I suggested that we all do it, I was the biggest hyena within the nation, because I took the liberty of saying that we should cut salaries for everyone across the spectrum, so that we could have precisely for those communities, so that we could have for entrepreneurs, for everyone. Because if we're gonna have sex with a handful across, we're not gonna have to do the community, we're not gonna have to do the business. But if the businessman isn't, you won't have a crown in that village. You won't be able to finance buses, kindergartens, schools. So the first thing we were supposed to do was help those entrepreneurs. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u45	Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová has reported with fact, then Minister Dostálová. You have the floor on a point of fact, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u46	I must respond to the Minister, how subsidies are being prepared. I just have to say that the whole system, as it suggests here, what else is going on, we don't really know about the municipalities. But maybe the goal is just to starve the communities and cities, and then just start controlling them through subsidies. And that's just not possible. In addition to Mr Bláh, through the President. The investments we're talking about, that's the... If the municipalities can invest, they will employ small and medium-sized companies, those who work in them will have revenue, and then you, Mr President, may not have such blackouts, because it is these people who will come to your company or to your store. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u47	Thank you for your respect for the factual point. Now, Minister Klára Dostálová, my colleague Bartošek will be ready. Madam Secretary, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u48	Thank you. I'll just be very brief. I don't think we listened to each other. Again, funding is focused on the project magazine, not a new grant title. And all projects will be supported in the project stack. That means some sort of address here for party books, please leave it out of the way! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u49	Thank you, Madam Secretary. [[A round of applause for members of the ANO and KSČM movement.]] Now, Mr Jan Bartošek, with a point of fact, will prepare himself with the priority right of colleague Zbyněk Stanjura, who preceded a duly registered colleague Juránek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, I like the ANO movement's password on the whole design that you want a simple, functional and inexpensive state. That's why you're going to collect taxes so that you can split them back through the grant titles so that you can control the grant titles and you can load the mayors with a lot of paperwork and filling and nonsense so that they get lost in it, and then you don't have to pay the subsidies. That's a logic I don't understand. Don't be mad at me, but why make it easy when it's complicated? All you have to do is let the budgeting determine the taxes as it is, and the mayors can handle it. No. With this mechanism, you will create work for thousands of officials and bureaucracy, so instead of electronizing the government, we will go back through paperwork, filling in and checking. This is a simple functional state according to the YES movement. Thank you, I don't want this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u51	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now with priority rights... or with a point of fact, Madam Secretary? [[Schiller]] With priority rights. First, Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura, then Minister of Finance. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u52	I have to say, I don't understand what the government is doing in these hours and minutes. There's a problem, that's what we all agree on. We don't agree how to solve it. One trip was proposed by colleagues from the Senate - I will not comment on it now. The second trip here, Madam Secretary of State for Regional Development - that's the worst, some kind of grant title. And I repeatedly, for the second time today, but it's about the tenth time in the last five weeks, offering the government a simple journey - and I'm glad the Prime Minister is here. You don't even have to summon an extraordinary government, Prime Minister. If you decide on Monday to release the 15 billion from the government's budget reserve, about 10.5 billion for the municipalities, 4.5 billion on the edge, then next week the authorities and their council, the mayors in the bill, and the problem is solved. [[unintelligible]] We can easily vote point five in the House version. That way it gets to hundreds of thousands of tradesmen and hundreds of thousands of small s. r. o. Now we've been here for about two and a half hours discovering long ago. Why make it easy when it's complicated? The grant title in general is by its very nature unfair, bureaucratic, useless. So either the government wants to compensate the money for the municipalities - and I understand from the appearance of many members of the government that yes, so let's make it simple. There's a draft of 1,600. We will present our proposal, which is in line with the legislative process that was discussed in the Senate, 1,000 and 400. We will also support the first one after the procedural proposal, so that ours will be voted on as the second one if the first one doesn't happen to pass. And the problem is solved. And it is resolved in the course of next week and we do not have to listen across our parliamentary offices - as Mr Bláha says - to the legitimate plights of the mayors across the Republic. Permission to miss the mayors. They'll deal with the reduced tax income, they're okay with it. And it's okay. If the state chooses less, so have less municipalities and regions, it is logical. And no one is suggesting that we settle this at the expense of state finances, at the level of 2019, 2018 or more. But the proposed solution is simply unnecessarily complicated. Madam Secretary Dostálová, this is against the interests of the mayors and municipalities. And you quoted here a letter from Otic. I've known Mr. Mayor Otice for a long time. It was - I hope that the mayor, when he reads it, or when he hears it, don't get offended - he was my great official before he set out on the path of municipal politics, is a very successful municipal politician, he is the mayor of Otice for the third time. This time he didn't even have an opponent because it's really doing well, and voters, citizens of Otic, appreciate his work. Madam Secretary, let's call him now and ask him, since you've already taken him to your mouth, Mr. Mayor Otice, whether he would welcome a simple CZK 1,000 per head next week or a grant title. I know he's ready. He's always ready. He's got a project magazine. But why make it easy? And I bet Mr. Mayor Otice without blinking an eye will say, "Oh, of course I'm in favour of a simple journey of CZK 1,000 per head, or CZK 1,100 per head." Send it to me, I'll deal with it. My council can handle it. Yes, in the worst case scenario, if you invent a grant title, I'm ready to send a request for the grant." But why do it so complicated? Or do we have a distrust of the municipal council, which enjoys the greatest support of our citizens from public institutions? When you compare trust, the House, the Senate, the government, the regional council, the municipal council, so long term, with a significant lead are municipal councils. Then why are you defending yourself? If you say you'll release the money. We have even proposed as citizens' democrats that there be conditions for it to be either investment or property maintenance. I'm not gonna say the difference is very small for the third time. I think every council can handle it, and then in January, they'll text you how the money was used. Without someone writing a request, without a selection committee being made, without someone being above the line, there's going to be a footnote. Because Petr Gazdík was absolutely right. We have 6,250 municipalities, and everyone deserves it. Then why is there a grant title? Or does Secretary Dostálová think that some of these communities don't deserve it? Then tell us here, which community doesn't deserve it. So if everyone's gonna get it, then why should they write applications? I don't think so. The only thing I can think of is that the government doesn't want to give the money, but at the same time they say they want to give it. And they can't pay both conditions at once. So if the government wants to give them, and there's a majority will in the House, we'll send either 1,100 plus 600 or 1,000 and 400. And it's done. Problem solved. The D.A.'s got it covered next week. And it's very likely that it'll be small orders that local companies will get it. Those who need contracts in these weeks and months. And not that in September they will learn the result of the grant procedure. I understand. She gave it to him, not him. She gave it to him, not him. But that's not what those councils of all communities and cities deserve.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u53	So now, while the Minister of Government Alena Schillerová is duly registered, he notes that Kalousek. Mr. Juránek is still on hold. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u54	Thank you for the floor. I merely wanted to respond briefly to Mr Stanjura's argument, who asked the rhetorical question whether the government wanted to give the money or not. Well, that applies both, my colleague, through the President. He wants to give it to someone, and he doesn't want to. With this mechanism, by removing about 11 percent of the community's income and then giving a subsidy to someone, the central government's power over democratically elected councils is disproportionately strengthened. And that is one of the things for which it is difficult to accept this process. If we just want to keep the power balanced, let's give the municipalities back the money. Whatever the Senators suggest - I'm willing to initiate a quick one-time amendment to the RUD, it doesn't matter. But in some way, let's give it back to the 6 248 municipalities without choosing which ones we do and which ones we don't, if we mean it honestly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u55	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová with priority rights. Please, Madam Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'll be very brief. I'm not gonna solve the compensation bonus. We're about to have that point, and I'm going to have a long opening word where I'm going to describe the whole genesis, and I'm going to remind you how the Chamber of Deputies voted, and we're going to tell each other everything about it. So I'll tell you in a minute when we get to point 5. It's just, I'm listening to the debate here. Am I to understand that you don't want community subsidies? That means, you don't want community subsidies, you don't want subsidies at all? That means, says President Bartošek here - leave the RUD there and we'll deal with it. RUD, do you realize what the largest amount is coming from RUD, who's good at it? It's Prague, Brno, Ostrava, Plzeň. That's where the biggest amount of RUD goes. If it weren't for the subsidies and there weren't programs that Minister Dostálová spoke of, any small community wouldn't get anything at all. That's what you need to realize when you're pronouncing these courts so harshly about what the secretary here said. You say, "Save for investment." You know, we see it at the Treasury Department. Yes, it saves on investment, the money in the accounts is. I've got - I'm not gonna remind you right now, maybe in this talk about compensation, bonus - I've got about a hundred cities here, how many bills they've got and so on. But I don't want to blame you right now. I don't want to. It saves on investments, and then we see it. The project value of the investment is 240 million, and when the implementation takes place in three or four years, it's 400 million. And it's just a raise and so on. And completely, I find the unfair here all these debates about the corruption environment and the fact that somebody gets a grant. The subsidy process is clearly transparent. There are challenges, conditions must be met, a commission meeting, it points out. You all know that. How could anyone pass subsidies to someone else and not to someone else? On the contrary, we are thinking of restoring a program that was very popular with the Ministry of Finance for municipalities up to 3,000 inhabitants. Madam Secretary has these grant titles, we have education, we have sport. There's a lot of it. We'll support twos, threes, now in relation to the county. So I just think this is a debate that's undignified. And on top of that proposal for that one-time allowance. Yes, it would - I had an analysis done - it wouldn't be that simple, maybe it would need a novel. I'm sure it would work. I'm not gonna say it here. I can do it. But what is the certainty - and it doesn't matter if the sum is a thousand crowns, five hundred crowns, two hundred crowns - what is the certainty that the money - if you're doing it for the certainty - what is the certainty that the money will actually go to investment? I don't want to accuse anyone, but we want it to be invested so that the regions, cities, communities with investments can really help us, because that's the only thing that's gonna kick this economy. So that's why I don't like it. And just one small point, Mrs Kovářová. You are wrong, municipalities can issue bonds and can trade in financial markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u57	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance. Now three factual points - Mr Kupka, Gazdík and Onderka. Then a colleague of Juránek's, is patience itself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u58	Madam Secretary mentioned that the debate was undignified. So I haven't seen anything undignified about her until her note. After all, we all know that once a subsidy program gets into funding, of course that means a lot more spending, because someone has to check it out, someone has to write it down, someone is intensively involved in the Ministry and, of course, also in the municipalities and cities. It is simply a more demanding model, which is selective by its very nature, has its place. But if we are looking for a way to really help cities and municipalities very quickly and fairly, it is simply not the way of newly announced or already existing grant programs, but indeed the area support that will aim at the head. And I said a way to ensure that and how it's tried. We all have experience in municipalities and cities with how elections are financed. A specific contribution to the head and subsequently only happens that municipalities and cities will send a very simple settlement of the financial amount. Very simple. Once it is said that it is intended for investment and maintenance, it is sufficient for cities and municipalities to send back to the state only a statement of what the funds have spent on. And if it's not enough to invest everything, just like in the case of elections, they're going to pay back the small amount. But it's the most righteous way, the fastest, without administrative burdens, without extra funding. And here I thought we had a majority agreement that every bureaucracy was useless. And here at the same time, at a time when we are dealing with an urgent need, we are introducing other bureaucratic mechanisms, administration of projects on the side of the Ministry and administrative complexity on the side of municipalities and cities. Totally useless. We're doing a thing that could be simple, much more complicated. So please, I'm calling for common sense. There is a road that the state and municipalities have repeatedly touched, and it is possible to continue in this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u59	Thank you. Now, colleague Petr Gazdík, with a point of fact, will prepare his colleague Onderka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u60	Hello. Madam Secretary, the way in which big cities and smaller communities are breathing together, I'm sure you've noticed that we've been dealing with this for many years. And in 2013, we were actually able to sort it out, and the immoral per capita income gap between the largest cities and the smaller ones fell from 6.5 times in 2013 to about three times that already reflects the local services that the major cities, or the larger cities in general, are creating. So if you're worried about small communities, it's very commendable, but the difference, and the ratio between them is much more decent now than it used to be, and it works. And the other thing. If we're talking about corruption, transparency, resources and grant titles, try asking in Brno's YES. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u61	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now a colleague named Onderka with a factual remark. Mrs Věra Kovářová will prepare herself, also with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, please don't open the tax budget, don't open this Pandořin box. I have personally seen it open, and my colleague Gazdík has spoken about it through the President. That Prague and Brno have most of the RUD. Well, logically, when the districts were changing and the regions were implementing, the property, such as the theaters, after, I don't know, the zoo, went under the city of Brno. And, of course, she got funding from the state for that. And from this point of view, it is necessary to perceive what these cities care about, what and what needs they provide not for their citizens, but for the citizens of the region and also other regions who come to these theatres, in addition to other facilities. Let's not open this Pandořin box, please, and let's focus on the point we're discussing. And the point is, as the Chamber of Deputies, we made a mistake because we did not realize that public finances are the finances of municipalities and regions. Only the mayors and mayors of the Czech Republic brought this to our attention. And we're here today to correct that mistake. This means that the family s. r. o. should not lose these funds, but at the same time that we should not take these funds away from the municipalities and regions of the Czech Republic, because they will need them to start the economics of history much faster and much better than it was in the previous crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u63	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I can't respond, I'd have to take my place, no one to replace me. Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u64	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for leading me out of the bond mistake. And now, to her point, that what is being proposed here could be sent directly to municipalities and regions, but that there is no certainty as to whether it would be invested. Well, that's a big mistake! And you know why? Well, who controls the council's decision-making in the municipalities? Citizens! How to choose the mayor or council of the community? For what? Well, if the council, the community invested enough and built what the community needed. And that is the certainty that the representatives, the mayors, are controlled by their citizens, and then these citizens decide in the elections whether the municipal council has invested enough. And anyone who wants to be elected must invest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u65	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, colleague Václav Votava, Jan Bartošek and Marek Výborný will be prepared. My colleague Juránek is really full of patience. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, are now often bowing down and it is popular - to invest from the crisis, to invest, to invest. Fine. But there must also be something to invest. And if the municipalities lose part of the shared bonus tax that is paid and they lose more of the shared taxes by working what works, the pandemic has worked, 20 percent, the mayors are sure to verify how much they're getting now in the individual tranches, so what are they supposed to invest from? And they're still getting away from the bonus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u67	I also thank you for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, colleague Jan Bartošek, will prepare Marek Výborný. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u68	Thank you for the floor. First of all, through you, a colleague named Onderk. Mr President, I pointed out that there will be a problem with public budgets of municipalities and regions in the Chamber of Deputies when I tabled an amendment to this press. Your coalition rejected him then. And the solution was here. Subsequently, the Senate responded. Second thing. I have listened very carefully to your statement, Madam Secretary of Finance, and I understand that this is about two things. First of all, you don't know if the ODS proposal is feasible, if I understood it well, but secondly, that you really want to determine what they should spend on these municipalities. You make the mayors incompetent, because you from Prague will tell them how to do it better and what to spend it on, because you here in Prague at the ministries will wisely write them grant projects and say, "Dear Mayors, here you are and try it." Please leave the mayors and the county alone. As former mayor, I can tell you that anyone who's been through community policy and likes his town knows for himself what he can spend his money on. He doesn't need advice from Prague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u69	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Now, colleague Marek Výborný and perhaps it will come to Mr Juránek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u70	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, thank you for confirming that this is possible, that you can send the contribution to municipalities and cities that would fall out because of their contribution to the compensation bonus. That's good news. It may need specific stories. So again simple numbers for the town of Holice in Bohemia. The predicted revenues were 106 million, now modified by Rating are 88 million, i.e. the fall in income on shared taxes in Holice town in Bohemia is already some 18 million, plus about 6 million would take measures in what we are talking about now, which means a share in the compensatory bonus. But what really bothers me here, and I feel that this is the core - it has been said by you, it has been said by Minister Dostálová. Why is there such distrust of the municipalities? Why do you want to control everything, why are you talking about where we can be sure that the mayors would - they would probably take it home and sew it up in the strosoke and sleep on it! Or I don't know what you're thinking. There are people living there, those people know what the government is doing, those people need to fix the pavements, they need to work the nursery, they need to do sewers, water ducts, etc., so, for God's sake, believe them. I really don't know. It feels like you're in Jiříkův's vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u71	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now also a colleague Jan Birke with a factual remark, and then perhaps he will be a colleague of Mr Juránek and a colleague of Mr Vostrá. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I apologize to my colleague, Juránek, for delaying him. Let's pour some pure wine. Excuse me, I'm gonna be very open right now. In ten years, I've spent 1.9 billion on subsidies. Period. Really. Very decent number. On the other hand, I must say, if you want to give a compensation bonus of CZK 1000 per capita for a community with 500 inhabitants, if I count correctly, it is CZK half a million. For half a million crowns, you can't even build 150 metres of pavement from your own resources. Own resources, no subsidies. Small villages will build nothing at all. So let's face it, let's face it, and let's not say here if something's wrong or good. It's just reality. And let's not open the RUD. If we open the debate on the RUD - and I experienced it seven years ago, if I'm not mistaken, it was a terrible debate. Terrible debate, what is the difference between Prague, what is the difference between the threesome, we take the money from Prague, etc. etc. Well, they've got 20 billion in Prague, so we can take it from this Prague guy, it's easy. Oh, my God, this isn't the answer! That is absolutely no solution. Forget it right now, I said something like that here, of course. I see - Mr. Chairman Bartoš looks at me badly... Well, it looks like he's smiling under that gown now, thank you very much. No, so I just want to say that we need to look at this really rationally, and I think we're all saying the same thing here that we can just get out of it by investing. But the problem is, if we don't kick the e-shopper, the businessmen, in some way, we just don't get the taxes. We don't get the taxes, it's a straight line, and it's a closed circle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u73	Your time for a point of fact is over. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's point of view is now still in fact. Prime Minister, you have the floor. I'm taking your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u74	Thank you for the floor. The honourable colleague, Mr Birke, spoke up and I must say that I did not understand whether there was a resolution or not, or which way to go. I'm sorry. . I think what we designed is really simple and feasible. Don't underestimate the small communities. For 500,000, they may not build a kilometer of pavement, but they'll maintain property, repair a piece of kindergarten or something. There are many such villages in my district. The mayors can handle the half a million. I know the view from the county town is a little different. But there are other price ranges. And very often local businessmen, local businessmen, get it. That's what we're talking about. These are continuous vessels to start the economy in the municipalities. Yeah, four-billion freeway tender. It's a good thing, isn't it? There the minister will add 10 percent mainly to foreign companies and it will not happen to small Czech companies. If we're here to help the mayors with high probability for small businesses, suddenly there's a problem. I really don't understand. If we're going to put the money there, let's make a simple trip, and it's there next week, it's in Náchod, in Trutnov. And there's a lot of successful mayors here, and you can handle it without us telling you what to do about it. And investment is also the preparation of projects for future subsidies, for participation. You need to get that designer. And that's what the mayors are afraid of. They may still make it out of the reserves this year, but they'll miss it in a year or two, because this year they won't have to prepare for the project. And then in a year, in two, we'll be surprised no one's reporting for grant titles. What would he claim if he couldn't pay for a $50,000 or $70,000 project today? And it's fair if we say the same thing on our heads, it's fair and it's simple. We will not humiliate anyone by writing requests and then saying, "ježiš, my application failed because my clerk forgot to deliver document number 13" The mayors understand. So my proposal is to support the first or second resolution, let the government do it next week and we can focus on -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u75	Mr President, your time for a point of fact has come to an end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u76	We can focus on point 5 and approve support for businessmen and small s. r. o.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u77	Two more factual points - colleague Jan Birke, then Jiří Bláha. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u78	Mr. colleague, I'm sorry to keep you waiting. I'm sorry. I just need to respond. I, of course, am not in any way in my first performance, nor in this second, did the village of A, which means the smallest ones, I have 36 of them under me and I know them very well, I would say in detail, their budget options and their room of manoeuvre. It's not often very big, I'd say it's very small, so I'm not questioning it at all. [[18.00 hours]] The fact that I said half a million crowns is the view of the big city, the administrative district, I understand. And I agree with you that he's not gonna want to build a sidewalk, but maybe it's gonna be some sort of development or fix a long-term unsolvable problem, let's say rooftops in a firehouse. Period. No, I'm not questioning this, but your question was whether I support the Senate or the House version. I support the House version, because at this point, at least we're going to move somewhere, because the fact is, without the economy and without the support of the entrepreneurs, we just can't put it. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u79	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. A real comment by Jiří Bláha. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u80	Thank you for your word. Colleagues, colleagues, there's still the RUD, but no one's gonna say it's crucial. We still hear - don't open, don't open, don't open. But I just think we should open up and talk about it. Because it is not possible for such absurd divisions to take place within the Republic as one city gets 11,000 per capita, and I note that the city of 100 thousand, and the other city gets 22,000 per capita. And each city is in a different region, each city has different weather conditions, someone worse, someone better, someone has more theatres, someone has more hills and more roads in the hills, etc. and nobody cares. And like those citizens in that town where they only have 11,000 per capita, they're worse than the citizens and they're entitled to less comfort, less things to be financed? That's what I think is crucial. So for me, we should open the RUD. Let's get it back on track. I think a number of mayors have it ready, we could talk about it for the rest of the year and prepare it for the next House, for example, to sort it out once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u81	I thank you for keeping time on a point of fact. Another factual comment by Petr Dolínek and a colleague of Juránek is still prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u82	Thank you. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I'm very displeased here to feel the desire to take advantage of the situation that's been going on in the last few months, to try and get something for a community. At this point, I think the Minister has put forward a law that relates to helping someone who can be helped immediately. In addition, it is important to mention that there must be clear promises that there will be no help for municipalities and regions. But to calculate at this point how many visitors will use Prague pavements where universities are, how many visitors will use other things, how many visitors will use Prague stops, etc., I don't think it's appropriate. Let's just say that we can figure out what's on the table. I am not happy with the House version, but the Senate proposal will not bring anything to anyone today. I will therefore support the proposal that is put forward here, and at the same time I firmly hope that we are able to resolve this in a way that really helps in those municipalities and regions that, fortunately, have money in the coming months, and I hope that at the end of this year we will meet here and we will be able to say that the Ministry of Finance has helped both those who need it now and the municipalities and the regions. And I just hope, of course, that it won't be through any subsidies that have to be negotiated at ministries, but it will be through the money that the mayors and the authorities, whom I personally trust, have shown in the past that they are able to invest, will be able to use as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u83	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact, and now finally a duly registered colleague Stanislav Juránek, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u84	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, all the others who are here, I did not want to respond to anyone. I wanted to say my experience, and I wanted to say it completely. I'm going to call it from the perspective of a man who started politics in the ordinary town area. The town of Brno is indeed worse off than Horní Dolní, because it has much less powers than any other municipality in the Czech Republic. When I took my sequel, I was the mayor, I was the governor, and I got into the Senate as a senator. And I would say that it is all these things that are affected today. If we are talking about the problem that has arisen here, the problem is that we did not appreciate it as the Chamber of Deputies, and the Senate somehow stopped us and pointed out that we were going to solve the problem. The Chamber of Deputies has a great advantage. He can find his own solution, he can use the solution he invented by the Senate. But what was said here was that he alerted us that there was a breach of balance. You know, when we look at the budgets of cities, municipalities and regions - I stress regions - they are built in two parts in some way. That part of it is what it says here all the time that it is the budgetary determination of taxes. But that's money that regularly goes into the budget, and it's money that municipalities, cities, and regions can plan for the future. It's not just that something just happened. This is about that community, that the region, that the city has a great opportunity to plan something based on these basic money. And it is only then that there is the possibility of subsidies that are necessary for the larger development elements to occur, and certainly no community will give up on them. That means, we now, at this point - what I hate most - want to disrupt the balance that is here. And now I'm going to tell you what the balance is. Not only the municipalities, but also the regions are somehow involved in revenue from the budget. If the state gets a lot of money, it gets the same amount of money and a lot of money the county, gets the city, gets the village. And this balance has been broken. 16 billion crowns were taken out of the money to get the municipalities. And that's very important. It's not where the money went, it's where the money went, it's where the money's supposed to work for many and many decades. Despite all the governments that are here. Of course, it took a long time for the municipalities to agree on some budgetary determination of taxes, and my previous speaker here said that this had happened, that the debate on the budgetary determination of taxes between Prague and Horní Dolní took place - and I am convinced that it is always far from complete satisfaction, but that perhaps the satisfaction and agreement has already occurred here. Now I will turn to the budgetary determination of taxes on the regions, because the regions were actually created at the end of 2000 and the budgetary determination of taxes depended on the activities previously held by the district authorities, and those regions had to somehow agree on how to distribute to them the money that the government, then government, had prepared into the regions. And I am glad that all the regional peculiarities that work within the Czech Republic were taken into account at that time. I am glad that this agreement has taken place. And that's when the important thing came up. And it was important for those regions, as it was before for the municipalities. You'll breathe with the state budget. If the state has a lot - and I repeat it again - if the state has a lot - you will also have a lot. If something hits him, and it was, like, flood or corona now, then at that point, you'll feel it. And what I want to say in this interpretation is that these municipalities are going to do this. They get less money in the budget, given how the coronavirus turned out and how it was collected, or rather, they didn't collect and they didn't collect taxes. That means there's total justice and balance here. [[18.10 hours]] What is ahead of us is the possibilities that have been calculated here in some way, and they have been discussed. But take it that the best thing to do was to maintain the budgetary determination of taxes as it is, and find in the budget the money that can be given to entrepreneurs. If we break this path, if we get used to compensating for something that we don't have to compensate for, we're going to create big problems in our budget and create big problems between cities, municipalities and regions on the one hand, and the state and government on the other. And I don't want that, because really, the money from the tax budget is just a base. This isn't about whether or not to want subsidies, it's whether I can afford to co-finance subsidies, or I can't afford to co-finance whether I can shine in that village, whether I can take care of school, whether the region can take care of its basic things that affect it, such as - now I will stress - hospitals, but also regional development. And I would like to emphasise this, given that there is a significant function of regions, which is more or less fulfilled in different regions, and that is regional development. And if, in the context of regional development, there will not be adequate money in the budgetary determination of taxes, then the region cannot help to develop individual regions of its region, and I therefore recommend that we look for such a way to deal with this, so that we have and preserve the budgetary determination of taxes. And once again, I will stress why: because it has been dragging around all along, in some way it is evolving and has never, in any way, touched on the budgetary determination of taxes. [[There's a lot of noise in the room!]] When we leave this path, there is always a way of greater injustice in the distribution of money, because the budgetary determination of taxes has its rules, it has its coefficients, it comes to the places where I think it best belongs, because it is well negotiated both at the level of cities and municipalities and at the level of regions. But the moment I choose any other solution, I'm already going to do an imbalance there, because I have to do it in the simple way that it is designed, as my colleagues from other political parties have suggested here, and the solution is only partial. What's the worst part about it is that it's going to be said: out of this money that municipalities, regions and cities have, we can borrow money at any time, and we can use it for something, and that's wrong. That's wrong, because it's going to be a precedent here, and it's going to say yes, it's already been used since the coronavirus was here, and we can use it again. That's why I say again, we can use different solutions, there are many mathematical solutions, but in terms of continuity, which works here and in some way co-created, we get to the situation that we're going to bring in a wedge that means that we're going to have to deal with some things from the start. One of the things that threatens to happen just after that is that then we will really have to touch on the budgetary determination of taxes. And as my previous speaker said here, it's not a good way to go. The budgetary determination of taxes has been discussed so many times when I talk about municipalities that we cannot consider these matters. There is only a question for the regions, if there is a reform of the public administration, for which now is not the time to complete it, but that time has not been here for twenty years, it is important that, at a time when certain competences can be given to the regions, the budgetary determination of the taxes of the regions should then be increased. But I say again, even earlier, it was said that if the budgeting of regional taxes was to be increased, that it would always be associated with some competences that the region would exercise, and now I will say or with the needs of a state that would find that it could be done better through the regions. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop. Very poor hearing.]] I'm here to give a theme about the regional development function. This means that when the government, in cooperation with the Ministry of Regional Development, decides to support part of regional development across the regions and trusts them, it can increase the budgetary determination of regional taxes. But I'm going back. That's not the job. The task today is to correct the mistake we made in the previous hearing. We made the mistake of solving one problem by creating a second problem here. And that is why I would be very happy to say that it is much better to increase the budget deficit, as we in the KDU-ČSL supported this deficit, because we said that it is better if the money and the problems that are being addressed are resolved through the budget deficit than to move the various components of the budget without consideration at the first moment. And here, please, let us look for this path. I believe we can come to some kind of road and come to a conclusion. I believe that in all political parties there are municipal politicians, that we all want to help the regions that now, at this point, have ahead of the elections, and they have before the elections, which will mean roughly the same thing that was in 2000, that means there will be a completely unknown road ahead of them. The unknown path is also within cities and municipalities, but the regions are only in that situation for the second time for their existence, that is, at the very beginning, and now, at this time, after the real change of all the economy and all the things that will concern regional development, I think it is a great opportunity for those who will sit in regional councils in the autumn of this year, and I very much intercede to find room in all the regions for all the representatives who will be members of the council, as it was in the first parliamentary term. At that time the region had to be built, but those regions had very low budgets, but what was was enthusiasm - we do something for our region, we do something for our communities. And I had the opportunity to live as the chieftain for a wonderful summer when I worked with the mayor of the village, and I was so concerned that I found out that the mayor I was doing had so much more immediate concerns, and the governor is actually becoming the mayor of the mayor, and he can also afford to say, "Yeah, you dropped the roof, so first do whatever you can to get the roof fixed, and then I'll help you out, 'cause that county budget can help you out a little bit. And that is a very important matter that we are about to face. I think that immediately these regions will see and feel the end of the entrepreneurs that we now want to support, who have been linked to regional budgets and the budgets of cities and municipalities. And I see that it is very important that we follow up on these things and leave the space, at least as far as the budgetary determination of taxes is concerned, in the form that these regions can count on at the moment. I know that in our region we are considering which items we will limit by the end of the year. But what I do not want to be limited is investment issues, and investment at regional level allows investment to be made immediately without large tenders and without major risks. [[18.20 hours]] If we can find the right way right now, I ask that this path be sustainable in the long term, as long-term sustainability can be the way in which the budgetary determination of taxes can be distributed. I'm begging you. Because if we dissect cities and municipalities, we will also make a number of suppliers that are there and, in fact, we will endanger a relatively large number of labour. And I dare say this thing is going to be one of those things at the beginning of next year, and actually in the next election period of the regions, where all the support for every job that exists in the region will be sought. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] And I'm really convinced that we're gonna find a common match. I just want to say once again that it is important to maintain the balance on the one hand of the budgetary determination of taxes on which the regions, municipalities and cities are based, and on the other hand the possibility of grant titles, where the main word will definitely be played by the ministries and the government, but in the second place in aid and cooperation, the regions will play this possibility. I firmly believe that I have managed to outline at least the difference between the money that comes from the budgetary determination of taxes and the money that comes from the subsidies. The last thing I want to say is a request that we look for a solution that will be really quick parties to entrepreneurs and, on the other hand, preserve, if possible, the income of budgetary determination of taxes to the regions as it has been negotiated in the long term and how it can help within the entire economic system of public budgets in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u85	I thank Mr Juránek. Before I give the floor with priority rights to Jan Chvojka and then to my colleague Vostrá, I will read the apologies received from today's meeting, starting at 6 pm from the Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček and at 19 pm by Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková. Now with priority rights, the chairman of the Social Democracy Club. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u86	Good evening, colleagues. We have 18.22, I thought we'd be faster today, but as always, it takes a little bit, which is correct. Democracy, debate. We have ambitions as a government coalition, but I know that some of the other clubs, too, to discuss Senate vomit plus, please, first reading, cancel the property acquisition tax. Therefore, on behalf of the two members of the ČSSD and the YES movement, I would like to propose that the Chamber of Deputies act and, on a case-by-case basis, vote today on all proposals after 7 pm and after 21 pm, and I believe that we will certainly be able to do this before the 21st hour, but in the context of prevention, I propose after 21 pm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u87	Thank you. Procedural design. The chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura will comment on it. I'm gonna go on, Mr. Chairman, so it's gonna be a little loud in here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u88	We will vote against it, Prime Minister Chvojka. And a simple reason. It is good that the government coalition wants to discuss the long-term programme objective of the ODS to abolish the real estate tax. I commend you. But unfortunately, for three hours, maybe three and a half, the government coalition has been discussing these other points. If the Prime Minister were to perform at 3:10 p.m. and he said, I'll do it next week, 10,5 billion of the government's budget reserve goes to the municipalities, 4 billion to the regions, I guarantee it, believe me. And we could have saved ourselves three and a half hours of the debate. 'Cause unfortunately we still can't hear it from the Prime Minister, because he's running the government, now he's saying, as a family of companies, as I've read, so I believe he'd make it to the firm a long time ago, so if the government wants to, and if the Prime Minister does, then maybe we'll be done by 8:00, because then point 5 will be very simple, well, municipal police is a little bit more complicated, tax on acquisition... [[The speaker is looking at the board, where the following point 5 shines a compensatory bonus, point 6 of the municipal police, point 76 of the acquisition tax.]] Cancellation of property acquisition tax we will definitely support at first reading cancellation after five years. We first proposed this in 2015. It took five years to convince you. But next time, we'll try to be faster. But now we still have two hours to debate, which is right, because we need assurances from the members of the government that they will solve this and that they will resolve it quickly, so we won't make it to midnight with that. It's in your hands. The Prime Minister has it in his hands. Now that he's getting off, he'll say about what I said, we'll appreciate it, the mayors of all communities will appreciate it, I think the captains will appreciate it, too. And we can go to point 5. But if the members of the government are still here to tell fairy tales about how they're gonna give us great grant titles, then we're gonna keep coming to convince you, and it might take five years, like the real estate tax. And that would be wrong. In the meantime, these municipalities really wouldn't have any economic capacity at all. And let me just remind you that we've narrowed it down, the use of money, the financials for investment and asset maintenance. And you don't have to worry about that, even the Minister of Regional Development doesn't have to worry about some of the council not being able to do it. Every council can do it. So, Prime Minister, it's in your hands. Now, if you tell us the simple three or four sentences, we can end this point with a vote. In ten minutes, we've got point number five in a row. Then we'll have a minute with the municipal police, and then we'll quickly go through the first reading and cancel the property acquisition tax, as we've been proposing for five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u89	So, well, there was no procedural counterproposal. We will therefore vote on Mr Jan Chvojka's procedural proposal, and then we will continue the debate with the speech of Mrs Miloslava Vostrá. I've begun. The login status has stabilized. If you're interested in checking out, I'll check you all out and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will decide on the proposal to negotiate, on a case-by-case basis, after 19th and 21st hours, in voting number 29, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 29 out of 180 present for 104, against 33. The motion was accepted. So we will act and decide accordingly. I will therefore now ask for a speech by Mrs Miloslava Vostroa, who is the last to be entered into the general debate. And then the Prime Minister checks in. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u90	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, members of the government, colleagues, from the debate that has been raised here, it is clear that no one wants the municipalities and regions to somehow make up for the situation created by the coronavirus and that we are trying to find some rational solution to the situation. On the other hand, let's face it, we voted on the compensation bonus several times. From the very beginning, it was clear how it would be financed. And basically, we did it because the first time he was voted, if I'm not mistaken, here in my notes, until April 30th, and then you remember that we were extending the compensation bonus here and raising it for the little eseróčka, which I think is the right way to go. I'm not discussing that at all. It's the right way. I'm sure we'll all remember how the designs were made here, not 25, 30, 40, two, three, five people. But nobody - none of us - mentioned here that it would basically be paid out of funds, let's say when I say tax refunds on dependent activities, taxes shared. It needs to be realized that the burden is actually a little bit more than a third, it's about 32 percent rounded up, it's ammunition, and the rest stays on state budgets. That's what you need to remember here, too. And otherwise, I'm sorry, unlike my colleagues, I forgot to report a conflict of interest. I am a representative of the community, a thousand inhabitants. Yes. I also report a conflict of interest. And I am reporting a conflict of interest because I am proposing a resolution. From the whole debate, and also, of course, as we all had a connection with the mayor, it turned out that, in fact, the most, most of all, by this decision that I think was right, because we supported about 700,000 CFIs and a small eseróčka, so the most from our point of view it affects small municipalities. For the very smallest village, where a blackout every 10,000 plays a big role. We are fully aware of this, and on the other hand, we agree that investment must not be stopped in all the municipalities that are started, negotiated, and also on the margins. So from all this, let me introduce you to the motion for a resolution that I am giving you to consider. [[18.30 hours]] The motion for a resolution would read: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to submit an A) proposal for a solution to the loss of income from shared taxes in connection with the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus in municipalities of up to 3,000 inhabitants; (B) A proposal for financial collateralisation of investment actions by municipalities and regions in 2020 and 2021 in connection with a tax loss of at least 15 billion." And I'd like to propose a deadline by 16. 6. 2020 because it should be a variable week, that we will meet here and that I assume the government will introduce us to how it will address this situation. So this is the motion for a resolution for the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, and I believe that you will support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u91	Have a good evening. Now with priority rights, Mr Stanjura should have been President, but he is giving the Prime Minister the floor. He asked me himself, Prime Minister, so don't worry. So the Prime Minister will perform and prepare the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club and subsequently with the priority right of the rapporteur, Mr Martínek. All right, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u92	So hello, Mr President, honourable Members. So I've been challenged, I've been sitting here almost all day, and I'm not surprised. The skill and the performance. I understand that there will be regional elections and that it is an opportunity to come out here and present some things that, in my opinion, are not as presented. I would start - the opposition here actually ended the government in 2013 and I would go back to the crisis of 2008 and 2011. Mr President Stanjuro, through Mr President, I would just remind you that the RUD for municipalities, VAT, in 2008, 2011 was 21.40 % and you reduced it to 19.93 in 2012. [[He's showing background, charts.]] You took the RUD to the municipalities and the regions back then. We're not taking anybody's RUD. Then we boarded and we increased your reduction from 19.93 first to 20.83, then in 2017 to 21.4 and in 2018 and 2019 to 23.58. VAT and corporate tax, which we increased to 23.58. It's all 23.58 today. So, first of all, we've been increasing what you guys have reduced to the crisis, and it's the same with the regions. You guys cut from 8.92 to 8.29, then to 7.86 by the edges, and we lined it up and returned it to the number you guys cut. And we don't lower any RUDs. As you all know, you finished 2013 and thanks to that, and of course we manage taxpayers' money by collecting good taxes, so since 2013, the regions have been 100 billion compared to the end of 2019. extra crowns. Hundred billion! And the municipalities, and of course, there's a lot of conflict of interest here, except Mrs. Vostrá just reported it, so the municipalities of 2013 had 256 billion when you finished in the government. and 2019 360 billion So they got 104 billion. less than an extra one. So it's important because you know that we actually collected those taxes thanks to the audit report, the EET and the reform of the Financial Administration, so you got a lot of money. A package of money. But not all of them, I admit, the smallest ones have always had problems. And as part of the compensation bonus, yes, and we knew about that, we didn't lower the RUD, but by doing it out of taxes, and according to Secretary Schillerová, it didn't go any different, so it's actually in order here, if I'm looking at it, at the municipalities, 10 billion. loss. I'd just like to remind you that our government financed the rewards of all social services, that's 5.2 billion. We've funded all the ambulances that belong to the county, 1.25. Protective equipment. So we just put 13 billion in the county. So I'd really like you to be objective. And I understand what you're saying, yes, the word subsidy is probably made up in Brussels, or I don't know who invented it, I suppose. And we're the entrance, but I guess it's been, I don't know, it's not important. But, of course, we are interested in the fact that our communities, especially the smallest ones, do not have the means to do this, because, of course, when you look at it, and I agree what has been said here that the smallest ones do not have as much money as Prague, has 79 billion or Brno 7.9 billion, Ostrava 4 billion, Plzeň 3.7 billion, so yes, and it is very good that Mrs Vostrá suggested what she proposed. It is the municipalities of up to 3 000 inhabitants that are 80 per cent, and of course those programmes that we are preparing, such as Mrs Dostálová, Mr Brabec, sewerage, Dešťovka, Mr Toman, and that is, we want to push another 25 billion into the 2020 budget review, and of course those schools will also be doing, Mrs Kovářová through the President, and those schools, I want everyone who is ready to receive money and can invest. And those communities that will not be able to co-finance, so of course we will think about it and look for solutions to help them. And I am convinced that this solution and aid will certainly exceed the amount you are talking about. So I guess there's no contradiction. I think that the motion for a resolution is very good, because it is precisely for the smallest. Paradoxically, the biggest ones always have the most money and they invest as little as possible. So I don't have a problem with that, and if my performance satisfies President Stanjuru, there is no contradiction, and we will certainly do everything we can to prevent the municipalities from stopping investment. There's no reason for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u93	This was the Prime Minister, and now with priority rights the President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura, the rapporteur Tomáš Martínek, and then Miroslav Kalousek reporting. So you signed up for the deed. You raised your hand, so I didn't know. So, please, de facto. However, I still have Mr Stanislav Juránek hanging on to the facts here, but I came later, that was already the case, so the de facto Member Miroslav Kalousek. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, I don't know if you're misinformed or if you're lying on purpose. It doesn't really matter. The reduction in the VAT share in 2012 in the budgetary determination of taxes was not in the context of the crisis. It was in the context of pension reform and the second pillar because the reduced VAT rate was increased as a crucial financial source for financing pension reform. And since pension reform was exclusively a matter of central government, its return went for the central government, and therefore the ratio for municipalities and regions was adjusted parametrically. That's why. You guys canceled the second pillar in 2014, but you kept the high rates. So it's true that as far as the RUD is concerned, you've returned the money to the municipalities and regions. But you keep rubbing people away from them. You're six years late. And now instead of returning the money to the citizens, because you've been stealing from them since 2014, since you canceled the second pillar, every year, so now you want to rob the communities. That's the reality. It's verifiable from verifiable sources.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u95	The President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura will now act with priority rights and the rapporteur Tomáš Martínek will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u96	Thank you for the floor. As part of an objective discussion, I will not argue with the figures and dates of the amendments made by the Prime Minister. But that doesn't solve today's problem. I have asked myself a rhetorical question, which I have answered, and I am no longer sure whether or not the government wants to send the money to the municipalities. The Prime Minister says they invented the word subsidy in Brussels. I'm afraid we invented it ourselves. There are also subsidies in Brussels, and instead - and we both have this critical view of the subsidies, at least that's how I understood it - to avoid the subsidies in this case because we can, we have a simple, elegant solution, so in one performance you say that the subsidies are completely useless, they invented it somewhere in Brussels, and just in three sentences you say it, and excellently, we have a recipe for municipalities and we'll think of subsidies. Don't you feel the difference, Prime Minister? You denied yourself. Why do it complicated? Why do they make subsidies for these communities? Who's gonna write that on those small towns, those grant applications? Go there sometimes to see how many civil servants there are, in municipalities that have 300, 500, 700 citizens. There are no officials to write a request. So if you criticize subsidies - and I agree with you - then why do you want to come up with new grant titles? Why do you keep defending yourself and saying there's gonna be more money in the end! [[raised voice]] So tell me how many there will be. It doesn't have to be a thousand, it could be fifteen hundred per citizen. I don't have a problem with that. We wanted to compensate for the loss, for the compensation bonus to the municipalities, such a complicated sentence. In other words, so that the state actually pays the aid, which is well deserved, and small s. r. o. it does not pay it, the municipalities and regions, as it is so far, so then we can do it very simply and you can do it next week. You can do it to the government. And you can still say, and we'll commend you for that, avoiding unnecessary grant titles. We're not gonna do this as bad as Brussels. But you want to do it the same way. And it doesn't matter if the secretary thinks of a better or worse grant title. It's gonna be unfair, it's gonna be tough, it's gonna be someone else who's gonna be writing the subsidies. Someone will judge them. Then the Financial Administration will have to control them by virtue of its competence. So how much is it going to be? Eighty percent of the municipalities are 3,000 inhabitants, so 0.8 times 6,200. So it's going to be about 5,000 grant applications. Who's gonna go check on them? Who's gonna evaluate them? How fast can it go? That's the solution you're offering. And now imagine that the opposition would come and say, "Dear government, we are proposing a grant title that every community will sign up for." You'll be judging 5,000 requests. We want you to do it quickly. Preferably in a week to send it. Then you would have sent us quite rightly somewhere with such a proposal. And if your secretary thinks of it, you're still defending it, Prime Minister. In order for these votes to be complete, rapporteur, I would read the motion for a resolution for order on the microphone. Then I propose that the first proposal be voted on in a procedural manner, which means CZK 1,100 and CZK 600. I propose that the Chamber of Deputies call on the Government to present a solution by 3 June to compensate for the loss of revenue from the compensation bonus to municipalities and regions amounting to a minimum of CZK 1,000 per citizen of the municipality and CZK 400 per citizen of the region. Three. Six to introduce it. The government really can, if it's willing, make it Monday. I think even without a debate. Feel free to put it in the debate block, you'll have it done in half an hour, and the mayors will be happy. Why do it complicated? I still haven't understood why the grant title. Why don't you make it easy when you say everybody's gonna get it? And to discuss the budgetary determination of taxes - and at that time, I was the lead negotiator for our political party. And it wasn't easy. My party colleague, Mr. Docent Svoboda, was the Mayor of Prague, and by changing RUD Prague, she lost 20 billion in our vote. Roman Onderka was Mayor of Brno in the coalition with ODS. His ODS deputies came to me and said that's how much money do you want to take from Brno? Still, we had the courage to push for it. And today, none of those mayors are calling for a change in their budget allocation. It's been eight years, and we hit it. It was a difficult political compromise. There was no easy debate about it, neither within the government coalition, nor in the Chamber of Deputies, nor within the political parties, because, of course, every mayor wants the most for himself, that is the legitimate effort of every mayor, but we hit it. Ask the mayors. This curve that everyone remembers, U or J, it's gone. We figured it out. We solved the jumps. Today, the mayor doesn't have to accommodate three citizens to overcome the $30,000 limit, as it used to, because then suddenly more was paid for everyone, not just for what was across that border. We've worked all this out, it works, so let's not get involved. We have 10.5 billion here that the municipalities need. The Prime Minister says he wants more. Okay, I'm not gonna compete with you guys, we're gonna need 10.5 billion. Then send them 12 if you want to give more. And make it quick and simple. Next week. Without the grant titles, you'll be worse than in Brussels. Worse. If I look at it politically - yes, maybe in the biggest cities, but Mayor Ostrava is from YES, isn't he? [[Nesroz.]] Do you think he's gonna miss it, the money? The 300 million that would get Ostrava? Do you really think your mayor's gonna miss it? That you're in opposition in Prague, so are we when you won the election. But you can't look at it by looking at who's specifically the mayor in which village. I really can't look at this because that's what the grant titles are for us to choose according to the right political jurisdiction of the mayor. He'll have a nicer application, more colorful, more formally correct, better analytically justified why he's gonna use it right now. What about the other poor guys? They're gonna come in short. And it's not like at the end of the year we're gonna ask each other. It's too late. I really don't understand it, and unfortunately, I've got the impression from the Prime Minister's words that the government wants to pay off the 10.5 billion. If she wants to, make it really easy. Without the subsidies. Show that you are better and more flexible than those you criticize, grant titles. Not that, as you said, Mr. Brabec will come up with one title and Mrs. Dostálová. I'd use that - the minister - but I quote the Prime Minister now, so consider it a quote. And Mrs. Dostálová will think of something. Why, if the Treasury Secretary is able to send it to the 6 250 plus 14 county accounts next week. Why do these ministers have to think of something? What's the point? Except that you want to politically choose who gets and who doesn't. There can be no other justification. Every council can handle it. Let the mayor of ODS, YES, social democracy be there - and now I can name all the parties that are in the House or in the Senate. Then ask yours. And the fact that they have big cities, the way I hear them whispering behind me - yes. So if I talk about my town, is the theatre just for the citizens of a particular city? Doesn't he have a regional function? Don't we all ride the subway? Maybe not everyone, but I drive the subway. Who subsidizes who? Prague. Not stand. And when someone comes to Opava and goes to public transport, they also go for a ticket that the visitor doesn't pay, but Opava and the taxpayers from Opava pay. [[Nesroz.]] And it's so logical. Plus, I say the mayors dealt with it. They've dealt with the budget change, the taxes. So there's no way to keep showing - they have a lot, and they have a lot in their account. So what? That's how they managed better. Maybe he's saving up for some investment. And you're doing good. We commend you for that. But for someone else's money. It's giving out from someone else's. Fives a day, twenty-fives a day... like she said... Twenty-five, says the secretary. But it's not a pětadvacítka-year-old. Marketing uses the ANO movement very morning - 25. But of the 25, 25 percent give the city and nine percent give the county. So it's not true. So bring reality into line, simply send the 10.5 billion, and the problem solved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u97	Mr President, you were merely implying a procedural motion here, but we do not yet know how much the resolution will be. You said something that the first resolution was the first. Now I don't know what.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u98	Thank you. I propose then, when we discuss the procedure, first the proposal - that is, it has already been made. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Okamura: Does that mean Mrs Vostré?]] It did not, so I think the rapporteur will read it, but the first one was heard in the debate, not formally. As the second of our proposals, which I have tabled, and as a third, I would ask for a vote on Mrs Vostrá's proposal. It seems to me in the logic of things. I am prepared to support all three, but I want to have the simplest and most generous one towards the cities, then compromise it, then possibly the proposal made by the KSČM club. I would very much hate to have a vote on the contrary, and the government majority actually made it impossible for each of us to express whether or not we want to send CZK 1,100 or CZK 1,000 to the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u99	Thank you. There's still going to be a vote on that. But just a moment, we need to recap. So Mr Josef Hájek wants to speak with a factual remark, and then with priority rights is Mr Martínek, Mr Jurečka and then the Prime Minister. So the Prime Minister asked me if anyone would mind, if he could respond, but if you don't mind, you'll get off in order. So now two minutes - Mr. Josef Hájek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u100	Good evening. I'll try to be brief. I am responding here to my colleague Stanjura, who said he didn't know any mayor who would be unhappy with the budgetary determination of taxes, so I would invite him on June 15th. The Karvina County Association is holding meetings with the mayors, where all the Members of the Moravian-Silesian Region have been invited, so I assume, Mr President, that you will accept this invitation and hear the views of the mayors of the mining region, which, as in the Karlovy Vary Region, as in the Ústí Region, is facing problems, and you, I presume, know the problems we face or encounter in our region. That's one. Two. I've had a lot of crisis situations in my work life, and the crisis situation is always a challenge. I remember the last regime, and how many were in the last county regime? If I remember correctly, it was seven. Isn't it a call for us to look today - do we need 14 counties or 7? If it worked with seven counties and there were no highways, why can't it work in seven regions today? This is a topic for discussion, let's talk about it and of course we can tell at this point how much it will bring to the savings of officials, how much it will bring to the savings of bureaucracy, etc. So it's a little bit of a glove tossed around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u101	Wait, we have a factual point here, so Mr Martínek will have to wait a while. I will read two apologies, and then the President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club will go to the de facto Member Miroslav Kalousek. So Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková cancels her apology from 19:00 today and between 19:00 and midnight apologises until the end of the day, for family reasons, Mr Jiří Kobza. So now Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura and Mr. Miroslav Kalousek will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u102	The Prime Minister rightly said that we have before the regional elections, so for Mr Hájek through the Vice-President: Advise the Governor Oklešťek to put on his election billboard: we, the Olomouc YES, propose the inclusion of the Olomouc Region under the Moravian-Silesian region, as it was in the previous regime, because we will save. Congratulations! We will be happy if you use such a billboard not only in Olomouc Region, but also in Hradec Králové, Pilsen, Karlovy Vary, Ústí, Liberec, everywhere! [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Go ahead! It doesn't cost you anything here. Then write it down on those billboards! Convince your citizens that the Olomouc Region and Zlinsky should be incorporated back under Moravian-Silesian. I guess we'll be in the Moravian-Silesian region, right? We both are. I remember North Moravian. But I don't know. But I think that's a good idea. I don't know, I don't see Mr. Governor Oklešťek here right now, I don't know exactly which one is his... Tell him, and you'll see if he'll put it on that billboard or not! I don't think so!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u103	Mr Miroslav Kalousek will now make a point of fact and will be prepared by the rapporteur Tomáš Martínek in the general debate. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u104	Only for Mr Hájek as a memorial. The countryside wasn't seven, it was eight. And I was one of those guys who suggested the final number five in the opening discussion. We all know it ended with number 14. I want to assure you, colleague, and I assure anyone else that if we ever open this subject in the future, it can't end with less than 16.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u105	I would now ask Members to address themselves through me. And now, with priority rights, the rapporteur, Tomáš Martínek, will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u106	Thank you for the floor. I would therefore like to read the resolution that has been discussed here for a long time, which we have put together with more sensible Members. Motion for a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies to compensate for the reduction of the tax revenue of municipalities and regions as a result of the payment of the compensatory bonus: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to do 30. 6. 2020 has prepared a proposal for a one-off measure for 2020 which will provide the municipalities with a one-off financial compensation for the loss of income due to a compensatory bonus of at least CZK 1,100 to the municipality and CZK 600 to the region for each resident.' Justification: The compensation bonus currently charged as a return on personal income tax threatens the stability of the budget of self-government, i.e. the municipality, the region and the capital of Prague, is subject to an unexpected decline in income for 2020. [[which:]] This decline in income has not been presented, consulted or duly discussed to the municipalities, regions and capital of Prague and completely undermines the certainty of the entities concerned. It is therefore proposed that, like the current Senate press number 263, a one-off compensation should be granted to municipalities, regions and the capital of Prague from the state budget. Municipalities and regions are currently faced with challenges such as interest-free lending, planned investment and other expenditure needs. For these and other reasons, it is problematic to interfere with expected revenue. The capital city of Prague, according to the Act on the capital city of Prague and further within the meaning of the Act on budgetary determination, is considered as a region and a municipality at the same time, i.e. Prague is responsible for the sum of the two amounts per capita, a total of 1,700 per capita. The financing of self-government has many advantages. First of all, the state borrows at lower interest rates than the government. Self-management often has a more efficient option of investing in prepared projects, which may be important for the recovery of the economy after the end of the measures related to the Coronavirus. Then I would react briefly to what happened in the debate, for example, about the fact that such a level playing field might not be fair. On the contrary, since the amount per capita is fixed here regardless of the size of the city, this resolution is primarily helping the smallest, because they receive more than they normally receive from the budgetary determination of taxes. So this is very friendly, very friendly for the smaller communities. In addition, I would add that according to our calculations, for example, even if this resolution were adopted and implemented, the capital city of Prague would still have paid about a billion. So I don't think that's anything that would be against us throwing sticks at villages, cities, and others. I think that there are a lot of reasonable Members here who know that the projects that the municipalities have prepared and the financing of municipalities is so important that I think that they should support it and allow these projects to be implemented rather than by some subsidy programme, some form of bear, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u107	I would ask Members what they read here in the general debate of the resolution in order to at least sign up to it, if they did not repeat it, in a detailed debate. Yes? In a detailed debate, it is necessary to make a minimum declaration. So now, with priority rights, Mr Marian Jurečka and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš will prepare himself. So far, the last two applications I have here. [[Messenger. Merry also informs the application.]] Priority? Po? In the general debate. Because otherwise, you still have the right to the final word. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u108	Thank you. Mr President, I must say that we certainly do not want to go anywhere under Ostrava in Olomouc, we are clear on that. What we can decide about Haná, we'll be happy to make that decision. But I'd follow up on the Prime Minister here. When he wasn't here, I mentioned his personal quote, which he said about a month and a half ago: "The Ministry and the Government will by no means propose any adjustment to the budgetary determination of taxes to the detriment of local authorities," which is true so far. "Citizens and regions do not have to worry about their legal income," which is no longer true. That's what we're having this debate about. And it's not true that this place wasn't alerted two weeks ago. It pointed out that there was an amendment, and so I am on behalf of the mayors, and the KDU-ČSL has the most municipal politicians in the country, the most mayors and vice-mayors, so, Prime Minister, I ask, when the sentence of "the municipality and the region does not have to worry about its law given revenue" came out here a month and a half ago from your mouth, what is the guarantee that when it was said from your mouth that it would somehow be equal by the subsidies, so how is it done? [[19.00 hours]] And I have some more questions. Specifically, if you perform, you could answer, please, nicely. I don't know a donation from any ministry that doesn't have co-financing. Every subsidy the ministries give has co-financing. So please try to tell me nicely, and especially the mayors, where the subsidy you're going to be giving, and where it's basically co-financing, where those cities, the municipalities can take the funds they're taking now. And by the way, I don't feel like I'm in a conflict of interest. I'm not in the local council. But I'm defending the community. I live there. I am a Member who defends his region and defends the interests of the citizens of this country. It's not a conflict of interest. Is the next time we vote on water and sewer laws or city and village laws, are we going to report conflicts of interest here? And let's just take a look at the sums when the invitation to Karviné came out. Then, Mr. Hájek, in Karvina, take care of this compensation bonus, if it is not resolved, it is less than CZK 44 million for Karvina City alone. For the city of Ostrava it is minus CZK 420 million. For the city of Olomouc, once again I am not in conflict of interest, there is the mayor for the movement YES, it is minus CZK 92 million. In Olomouc, at this point, they suspended an investment project to extend the tram line, which is intended to finance urban budgets only 15 percent. Even so, the city isn't up to it, and this project is being suspended for the time being. And I could go on like this. It is a city that, for example, costs CZK 230 million for the theatre and the Philharmonic. As the only city in the country. And I don't live in that town, but I'm in that region. But at least even if I weren't from the region, I don't care what impact it will have on this city. Well, I'm sure you can find the solution here. That we don't have to look through complicated grant titles, which will mean more and more numbers of administration. So please try to take your senses to the hand and find a simple solution. It is either that the Senate proposal, the Senate refund proposal, or that option of CZK 1,000 or CZK 1,100 per capita in the municipality and CZK 400 or CZK 500 per regional population will be supported. But please, nicely, I say this as a population of a small community, let's not make a difference between whether it's a community of up to 3,000 inhabitants or over 3,000 inhabitants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u109	I will now request the speech of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and the plaintiff Mr Ondřej Veselý will prepare himself. Well, Prime Minister, you have the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u110	So thank you for your word. Well, I don't get along very often here, because I always get the impression that it's actually pointless. Because you asked me to get out, I got out, I mean very specifically. [[He's speaking to Mr. Jurecek.]] And what you're doing here is absolutely unbelievable. So you're actually saying that the subsidy systems for the schools that Mrs. Kovářová here gave me that tip in November 2013, when Kalousek didn't want to give her the money. And in June 2014, I started this program for schools, 4 billion, about 200 municipalities. And that kindergarten we sold out in a minute in September 2008. So we're not supposed to do this anymore, kindergarten, school, sidewalks, or Dešťovka? Not even the boiler subsidies? We're gonna cancel all this now. We're not gonna do any funding. Yeah? So the RUD that hasn't changed, we're going to take 10 billion divided by 6.5 thousand. How much is that? A million seven hundred thousand? We're gonna give each one a million seven hundred thousand? They'll get it on the books. That's it, that's your solution. Yeah? Is that your solution? [[From Members on the right: No.]] You're a normal demagogist, like. You didn't even listen to what I said here, like. We have prepared money for overhangs, Mr President, through Mr President. Overhangs. Do you know what an overhang is? That's demand. Demand. And there was no money for that. And I have clearly told Secretary Schillerová and all the ministers to put what they need on the table. Minister Toman, Brabec. Two and a half billion for sewers. Let's cancel. We're not gonna give them the sewers, the little ones. No? We won't. Or how do you imagine it? I don't understand. So we're going to cancel all the grant titles historically that were here. You're actually saying we're not giving them anything. Each community gets a million seven hundred thousand, and that's OK. That's it, that's it, that's it, okay? Well, I mean, when we talk about the rations, about the RUD, well, we've got some historical special coefficients here. Remember those coefficients? One resident? Prague 43,000 crowns. Ostrava, Plzeň, Brno 25,000 crowns, you have a conflict of interest there, don't you? And the other 14 grand. Those poor guys. Greetings to the mayor of Germans, which has 208 inhabitants. That guy has a budget of two and a half million. He's got an apartment for three and a half and a footbridge. He's got $50 million worth of projects. So they need help, you little one, not the big one. I Hřib when he'll finally start doing something in Prague. Even the bypass of Prague is blocking us. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Because I already wrote him a letter, but it's futile, of course. ŘSD buys out the bypass, Mr President, Mr President, the President of a traditional democratic party that you have not built. Then we'd like to build it around the Prague. But ŘSD buys out 500 crowns for a thousand. And the foal gives 200. Well, who would sell it to him? Well, no one's gonna sell it to him. So it would be good if he did at least that, no, he's got 80 billion in his account. teďka he's created those three restaurants over there on the waterfront, like a new discovery, no. So why should we give Prague a million seven hundred thousand, right? We're not giving them. Or Brno doesn't need it either. He's got a lot of money in his account, too. So the ten billion you're claiming here, we'll give it to you. But as Mrs. Vostrá here has read it, for the little ones up to 3,000 inhabitants. Because they don't have money. The big ones have money. And they're not even able to spend it. They're not. So even the coefficients aren't fair. So it's pointless to actually perform here. You're professional speakers here, congratulations, I admire you, I couldn't do it. I couldn't manipulate and bullshit people like that. [[Loud laughter and applause from the right.]] I'm serious, sir. And Kalousek, he's even better, he's lying like he's printing, isn't he? And he lowered the RUD, he lowered it. He took the money. And when there was a crisis, you still arrived. You took money from everyone, seniors, civil servants. We don't take money, we're throwing money into people before the crisis, before the virus came. They got a lot of money. Average wage of 39,000 civil servants. Even the teachers got it. And the seniors got it. They all did. And they'll get the communities. So we didn't lower the RUD. And subsidies, please, if you don't know how the subsidies work, Mrs. Dostálová will give you training. Even Brabec, Toman and Mrs. Kovářová will give you training because Mrs. Kovářová knows how it works. And I'm rooting for her, that's my favorite MP. And she wants those schools and kindergartens, and so do I, Mrs. Kovářová. Yesterday I wrote to all the ministers because we have so divided, Dostálová, Schillerová, Plaga, yeah, to write down all the schools and kindergartens that have building permits. And Mrs. Schillerová will be looking for money. So I'm sure you agree with me that the system is good, right? You brought him in, Kalousek didn't want to give you the money, I have the money now, I gave it, we open it together, you always talk there, you're happy, me too. [[Laughs in the hall.]] So enlighten Mr., I don't know, you're still in the oven? You're not? You're already in STAN. But that's okay. So try to teach this fellow here what the subsidies are for. And we support that, they get the little ones, don't we? You agree, you're sure? Well. So I'm asking you, like, 10 billion instead of splitting it up, that everyone gets a million seven hundred, so based on the way Mrs. Vostrá read it, I think we all want to support it, the smallest ones, we're focusing on replacing the 10 billion and giving them even more and more funding for it. So thank you for understanding. I hope you understand. And I'm not gonna perform anymore, because I understand that you're gonna perform now... and it's actually kind of pointless, so... Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u111	Now, I'd like to recapitulate the performers so they don't lose track. So I have four MPs here on factual points. I will name you quickly: Stanjura, Výborný, Kalousek, Kovářová. In addition, Mr Ivan Bartoš and Mr TOP 09 Adamová Pekarová signed up with priority rights before the appellant. Then there is the plaintiff, Mr Ondřej Veselý. So let's go with the de facto, Mr Stanjura, two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u112	I really believe Andrej Babiš knows the subsidy system. I agree. Tesate in stone subsidies for the little ones. Yesterday, the government decided to sue that this tiny company, Agrofert, didn't get four-tenths of their annual subsidies. About $2 billion, I'm getting from your former firm's annual report, as you like to say. That's the little company that's got. [[unintelligible]] The Prime Minister doesn't really understand Czech. We're going to say that each community is going to get by the population, and he's going to divide that amount by the number of municipalities. Because the Prime Minister believes that there are 6,200 municipalities in the Czech Republic and each has the same population. Then his argument would be logical. We said according to the population. So the mayor would get 208 grand next week that you were talking about. I'm sure he could do better than you, Prime Minister. And you don't want to send them to him. So this is simple mathematically. Not by the number of municipalities, but by the population. I've said before, let's not judge by specific mayors and mayors that we like more than no, or less. It's just pointless to explain to the Prime Minister. He says it's useless to perform, but he doesn't understand. I didn't propose to cancel all the grant titles. I said don't bring new ones to the 10.5 billion. And you, as the fairy tales of a sheep's grandmother begin completely with something else, and your MPs are still applauding you. They don't listen to us. According to the population, dividing by 10.5 billion is not a number of municipalities, Prime Minister. That's mathematically different. And I'm sure you're more of a grant expert than I am. I'm the one who's admitting it. But stick to the practical policy of getting the little ones. Imagine what is the other position of the Czech Republic for the next programming period? Don't let the big guys lose their funding. Says the Prime Minister who says, "We mainly want to do the little ones." That's how it works. So the irony is completely unnecessary from the Prime Minister. [[Attention on time.]] I reacted perfectly calmly, in a matter of fact. [[Time!]] And I wanted it to happen by number - I know - by population. [[Time!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u113	So please keep up the time. One short sentence, yes, but no more continuous sentences. Please. [[Laughter and entertainment in the hall.]] Two minutes, sorry. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u114	I'm glad. Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, I confess that I do not want to assess whether your performance is worth this House, or whether it is more likely to be coming to some 4th prize group. It bothers me how ironically you turn to some colleagues here, including from other political parties. But I have to say, if there's something you're a master of, when a colleague of Stanjura here compliments you for understanding grant policy, that's one more thing, and that's creating a smokescreen. You can do that quite brilliantly. We're talking about a compensatory bonus here, we're talking about the impact on the budgets of municipalities, towns and regions, and you're going to divert it to somewhere else, to how well you're giving subsidies to the municipalities, or to the budgetary determination of taxes. But that's really not what this debate is about. We've been calling you here for four hours to come to the counter, say to the two microphones here: tomorrow the government will send the money that the community, the county, the city, will lose. It's doing some -- it's been falling over and over again -- 15 billion. We're gonna approve tomorrow, and we're out of here. It's that simple. So simple. And you guys are gonna start misconstruing that grant policy, as your ministers do well, etc. Alternatively, you will start running into the budgetary determination of taxes. That's really not what this is about. Come here, confirm: Yes, municipalities, cities get it and they can handle it. Of course, this does not affect any other grant policy at all. Of course, the small municipalities will benefit from the subsidies, and the others will. We're talking about compensation for the bonus. It's a bit of a pun, but it's true. Come here, say it, let's get out of here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u115	So now Mr Miroslav Kalousek will speak on the point of fact and Mrs Věra Kovářová will prepare herself. Please, you have two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u116	Thank you for the floor. Not that you're not funny, Prime Minister. And what is desperate is that this is how the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic actually speaks and argues. You were talking about something completely different from us. I'll try it again just in case. The budget of each municipality, its revenue, consists of two parts. The first part is its own autonomous income from local fees, their management and, above all, shared taxes. There's three of those shared taxes. VAT, corporate tax, personal income tax. And that's their autonomous income. In addition, of course, each municipality is applying for some subsidies where, as we all know, there is overhang and there will always be overhangs, because there will always be overhangs of demand over supply, as is the case with budget money. And we didn't say anything about shutting down the subsidy system for those communities, the other part of their income. But we fundamentally object to you taking the first part of the autonomous income from the shared taxes and turning it into a grant title. Because even if you did it fair and returned to those communities what you took, you did nothing but strengthen central control over democratically elected authorities above a bearable level. Just don't touch the village's autonomous income! As far as grant policy is concerned, there will always be an overhang in demand over supply. There's nothing we can do about it. But you're taking away their autonomous income, so, for God's sakes, let's face it! You're talking about something else!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u117	So I will now ask for a speech on the factual remark made by Mrs Věra Kovářová and the President of Pirates Ivan Bartoš will be prepared in the general debate. Please, your two minutes, you have the floor, Madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u118	Dear Prime Minister, we have heard -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u119	And I beg you to remain calm!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u120	We've heard many times here that you don't want to do politics. Don't you want to do politics? Well, we do, because politics is a service for people. But whatever you can do, it's demagogy. You say it's useless to talk here. You didn't have to talk too much. All you had to do was say two sentences. We will give the people, each community per inhabitants of 1000 crowns, a region of 400 crowns per capita, we will send it then and then, and you could have ended. And I apologize to my colleagues, but I have to warm up the soup with the schools. So I wonder how much you're gonna put on those schools. We gave you a list, you don't have to find any more schools and kindergartens for $9 billion, so you can use it. This year, however, you did not approve 300 million for kindergartens or schools, because, as your fellow Members from the MPs said, and you yourself said, it would ruin the budget. So, please, nicely, how are you going to put more money on the school now? If you decide that's not the case and that you're willing to ruin the school budget, and kindergarten, I'll just back it up. Because schools and kindergartens, it's not for me or you, but it's for the citizens, for their children, for their parents, they have nowhere to put children. So, Prime Minister, I hope you'll be here at the interceptions to discuss this with me publicly about what's going to happen with the schools and kindergartens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u121	I will now request the performance of Chairman of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš. And I'll only read the order before the chairman arrives. So then will be followed by President Adamová Pekarová, President Rakušan and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. There you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to Prime Minister Babiš's performance on several levels. I've had the opportunity to talk to some diplomats who are in the Czech Republic looking at the big numbers and saying, "Hey, and you're handling it pretty well. Yeah, it looks good on the outside. Why? Because the burden that arose from a difficult period of coronation is simply being distributed to all the other floors, which then bear the financial burden, while Prime Minister Babiš may say, "We did it all." [[19.20 hours]] A lot of questions about managing the crisis are that one citizen owes other citizens, one owes some rent somewhere, someone gets laid off, and eventually everyone pays. And the Prime Minister will be able to say, we did the whole thing. And in this way, where it is actually said that the ministries will have some grant titles, which they will virtually return to the community the money they are taking from this proposal, can what be said? We put money in there, we put money in there. Ministers will be able to perform and say: we have invented a great program for construction. I was just approving some of the results from the Ministry of Regional Development on the Public Administration Committee, and there were representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development, and we were talking about how many of the construction contracts were concluded last year. Now they're pouring in some money. What's the problem, why can't these communities process it? Because it is difficult and construction is quite large projects, i.e. investment, and even there the applications are not easily processed in the direction of grant titles. That's why we're here for direct help and we support the Senate version because it's really not a question of individual ministers performing on press releases with various marketing passwords The 25th, construction and ANO movement were doing here through their ministers - or some of them are not members of the movement - a big show to give money back to the administration. Because it's nothing but the press releases and the presentation of the government ministers of Andrej Babiš. And the second thing, and if you'll excuse me, I might even pick up some previous speakers. I have never believed in my life that, as a relatively young person who likes fun and who is not a cracker, I will try my best to educate a little of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, at this point Prime Minister Babiš. I can handle someone being a good speaker and having a good form. Or maybe he's not a good speaker, but his speech has some content. One entertains us, the other instructs us. So I didn't see the Prime Minister's form or content. I don't understand how the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic can, like, casually, lean on a table here, and talk to the MPs like that, throwing nonsense here, kicking Prague around, kicking the mayor. I've been thinking - I did a bit of Mr. Ferjenčík's stand here last time, because we have been experiencing the behavior of the ministers of the Government of Andrej Babiš quite often. Do you have any special courses for this, do you train it in any way? I say the content, okay. But I just don't understand how the Prime Minister can talk to the MPs in this way, playing some kind of hobo in here. First of all, it is taxpayers' money. It's not the government. Money on the edge, money in the municipalities. This was earned by citizens and companies in the Czech Republic. Please, Prime Minister, behave in this Chamber of Deputies - even if you don't want to perform here - at least politely, keep that form. And I'm really concerned that I'm the one who has to say it. But I didn't see anybody walking into a plane like this just like this, like, witty and insulting behavior. It's unimaginable!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u123	I will now ask for the speech of the President of the TOP 09 to Mrs Adamová Pekarová and Mr Vít Rakušan will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u124	Thank you for the floor. Maybe I'll just pick up on the previous speaker that even the content was quite competitive with a certain Milouš Jakeš. At least it reminded me quite clearly. And I would also like to respond to the demagogy that has been made here from the Prime Minister's mouth, by the challenge itself, by a joint challenge to the government, which you must have received, Prime Minister, where, along with you, the Mayor of Prague, Mr Hřib, is signed by the captain for the YES movement. So it is Mr. Bohumil Šimek. Well, you can also explain that by the way you described it to us and where you totally mixed what you could mix, pears and apples, and you put on the arrogance that you literally had. I don't think it deserves not only the representatives of the municipalities, the mayors, all those who are engaged in municipal policy, but especially the citizens of all the municipalities and regions that you're showing up here will be particularly deserving of. They won't be able to send children to the repaired schools, they won't be able to walk on the repaired pavements. And those businessmen and companies that would get jobs through these investments won't get it. Go explain it like that. Simply, that's just how it's gonna be, that's how it's gonna go down. If you don't actually come here with a specific compensation that goes to everyone no matter how you sleep or how you like it, or who's more inclined to you or who's more inclined to crawl into one part of the body, but the one where you actually lose the money should get it, too. And don't show off this incredible arrogance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u125	And now I will ask Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to speak to President STAN Vít Rakušan and prepare himself. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u126	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm really gonna try this very simply. You first told us, Prime Minister, that we are the professional speakers. Well, you've proven that you're certainly not a professional speaker. But you've shown us - and you've been showing us this for a long time - that you're a professional demagogues, probably with Mr. Prchal on your mobile phone, and you're doing really well. But you've proven to us that you're not even a professional prime minister. You don't understand. Or maybe you're pretending you don't understand. And I'm going to try to appeal to your party colleagues here if they're not afraid of your authority, so that the mayors and the authorities can explain to you what the city's income is and what the towns and municipalities are running with. I'm an ex-Chantor and former mayor, so I'm gonna try it very graphically and didactically. There's two piles. One of those piles is shared taxes, the income that comes from the law. From that pile, we invest in those cities - because we have a government - what we want to invest, what we promised our voters, what we won the election for in our programs. And that's the money you want to touch. And then there's the second pile, they're subsidies. Administratively extremely demanding, small communities are barely able to handle it. And you're saying completely ridiculously: we're going to touch one pile for you to put into the other pile. And the other pile is much more complicated to draw money, and in the other pile, you, as a government, will tell us what to put the money on. Because you're gonna write those grant titles on something. And you're not gonna let us draw and invest the money in what we see fit. I don't know if I can explain it any easier. If your fellow party members are so afraid of you, ask the designated captain Šimek or the mayors sitting here or the captains you have enough. By the way, the vote among the captains - nine out of the 14 captains, including, for example, the captain behind the KSČM, says the same thing we say here in the House. You're touching our money, and you're going to create a lot more inequality in society than you've ever been. You stop local investment, stop money for local businessmen, stop projects that have a building permit issued. We're not even talking about the kindergarten for Mrs. Kovářová, who's never been to the TOP 09, she's always been to the starosta and Independents. This is where we talk about the fact that we want to have, as cities, municipalities and regions in the Czech Republic, the money that belongs to us by law and when we will freely decide where to invest it without you telling us: you will put it here, here, here, or here. This is the principle of administratively complex subsidies. And since you're taking the mayors of small villages into your mouth, go to those small towns and ask how many officials they have to administer other subsidies. The administration of these European subsidies is already taking away most of their working time. And you're gonna add more funding. For God's sake, leave them the money that belongs to them according to their budget tax determination, they'll deal with it, it's easier, and don't give them any new grant titles. I don't know if I explained it well because you were talking about something else in that previous speech. Marketing's good, Prchal's happy. But it didn't really suck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u127	Now, on the point of fact, Mr Jan Volný, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš will be prepared. Please have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u128	I'll be very brief. Only when I hear a colleague here is there again an appeal to cancel subsidies for small communities because no one knows how to do that. Please, I only took the floor because I wanted to respond to Mr Bartoš's performance. I am sorry that it left him cold - or was not here - a performance by my colleague Gazdík, when he insulted our minister here with more than a loud voice in ecstasy and made completely senseless arguments. Those weren't arguments, that was just ecstasy, and he was trying to prove something. This has left you cold through Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u129	Now, on the point of fact, Mr Václav Klaus, so far the last one applied to the factual one. The Prime Minister is still ready. Please, Ambassador, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, I would say our position. I'm sitting here on the bench like an oukropek, waiting to cut my taxes and cancel my property tax. Instead, you've been arguing for three hours or five hours about something where everyone who speaks nicely has already spoken. I'm not even a House teacher here to judge who speaks nicely and who doesn't. Everyone has given their opinion, and then it is decided by the number of Members. We'll be back here by midnight, and one positive thing awaits us, and that's the start of the real estate tax removal. I'm very excited about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u131	The Prime Minister Andrej Babiš will now appear. Please, you have the floor. Then the plaintiff Ondřej Veselý. Otherwise, I don't have another application yet. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u132	I apologize to Mr. Klaus. I don't get to perform here often, you know I don't even come here much, so -- so I'm having fun today, like, so I'm sorry. [[He's laughing.]] Let's start with the taxes. We have reduced taxes in the range of 140 billion since 2014. and on we go, tax on acquisition. Well, there's the difference between you and us that you made promises, ODS, we cut taxes, you raised VAT. You always do it the other way around, even the super gross wage. It's such a scam. First it's equal to tax, then it's super gross pay. So the acquisition tax, yes, that's definitely an important thing, because new buildings don't have the acquisition tax, I don't know why, and old buildings have it, so we want to change that. Well, the taxes - I won't be long - so as it was said, I can't talk. The teacher, Mr. Rakušan, says I can't. Well, everybody knows that. And I'm not a professional. That's right. I'm not in politics for money, I send everything to singles. And the kindergarten, well, I actually organized the kindergarten for Mr. Farský in Semily. They're gonna have a nice 90 million-dollar kindergarten there, I think we organized it. We're organizing Drahelčice now, Mrs. Kovářová. I'll be there in 60. And even now, mayor, she's got five kids, and she wanted at least one kid to go to that kindergarten, so last thing, I guess. And school. So we're doing it all. And I forgot to say that if there was a crisis, and if you're fighting for that government, then why did you take away their public administration contribution by 16.5 percent in 2011, by 1.9 billion?? We've been increasing the contribution. In 2017 9 %, 2018 5 %, 2019 10 %, five, 2.7 billion. We gave extra. Well. So I don't know who - I didn't insult anyone, I'm sorry. I don't know how to talk, you all say that, I may be able to do other things, unlike you guys, so I don't think I'm good at talking, I'm talking the way I've learned it. It is a škoda that Mr. Bartoš did not comment on the Prague bypass, that why your mayor, when he is 79 billion, blocks the Prague bypass. Dear citizen, the Mayor of Prague is blocking Prague bypass. And he's doing everything he can to make sure the bypass isn't. Well. And, Prime Minister Stanjur, now I understand how you want it, I've done the math. I understand that Prague, Brno, Ostrava, Plzeň have 2,150,000 inhabitants. These four cities have 94 billion in their accounts. And now you want to give them more than 2 billion. Great. So actually -- and the little ones, they get nothing. So actually the biggest ones have money in their accounts, why they don't invest, I don't know, Prague, bypass Prague, and actually now you've calculated it by the population, so those who don't really need it, so they're getting the money, so now I understand that the 10 billion that they've come about by saying - you're actually saying that we don't have to give the self-employed people the money that we're not giving them, because they're also taxpayers, and we're just paying them back, so now I understand that, according to the population, it would be the biggest cities that have the biggest coefficients, so they would get 2.2 billion. and the others probably didn't. Well, I think it would be fairer for us to stay with the changeling, and I'm telling you here, of course, we're gonna deliver the money, except for the subsidies, yes. So I'm repeating myself, so maybe I've already explained it, I've understood your calculation, so I'm sure we're aware of it, but we don't want it like that, and we want to support it, just the smallest ones who don't have it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u133	Now I'm gonna do a little recap because you can't see on the board. I have six factual points here. I will read the order for Members to find out who will come next: Mrs Kovářová, Mrs Fiala, Martínek, Stanjura, Čižinský, Onderka. I will now ask for a speech on the factual remark made by Mrs Věra Kovářová and the Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala, will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u134	Let me respond to the Prime Minister's speech, who keeps repeating how he arranged money for a kindergarten in Semily. How could you do that, Prime Minister? After all, this kindergarten was funded by European Union funds. So you spoke to the Commission's evaluation and the selection committee? And for Mr. Volný, who was upset with Mr. Gazdík here. That's how it's done. And live. This is done by your Prime Minister, through Mr President, and the Prime Minister is in the lead role, so forgive the bad remarks made to colleagues who are right in their own way, because the Prime Minister will confirm it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u135	Mr. Tomáš Martínek will now speak on the point of fact of the Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u136	Thank you. She is, Prime Minister, still the same figure of speech, which means when you're talking about something your government is doing and what needs to be done now, you're turning to the past. I am seriously thinking of holding a seminar somewhere on academic grounds where we will discuss the history of Czech politics between 2008 and 2013. I'll invite you there, because I'm sure you'll be performing there with a very interesting speech. But the history you're always going back to here, the people who are now dealing with the problems of the Corona crisis, the municipalities and the regions, it's just not gonna help them at all. And you're not a historian, you're - and maybe amateur, and I'm not questioning it, and maybe you're great at it - but you're the Prime Minister of the Czech Government and you're here to offer solutions, and that's not what you're offering. And we've been pushing you here for three and a half hours to say a solution to the government to promise that municipalities and regions will get money and that it will be money that will serve people, because municipalities will be better able to do better than you in your eight-billion-dollar investment list of municipalities, they will be better and more effectively able to spend that money on investments that really will serve people. But we're not gonna get that from you. And let me give you an example of what your demagogy looks like. Super gross wages. Everyone saw it. A lot of people saw it when we were together in Václav Moravka's questions. I offered you a handshake and a contract to make a commitment to cancel this year's super gross wage together. We've got enough votes for this. And what did you do? Well, you just turned it down. So don't tell us stories here, and you better promise as Prime Minister that you will do something for communities and regions, which means for citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u137	I'll read one apology. Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologises between 19.30 and 23.00 until the end of today's meeting, which may be until midnight, for family reasons. Mr Tomáš Martínek will now prepare the President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u138	Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you, through Mr President, not to lie at least here on the House floor. If you have listened to the proposal that we have quoted here, there is clearly 1,100 per resident of the village, 600 per resident of the region, per resident of the region. So if you're saying that the little ones aren't getting anything, that's not true. Everyone, on the contrary, gets the same, it's totally fair to me. And on the other hand, the little ones get more than normal, because it's significantly better than the RUD for the small municipalities, it doesn't favour anyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u139	So now the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura will perform and Mr Jan Čižinský will prepare himself. So please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u140	I am so glad that after four hours, the Prime Minister understood the proposal of CZK 1,000 per head, so Mr Martínek has already said it, which means that for those small municipalities there would be over 8 billion per population. And the mayors of the cities don't envy it. I don't think they're gonna point to the mayor next door, who has a larger population of 300, that he's got CZK 300,000 more. But the Prime Minister acts as if he came to that government yesterday. - The coefficients in the RUD, it's terrible, unfair! - How long has the YES movement been in the Ministry of Finance with the RUD? Seven years, Prime Minister! What did you do with the RUD coefficients? Nothing! Neither you nor Minister Pilný nor Minister Schillerová. You didn't do anything. So I could go on with everything you're criticizing here. Cancellation of property acquisition tax. Five times the government's position was opposition, opposition, sharp disagreement, so that today - a key point - Mr Chvojka said - we must discuss this today! You didn't do anything, either. Five years. Then I could go on. So just send the 10.5 billion or say it, and that's also a political position that you're not going to give it to those cities and municipalities! But you're just squirming. You don't really want to send it. Because if you want to send it, you'll do it next week! Or together, we will prepare a law on compensation bonus to municipalities, which will compensate for failure due to compensation bonus of CFI or small s. r. o. The title already says how absurd it is. But you're pushing us into it. The senate colleagues have actually prepared it, and within a month, we have the bill here. So we don't have to make a new law, we can deal with it very quickly by executive decision of the government. And if you, Prime Minister, don't like the RUD coefficients, I warn you before, but if you don't like them, do something after seven years with those coefficients! Otherwise, don't mention it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u141	So I will now ask Mr Jan Čižinský to speak and Mr Roman Onderka will be the last to prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u142	Thank you for the floor. From the Prime Minister's mouth there was a lie about Prague and it needs to be pointed out. So I want to reassure the House that it is not that someone in Prague is blocking the circuit, that it is exactly the opposite. Mr. Director of Transportation Adam Šajner, one of the best managers who has ever been in charge of transport in Prague. The circuit's underway. If the Prime Minister wants to, or someone from the government, he can make an appointment with the Deputy Minister, he'll show him all of it. So it would really be very sad if there were such lies that someone in Prague was blocking the circuit, they sounded.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u143	Mr Roman Onderka will be the last to speak and Mr Ondřej Veselý will be prepared. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u144	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, for the second time now, you are probably saying what billions of these large cities in the Czech Republic have in their accounts, how little the small communities have money. Well, maybe it's because there's a little more citizens in these big cities than in the small ones. Perhaps it is because in those large cities they provide employment, sports activities, cultural activities, health care and education, which in a way partially subsumes either the regions or the state. You may have missed that perhaps the second largest city in the Czech Republic, although I like to say it most, Prague will forgive me because Prague is in the region's system, it also provides health care because it is the owner of a health facility, because Brno is the owner of several cultural establishments such as museums and theatres, because the city of Brno is the founder of e.g. financial contributions and pre-school and school facilities. And from this point of view, we need to look at it. And to develop a mood here in that there should be some envy or inequality between citizens of small and large communities, I would warn you very much about this. We may be able to divide citizens in the Czech Republic with a policy, a view that we have on life and on what is happening on our mother Earth, but certainly not in what money they receive and who is drawing it. When you come to Brno to the theatre and sit in the theatre on any seat in any theatre setting up the city of Brno, remember my words. There is a thousand crowns in the seat of the statutory city of Brno. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u145	Now, with a factual remark, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, so far the last factual one. And then Mr Ondřej Veselý will be prepared in a general debate with a proper application. So please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u146	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleague, Mr Roman Onderka, through Mr President, I confess that your idea of the Prime Minister sitting in a theatre seat made me laugh. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. I wanted to say that I agree with your speech and that the outrages that the Prime Minister here says, but above all, in social reality, he can put into social reality because he has your support. So deny him the support, and hopefully someone more reasonable will finally begin to rule here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u147	So now two more factual points have come up. So, Mr Stanislav Blaha and Mr Patrik Nacher. So, Mr. Stanislav Blaha, you have two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u148	Thank you, Mr President. I've been fighting such temptation here for a long time, and I couldn't stop myself from asking the Prime Minister a question. I am very interested, Prime Minister, in what you consider fair in supporting communities to 3,000 inhabitants and not all others. I don't see any justice in this, and I'll describe it to you on a classic case like this. I am the mayor of the city of Uherské Hradiště, which has 25 thousand inhabitants. And we, among other things, also carry out regional functions in many ways, because we have a large space area, establish the Slovak Theatre in Uherské Hradiště. After the disappearance of the district authorities in 2003 and the 25,000th city today, we have received it from its contribution organization, which has a significant regional character, subsidized its budget by more than CZK 30 million. Why did we do this in 2003? It's madness for such a small town to set up a permanent stone theatre scene. Well, because we had a promise from the state to cover it up from the state budget. The state forgot about it in time, and every year I fight to help our city. I'm losing $30 million, now I'm gonna lose another $20 million due to the compensation bonus, that's $50 million that's gonna be missing from investment. And you're here to tell us that it's fair to support a community of 3,000 inhabitants. You think that's fair? I didn't. And I'm asking you to respond to this ascent of mine so I can hear the answer from you where the justice is, and if the state is even able to help our city because when I turn to the edge, they say - well, you're crazy to finance it, but we're not going to help you do it, contact the state. The Ministry of Culture has done nothing in this regard, and I am simply fighting every year to bring back the city of Uherské Hradiště in the budget of 30 million. And it's just a futile struggle, it's a struggle with windmills, and you're here to talk about 3,000 and smaller cities. [[Time warning]] I just can't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u149	Mr Patrik Nacher will now make a point of fact and Mr Martin Baxa will be prepared. I've got two applications so far. There you go. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good evening. I didn't want to talk at this point, confess, but a colleague of Čižinský picked me up a little bit, he probably expected it when he said Adam Šajner was the best manager. So I would say that the most visible thing so far is the unorthodox closure of Smetanův's embankment, and as I learned today, the painting of the cycle rod on the D5 at the Rozvadov junction. So I'm taking the challenge and I'm happy to listen to what this coalition in Prague has done for the city circuit and how it participates in the outside Prague. I thank my colleague Čižinský and hope that he will support it as agilely as he speaks here and at the Prague Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u151	Mr Martin Baxa will now appear, so far the last application for a factual one, so he will then prepare and is still prepared by Mr Ondřej Veselý. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u152	Mr Vice-President, during this afternoon's debate here, I think twice or three times the name of my city, where I am the Mayor of the city of Pilsen, and I take it as such folklore, but folklore is not nice, public debate in our country when we talk about budgetary determination of taxes, that big and smaller, that big cities, towns of central and village are opposed. It's been here since forever, the amendment to the Tax Budget Act sort of solved the disparities a little bit. But I must now respond, Prime Minister, to what you mentioned in your last post, where you said that we have, these big cities, so-called billions in accounts, and that we are not investing. Prime Minister, you're always basing yourself on saying that you have an overview of what's going on, you're fencing numbers, you're giving specific data, so here I want to tell you that you've told a clear lie. Just our cities - I suppose my colleagues will confirm it to me, or if not my colleagues, I will say it at least for the city of Plzeň - we have no so-called free billions in our accounts, and that, Prime Minister, is because our city has always invested year after year. And among other things, Prime Minister, we are investing in an infrastructure that is urgently needed by all those who go to our city, as well as all those big cities. We are building a large transport company, which is used every day by hundreds of thousands of people moving around our city, not only citizens of the city of Pilsen, but also those arriving for work, university students, secondary school students. We invest in our waterworks, which supplies water to the surrounding area, and so on. Maybe, Prime Minister, you don't know these particular investments, but what you should know is how big cities work, how urban agglomerations work, and don't say that big cities just take money and don't do anything, while small communities don't have money. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I wish the small municipalities money is important, but I want to say that without the infrastructure of large cities, we could not function well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u153	The plaintiff Ondřej Veselý will now speak. You've got an hour, two. Please. You're the last performer so far. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u154	Thank you, Mr President. I'll use it if I'm last, as a final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u155	You'll get the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u156	That's for sure, but I might not have to perform after that. I'd say the debate was fruitful. Of course, there are great contradictions, but what we agree on is that we want to help both the CFI and the small s. r. o. within the framework of the compensatory bonus, so we also want to help municipalities, cities and regions not to lose the resources they need for their development and investment. For this reason, various resolutions have fallen. I would like to make this a little difficult by reading my resolutions, which are supported by my colleagues, with whom we have actually proposed that point today. So I propose that a resolution be adopted: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to do so by 30. 6. 2020 prepared a proposal for a one-off compensation for the reduction of the tax revenue of municipalities and regions due to the payment of the compensatory bonus, amounting to a minimum of 10 billion. CZK for municipalities and at least 6 billion. Kroner for the regions." So much for our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u157	I will now look around the hall to see if there is any further interest in the speech in the general debate. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. Now I ask whether there is interest in the final words. The plaintiff? You're not interested. The rapporteur? You're not interested. We will therefore proceed to the debate in detail, in which I have three Members. Mr Tomáš Martínek will be the first to speak and Mr Martin Kupka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u158	I would just like to read once again the resolution that I justified in the general debate: 'The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to do 30. 6. 2020 has prepared a proposal for a one-off measure for 2020 which will provide the municipalities with a one-off financial compensation for the loss of income due to a compensatory bonus of at least CZK 1,100 to the municipality and CZK 600 to the region for each resident.' Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u159	I will now request a speech from Mr Martin Kupka. However, I also do not see Mrs Vostroa in the order here, but I would ask you to sign up for a resolution in a detailed debate so that it does not fall to you. Please, Congressman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u160	I would like to propose and load a resolution that we have already talked about, which we have justified: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to prepare a proposal for a one-off measure for 2020 by 3 June, which will provide the municipalities with one-off financial compensation for the loss of income caused by a compensatory bonus, at least CZK 1 000 to the municipality and CZK 400 to the region for each resident for the financing of investment and maintenance of property'. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u161	Please hand over the rapporteur to the resolution so that we know what we will be voting on. Mr Ondřej Veselý will now appear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u162	Thank you for the floor. I refer to my resolution, but since it was relatively new, I will read it again: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the government to do 30. 6. 2020 prepared a proposal for a one-off compensation for the reduction of the tax revenue of municipalities and regions due to the payment of the compensatory bonus, amounting to a minimum of 10 billion. CZK for municipalities and at least 6 billion. Kroner for the regions." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u163	I will now ask Mrs Miloslava Vostroa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u164	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, allow me, too, to sign up for the motion for a resolution that I have read here in the general debate. But since it's been a while, let me repeat it too. The motion for a resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to submit A. Proposal for a solution to the loss of income from shared taxes in relation to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus in municipalities of up to 3,000 inhabitants; B. the proposal for financial collateralisation of investment actions of municipalities and regions in 2020 and 2021 in connection with a tax loss of at least 15 billion. CZK, in the period up to 16. 6. 2020." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u165	I do not now have another application in the detailed debate, but I will just point out that President Stanjura will have to revise his procedural proposal a little, because you have proposed the order of three resolutions, but there are four. So I'm just pointing out that you're gonna have to say it again anyway. I will now conclude the detailed debate. I wonder if there is an interest in the final words after a detailed debate. You're not interested. And now the chairman of the ČSSD club, Mr Chvojka, informed me that there will be a request for a break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u166	Good evening, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to take a break from the club for 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u167	I'll grant your request and meet you here at 8:12 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u168	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, the time for a break has expired. [[Gong.]] I have called you all together in the hall because we have completed both the detailed debate and the possibility for final words has taken place, so we will now have to continue with the draft procedure. I'd like my colleagues to make room at the speaker's desk, or we won't be able to continue. [[There are crowds of Members everywhere, the largest cluster around the Prime Minister in front of the government bench.]] Please, gentlemen. Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Prime Minister. Please release the position at the speaker's desk. [[The President is ringing the bell.]] Or please ask for a longer break. [[The line at the pitch is melting.]] Thank you. rapporteur, I would ask you to introduce us to the draft procedure for this item of vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u169	During the detailed debate, four motions for resolutions were tabled, and I would propose to vote on them gradually in the order in which they were put forward, with the fact that, if any of the motions for resolutions were adopted, it precludes the vote on the following.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u170	Thank you. I think it's a simple and clear procedure. I'll ask for the order in which they were loaded.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u171	Yes, to remind you of the order. So the rapporteur's proposal - Mr Martínek - was the first. Secondly, we would vote in favour of Mr Kupka's motion for a resolution. As a third, we would vote on Mr Veselý's proposal. And as the fourth vote, we would vote on Mrs Vostrá's proposal. With the fact that if one of the earlier proposals had always been adopted, there would have been no vote on another.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u172	Thank you. Now the procedure is clear, I think. There's an application for a check-out, so I'm gonna have you all checked out. Please sign up again with your voting cards. When the number of applicants is settled, we will vote on the procedure. Looks like the number of applicants has stabilized. Does Chairman Chvojka have anything else to say? [[Yes.]] The procedure? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u173	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I just wanted to ask if I heard it right, because I was still dealing with my colleagues there, that we couldn't vote the last two procedures after that, or the vote, that is, if he goes through the third, then the fourth one isn't gonna vote. Or exactly how it is? Can I ask you to repeat that?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u174	The way I understood it, we will vote on these proposals gradually, as they have been tabled, and if we approve any of them, then at that point, we will no longer vote on the rest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u175	That's what I suggested. If you think they're not excluded, then... [[Many reactions from the diaper. Mrs Valachová: The third and fourth are not excluded.]] So I am able to upgrade the draft procedure so that only those proposals one, two and three would be excluded, and that the fourth proposal will still be voted on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u176	Okay, so there's a modified procedure that would sound like we're voting in the order of Martínek, Kupka, Veselý, Vostrá, assuming that the proposals one to three are mutually exclusive, that is, if any of them are approved, we're not going to vote on the others, but we will vote on Mrs Vostrá's proposal in any case if I said it correctly. If there is no longer any objection, we would have voted on this procedure. Initiating vote number 30. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 30, 189 Members and Members are registered, for 189, against no one. Unanimous match. I ask the rapporteur to speak on individual proposals and we will vote gradually.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u177	We are the first to have the rapporteur's proposal - Mr Martínek. "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to do 30. 6. 2020 has prepared a proposal for a one-off measure for 2020 which will provide the municipalities with one-off financial compensation for the loss of income caused by a compensatory bonus, at least CZK 1,100 to the municipality and CZK 600 to the region for each resident."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u178	Thank you. Initiating vote number 31. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 31, 189 Members and Members are registered, for 85, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u179	The second is the proposal of Mr Kupka, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to do 3. 6. 2020 has prepared a proposal for a one-off measure for 2020 which will provide the municipalities with one-off financial compensation for the loss of income caused by a compensatory bonus, at least CZK 1,000 to the municipality and CZK 400 to the region for each resident for the financing of investment and maintenance of property."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u180	Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. The number 32 vote includes 189 Members and Members, for 86, against no one. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u181	Another is the proposal of Mr Veselý. "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the government to do 30. 6. 2020 prepared a proposal for a one-off compensation for the reduction of the tax revenues of municipalities and regions due to the payment of the compensation bonus, amounting to at least CZK 10 billion for municipalities and at least CZK 6 billion for regions."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u182	Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 33, 190 Members and Members are registered, for 96, against zero. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u183	And the last proposal we are going to vote on is Mrs Vostrá's proposal. "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to submit A. Proposal for a solution to the loss of income from shared taxes in relation to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus in municipalities of up to 3,000 inhabitants; B. the proposal for financial collateralisation of investment activities of municipalities and regions in 2020 and 2021 in connection with a tax loss of at least CZK 15 billion."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u184	Thank you. Is President Stanjura in favour of the previous vote? About this. Okay. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u185	I would need to clarify and explain what this resolution is all about. It's extra, okay? It is a resolution designed to compensate for the failure of shared taxes, which is Republican thanks to reduced tax revenues - then we can vote separately, but it has no connection to point 5. I understand the motion for a resolution. But before we vote on this, I would like the petitioners to justify it to us, because there is not a word in the motion for a resolution about a compensatory bonus and the fact that municipalities and regions are involved. If it's extra, I don't have a problem with me. If the petitioners wanted to solve the compensation bonus, they wrote it wrong, because that's just not what the resolution said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u186	Mr President, I would not like to reopen the general debate, but I have given you my word and there are others, so please the President, but only with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u187	Just for a little while, thank you. If I may ask for some clarification. Is this the 14 or 16 billion that social democracy proposes, plus the additional 15 billion proposed by the GTC? So it's a total of 31 billion? Do I understand that correctly? Just make sure we know what we're voting on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u188	Thank you. I hope President Kováčik will clarify.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u189	Thank you for the floor. First, to the speaker, Mr Bartošek, through Mr President. There's no PC, there's no PC! For one thing, I find it very unusual, and on other occasions, some of those who have spoken here immediately before me are also objecting when discussions are reopened in the middle of the vote and discussions are being held. So you can vote, but I don't think it would be a good idea to open up a debate. Unless one of the ministers would like to speak and open the debate again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u190	President Stanjura is once again claiming priority rights. I'll be good myself, but I'll be short and brief!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u191	Well, that motivates me not to be brief and short! That remark, Mr Vice-President, is completely out of place. Firstly, there is no debate, but those who have the right of priority may speak under the Rules of Procedure. And I really don't get it! It's not that I'm arguing for or against the proposal, I'm going back to the debate. I understood exactly as Mr Bartošek, that this is another plus 15. We weren't that brave, but I just wanted to make sure that it was meant to be. Because it is not an alternative to what Mr Veselý proposed, which we just approved. We couldn't even vote on it if it was an alternative. So if the government Members want to support this, I just want to say that the outcome of the negotiations will be better than we expected, it will be plus 31 billion in the budgets of cities, municipalities and regions. We weren't that brave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u192	Thank you. I would like to point out that at the beginning, we approved the procedure for requests here in the O.R., so that this last option is not seen as excluding ourselves from the others. So I'm sure we'll vote. I don't know if the rapporteur wants to fill it in. And if there was any need for further clarification, I'd rather ask for a break for such clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u193	As rapporteur, I understand it as it has been said here that this is a supplement to paragraph 3. So I guess we know what we're voting on. That it's extra.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u194	Thank you. I do not know whether we can move on to the final vote and whether it is necessary to read the motion for a resolution again or if everyone remembers it. To the vote, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u195	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I am very sorry, but I question the previous vote number 32.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u196	Thirty-two or thirty-three?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u197	Previous vote - I've been delayed, and I've got a yes on high.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u198	So this is questioning vote number 33. Then I shall have to vote on the objection to the vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the opposition to the vote. Who's against it? In voting number 34 on the objection, 190 Members and Members are registered, for 167, against 4. Objection has been approved. We should repeat the previous vote. So I'll ask the rapporteur. There's a request for a check-out, I'll sign you off before this vote. Please log in with your cards again. I ask the rapporteur, if necessary, to reiterate to us the motion for a resolution which we will now vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u199	So once again, we have Mr Veselý's parliamentary proposal: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies... I've read it before. I don't think it's necessary to repeat it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u200	I don't know now, I hope the House knows what we're going to vote on. And I'm initiating a repeat vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 35, 189 Members and Members are registered, for 95, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u201	We would therefore now vote on the parliamentary proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u202	I suspect there will still be a vote check. [[A disturbance in the left side of the hall.]] I'll give you room to check the votes. President Kalousek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, unlike some other clubs, I haven't taken a break today. If you want to continue these practices, it can happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u204	Thank you. And the Member to vote, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u205	Good evening. I would like to question the previous vote because I tucked the card in, but here I have an enko. And if you look at the vote before, I've been delayed, too, so there's no reason to question my speech here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u206	I don't know if the objection was correct, I'm afraid not. President Kalousek reporting, President Stanjura reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u207	Mr Member, you may have to add that you are questioning the vote in order to vote on the objection. However, without wanting to touch your conscience, there are cameras in this room. [[Reactions from the O.R.]] You must be really sure you were in your position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u208	Thank you. Mr. Ambassador again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u209	So, as I said at the beginning, I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u210	Okay, that's an objection. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u211	I am a friend myself, but I do not understand why the vote is being called into question. I really didn't get that. And the MP has been here twice. I don't believe it, I'm sorry, I don't believe my voting device doesn't work, I sit like a rock, I don't do anything, and when the club chairman comes to piss me off, I remember it didn't work! I don't believe it! The evening's already been done!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u212	I understand that, but the objection was raised. Mr. Chairman Kalousek yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u213	I'm sorry, I'm a member of the mandate and immunity committee. I consider it a serious matter. I'm asking for 30 minutes of recess and visual surveillance on the camera to see if the MP was actually in his place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u214	Thank you. I, according to all the customs of this House, will comply at this moment. We did breaks during the vote regularly. On the other hand, it is true that the objection is to be put to the vote immediately. However, this is about the debate. So I'm declaring a break until 9:00 p.m. President Kalousek will be more specific.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u215	Mr. President, I'm really asking for that surveillance tape!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u216	Thank you. Break till 9:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u217	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for checking the record has passed. I got the footage, and I showed it to all the members of the mandate and immunity committee that I got at that moment in the hall. I can say from the record that the Member has been sitting at the place reserved for him all the time, and I will leave any other comments on the other members who have seen the record. It wasn't President Kalousek, but I'll give him the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u218	The Member was in his place. I apologize for the half-hour I've held you up for, but I think that's a good price to pay for the removal of doubt and the possible taste of something being wrong. But the MP was in his place, I saw it with my own eyes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u219	Thank you. So we can continue where we left off, which is an objection to the vote that was put forward by the Member, because he did not have the voting device that we will now vote on. So I'm opening the vote on objection to vote number 35. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against the objection? Voting number 36, 189 Members and Members shall be registered, for 167, against no one. Objection received. So, for the second time, we will repeat the vote on Mr Veselý's third proposal. And I ask the rapporteur, if necessary, to present him. Is there an application for a check-out? Well, I'm gonna put you all out of business. Please log in with your cards again. And I ask the rapporteur, in the meantime, to remind you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u220	Since it's already been read, I don't think it's necessary to repeat it. These are 10 billion for municipalities and 6 billion for regions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u221	Thank you. That, I believe, is enough. And I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 37, 186 Members and Members have been signed up, for 90, against no one. The motion was not accepted this time. If there isn't another vote check, I would like another proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u222	So, lastly, we will be voting for Mrs Vostrá's proposal, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies is asking the government to submit an A. proposal for a solution to the loss of income from shared taxes in connection with the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus in municipalities of up to 3,000 inhabitants; B. the proposal for financial collateralisation of investment activities of municipalities and regions in 2020 and 2021 in connection with a tax loss of at least CZK 15 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-002-380.u223	Thank you. And I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 38, 189 Members and Members are registered, for 143, against no one. The motion was accepted. Thank you. That was all the suggestions, if I'm not mistaken. I thank the appellant, thank the rapporteur, and I conclude the discussion of this point. And we'll move on to the show, which is point number.
