ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u1	1. Proposal for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the period of emergency To this point, you have received the House document 5058, and I will ask Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to present the proposal. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u2	So hello, everyone. Mr President, honourable Members, I believed that I would no longer have to ask the Chamber of Deputies to extend the emergency situation further, especially because I think that our country has objectively managed the pandemic of coronavirus as one of the best in the EU and our epidemiologists have confirmed that we have the disease under control for the time being and have recommended that we begin to carefully return to normal. That's why I actually announced last week that I probably wouldn't need an extension of the emergency situation. Yet I am asking you today, for reasons known to all of you. Last Thursday, 23 April, the Municipal Court in Prague issued a judgment abolishing some of the emergency measures of the Ministry of Health, including the key ones, namely the regulation of the free movement of persons, the prevention of mass events or the ban on the operation of shops or other establishments. The Court concluded that such critical crisis restrictions must not be issued by the Ministry of Health in the form of emergency measures by the Public Health Act, but only by means of crisis measures under the Crisis Act. The court itself said that our government was dealing with an exceptional situation, including from a legal point of view. Of course, I agree that we have never dealt with such a situation in the Czech Republic. That's why we don't even have any precedents on how to deal with it properly in a matter of fact and formality. Never in the past have we simply faced a danger that would so fundamentally endanger the health of the population. And if you have seen, for example, one of the studies that says that even those sick people can actually reduce their lives by up to ten years. Today, as one of the first countries, we return to normal life. And it is clear that our measures have been effective and have proven to have helped prevent the uncontrolled spread of the epidemic. The Czech Republic has the honour to be among the so-called early opening countries, that is, among the countries that, as the first of them, relax and open. And I had a video conference last week. There was the Prime Minister of Australia, the Prime Minister of New Zealand, the Prime Minister of Denmark, Norway, the Prime Minister of Greece, Austria and Israel, we agreed to cooperate, and the next call will take place next week, on a very specific cooperation, on a joint procedure for various projects, to be truly self-sufficient within vaccines, medicines, medical aids, etc. So, thanks to these measures that we have implemented, there have been no catastrophic scenarios such as Italy, Spain, or the United States. No overcrowded I.C.U., no corridors full of intubated patients, no dead in the cooling boxes. Yes, I suppose we should have formally followed the crisis law, as the court said. We respected his decision, and in the form of the measures mentioned, our government immediately corrected them on the same day. Regardless of the formal level, I believe that what we did was a highly responsible decision that protected our country and our citizens and came at the right time. And for that, I would also like to thank you, Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic, for all your assistance both with emergency conditions and thank you for all you have done for our citizens at the time of this crisis. And I really appreciate your constructive approach. But back to the court's decision. It is because of him that our government is asking you to extend the emergency. From an epidemiological point of view, it is necessary to continue to prevent the uncontrolled spread of the epidemic by the necessary measures. Our country remains in danger, lives, health, property, but also internal order of our country and security are still at risk. Given that emergency measures under crisis law may only be issued by the government during an emergency period ending on 30 April, it is necessary that: The Chamber of Deputies has agreed to extend the emergency situation as foreseen by Article 6 (1) of the Treaty. 2 of the Constitutional Act on Security of the Czech Republic. Key restrictive measures will be gradually released until 25 May. And if we implement certain restrictive measures after that date, these will be those measures that were already taken before the emergency. And I believe that with our request to extend the emergency situation, I'm standing here today for the last time. We need to know that the virus really is unknown, that there are different theories. We were, of course, able to reverse the collapse of our health care with the introduction of a general quarantine. And some countries have managed to keep the epidemic under control for a long time, but some haven't. Like Singapore, for example, where the second wave of the epidemic appeared. And, of course, we are preparing a smart quarantine project that will begin on May 1. And the results are still great. We had a LDN case yesterday in Mariánské Lázně, where 34 clients and 12 employees were infected. And of course, we have to count on the second wave to come, but we have to be prepared for it. Yesterday we very operationally helped the Karlovy Vary Region, when we sent ten soldiers there because there are 12 infected employees. And I think the cooperation works perfectly, and of course I thank our army, our soldiers, who are the main part of the Smart Quarantine project. So, given the facts I have put forward, our government is asking the Chamber of Deputies to extend the emergency situation until 25 May, until it is necessary for effective crisis measures to remain under the crisis law. After this date, according to the current epidemiological forecast, we should only need to take more moderate measures, which we are already taking and will continue to adopt exclusively under the Public Health Act. I understand that there have been various speculations and criticisms about how medical supplies were purchased, and I want to assure you that I will ask the Supreme Audit Office to check all purchases of all departments at an emergency time, so that there is no doubt that this has been done transparently and objectively in view of the situation. I am also convinced that we have proved that we are in no way using the current crisis to restrict democracy and freedom. And maybe for some people, our measures are tough, but especially according to hygienists and epidemiologists, they are necessary for successful management of the pandemic. So based on the current situation and the court's decision, I'm asking you to support and extend the emergency situation until 25 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. Before I open the debate, I recall that according to § 109m para. In the case of a short hearing on a proposal for an extension of the emergency situation, no factual remarks may be made in the debate, the Member may speak not more than twice in the debate, and the House may decide to limit speaking time for up to five minutes, while the limitation of speaking time also applies to Members authorised to refer to the matter to the Member's club's opinion. I am now opening the debate. I would like to inform you that the Gremium has once again agreed on how priority rights will be sorted, which at this point has already been exercised. Each of the chairmen of the political parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies shall act according to the current size of the members' clubs. The Minister of Health, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Industry and Trade and Transport will then appear. Then there will be those who are enrolled in the debate. So first, I'm going to ask Mr. ODS Chairman Petr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let us first ask ourselves why we have this point of procedure on the table and this request from the Government and why we are meeting here, why we are meeting here in a completely unplanned manner. This is because, in these days and in these hours, government chaos, disdain and permanent confusion have led to an extremely scandalous situation. The Court of First Instance stated that the Government of the Czech Republic restricted the rights of citizens in a way that was illegal. Yes, that's an unusual and very sad moment in our political history. The government acted unlawfully on such a crucial matter as interference with the fundamental and constitutional rights of citizens. The fact that there were grounds for restrictive measures - I repeat, that there were grounds for restrictive measures is clear. We never questioned it either. But the way the government approached them is dangerous, and, as the court has also stated, this method is also unacceptable. We can say that the circumstances were unusual. Yes, that's an excuse that's now used for everything. Circumstances were unusual. But it wasn't, and it's not. It wasn't negligence, it wasn't ignorance that the government would commit in a hurry. The government has been warned that it is making a difficult decision. I personally asked the Prime Minister and other members of the government about the reasons why the decision-making under the Crisis Management Act to decision-making under the Public Health Act was moved from decision-making to decision-making under the Public Health Act. No answers, no reasons I didn't get. So it wasn't about time distress. The government could continue and follow the law, and it chose this procedure itself, a procedure that clearly proved illegal. I remind you that the government didn't have to, wasn't in any desperate situation or distress. In the last two months, if you look back, she's gotten support from the House. The government received support across the political spectrum for whatever was necessary, what was urgent. And every time the government asked for it, the Chamber of Deputies met practically immediately. I can say that over the last 30 years, no government has had such constructive and so helpful opposition as it has been in the last two months. Never a government. And what did the government do? When the Prime Minister was told the decision of a court that convicted the government of an illegal decision, he came to the government press conference three weeks later to accuse the opposition, cursing basically with a communist dictionary to attack and invent things that aren't true, which today is his working method. That's not what we heard here today. Today we heard thanks, a constructive approach. It's like the famous Jekyll-Hyde. Just the Prime Minister, when he needs something, he looks constructive, but once he gets it, he shows his true face. And, to remember, it wasn't just a criticism of the opposition. The Prime Minister accused the entire constitutional institution, the Senate of the Czech Republic. And now the government has sent us a request to the House for an extension of the emergency, in which reason - and read it well - the government even challenges the decision of the court. But let's look at the very justification, let's look at the justification that the government is giving us here. You'll find mostly general terms, you'll find various bureaucratic, I'd say pseudo-bureaucratic wording. The proposal is justified by words or terms, expressions such as key measures, certain measures, but you will not find one single concrete measure for which the government is asking for an extension of the emergency situation. It's completely unspecific. And if the government is leaning on some government documents here, the analysis says it's leaning on them, then I would consider it right for them to be submitted to the request. To know the data, the specific things that make decisions. We here, ladies and gentlemen, decide the absolutely crucial thing. We do not decide anything less than the power of the government to restrict the rights and freedoms of citizens. And in such a situation, we must be extremely cautious, and we must have good reasons for doing so. In the justification for the emergency extension request, you will find information about what kind of testing is going on and that things are going well, you will find everything possible there just to have something there, but you will not find anything that corresponds to the seriousness of what we are talking about. You won't find anything in there that we've requested that the request for an emergency extension be made by the public. You're not gonna find anything in there that can clear up the situation. And you won't find anything in there that matches the seriousness of what we have to decide here today. About an emergency situation which grants the government exceptional powers that the government can use to limit citizens' rights and freedoms. There's nothing about a clear plan, there's nothing about a precise timetable, when and what the government will limit, on what criteria, on what terms. There is no plan of when and exactly what the government will begin to return to normal, under what exact circumstances, there are no specific obligations that any reasonable person would expect there and for which the public is asking. There's nothing there. It's - I'm sorry, but I don't know what else to call it - it's a bureaucratic reading of a sub-average level, and it's not even in any way reasonable. The government is making it clear to us that the emergency has become a kind of administrative tool in its understanding, so that no one will bother the government with questions, regrets, criticisms and legitimate demands. They're trying to make us think that this is normal, that this is normal. But this isn't normal. What's happening is just not normal. The decisions here are changing in the order of hours, and they are simultaneously interpreted by different members of the government. Nor will a single interpretation of these decisions be made available to the public. There are no criteria, no rules, nothing. The government is cursing epidemiologists, but epidemiologists say they recommended something other than what the government decided. And so we are witnessing an endless collision of decisions, press releases, so that further decisions are presented at other press conferences and the original decisions are corrected. No one knows what was opened, under what conditions it was opened, where to go, when school, what to claim. It's kind of a crazy government PR ride, a crazy government PR ride that's got a lot of carambola, but the witnesses of those carambola are being called on, shouted and bullied to keep their mouths shut so they don't point it out. The government is not progressing well these days. He's amateur, chaotic. It can't get any worse. Society does not soothe, confuses, strengthens one's fears and recklessness in others. She does what she wants, and she thinks she's gonna get away with everything in people because of her concern about the pandemic. And so far, I'm afraid so. But the point is, he's acting illegally. They say it's not important, as long as we did the right thing. But that's not true, that's what matters. Not only does the government act illegally, but it is not yet able to reflect on such a serious mistake. And the procedure is completely unacceptable from this point of view. And I could also ask, " On what basis does the government decide? ' On what basis are measures taken? On what basis are the measures taken released? Even epidemiologists who advise the government are already raising their eyebrows. And where's the data? We're all calling for them. Where are the criteria? How'd the field testing go? What happened to the smart quarantine that you always said were the basic conditions for easing, and the way they turn out, you're going to make decisions? Where do we keep the data? [[10.30 hours]] We also have the results in the material you presented, and we read that something is going on. But where was it taken? What, then, does the government decide when one day it says that things will be released at a certain date, and the next day it will be two weeks earlier? Based on what criteria? And on what criteria does the government need to decide that something should be closed again? Do we know that? Why doesn't the public know? Why isn't it presented in the material you're asking for as serious a matter as extending the emergency? And so I could go on. I could put a number of these examples here, but I'm going to limit myself to a few basic statements. As I said before, the ODS has behaved as constructively as possible at times of crisis in the last few weeks and months. Yes, most constructively. We helped the government not only with the adoption of restrictive measures that helped the pandemic to stop, but also with proposals and solutions to counter its effects on citizens, entrepreneurs and businessmen. In the end, many of them were, albeit in a kind of ripped form, but were also accepted by the government. The ODS behaved constructively. The ODS will act constructively even now, even though the government doesn't do anything to repay it, even though the Prime Minister still insults us where he can. We are not taking this constructive position and responsible position now because of the government itself, but because of the citizens of this country that we care about so that the uncertainty and confusion caused by the government's decision-making is not further deepened. And for the sake of citizens today, ODS Members will raise their hand to extend the emergency situation until next week, when the Chamber of Deputies will sit down and when the government will be able to compose a reply from what has gone completely wrong here today. And since I am the first speaker, I am also bringing forward a proposal for an alternative resolution which will sound like the Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency situation until 7 May. I also want to make it very clear that today we will support the extension of the emergency situation for the last time. And if the government wants to talk to us about any other measures and wants to continue with some other measures, then for the next week, we have four conditions that the public is not going on the train. And we want the government to meet these conditions. First, we demand a detailed plan for the government to restart the economy, including the terms of reviving the return to normal life. But please, nicely with terms and criteria, which is absolutely essential to all citizens. Secondly, we want a detailed plan to protect risk groups. Risk group protections. A plan that will be guaranteed by the supply of protective equipment and also of finance. For the elderly' homes, for social services, for social services homes, for risk groups, just for everyone who today is in danger of the situation where the state is supposed to help. We know that protecting risk groups is one of the basic conditions for us to be able to release effectively. We lack such a protection plan from the government. And let's give social services employees, clients support, supplies, resources. There is a clear guarantee here that cities, municipalities and regions can handle it. Thirdly, the Prime Minister and the members of the government need to stop taking advantage of the emergency situation and the government's position on repeated disgusting attacks on the opposition, from which you repeatedly ask for understanding and support. That's our third request, our third condition. Prime Minister, your speeches and your propaganda create a deep problem for the Czech Republic. But he that soweth the wind, he also reapeth the storm. And you should at least stop at a border that should be sacred to everyone in a democratic society regardless of his political beliefs, personal interests and past. The state, neither the government, nor Parliament are your companies. And the opposition represents at least as many voters as you do, Prime Minister. And the interests of these voters, the interests of our voters, the views of these voters, the lives of these voters, are just as valuable as the opinions, interests and lives of your voters. During the whole crisis, Prime Minister, you overcame your opposition to democratic debate and opposition for about two or three hours and organized a joint meeting. Then it all went away. Once again, I call on you to focus on our arguments, to focus on the form of the aid, the economic aid with which the government has so far come, because a huge number of people have not yet arrived at the government's aid. And even a slow opening doesn't bring clients back to a lot of day-to-day operations. And we need to bring a solution, and we need to keep these people from falling. We need to hear our opinions, we need to discuss the interests of our constituents, not just yours, and that is simply not happening. That's the third requirement, the third condition. And fourthly, the last thing I call you to do, which I call you to be the fourth condition for further possible discussions on measures. Let us begin a genuine professional and political debate on how to proceed, how to restore the economy. Let's not continue this chaos. In one TV show, you pull out that endless investment list, the next, you're telling something else. Let's change that. Let's make the crisis an opportunity. Let's tell ourselves what we can achieve together, and then let's compete with arguments in those areas where we can't agree. For example, we think that saving is necessary for the state and not for citizens. And that this is a unique opportunity to cut bureaucratic procedures, regulation, nonsense, and how to move to an effective state. For example, we think that it is necessary and that it is right to leave money to municipalities and cities. They can give jobs to local companies. And I see no other than a marketing reason why today the state should dictate and organize this. And so we could continue. This is what we want to talk about, this is what we need to talk about together. Ladies and gentlemen, this is our four-point draft of conditions and demands towards the government. But this is, if you've listened well to me, a handshake again. A handshake again. And we want to show people that goodwill is something real. That goodwill isn't just a word, some words. That these aren't just words in cynical marketing. And that people can still rely on the fact that some things are still sacred to everyone in a democratic society regardless of political beliefs, personal interests or the past. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the ODS will support an extension of the emergency by one week. As I have already said, we are doing this for the citizens of this country, we are doing this so that all measures do not change again from one day to the next and that Czech citizens are not threatened by government mistakes and its illegal actions. Because of the Czech citizens and in order to prevent further confusion, we will support an extension of the emergency situation by one week. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. Now, please, Chairman of the Pirate Party. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u6	Mr President, Mr Government, Prime Minister, colleagues, colleagues, citizens, I would like to divide my speeches into two parts. The first part is a direct response to the government's request that we received at the end of last week to extend the emergency situation by another month until 25 May. It has already been said much about how the request is plentiful and does not contain the necessary information on the basis of which Members, with their knowledge and conscience, could choose to raise their hand for this. Last time we talked about what is needed not only for Members of the Chamber of Deputies, but also for citizens and companies, so that they can actually operate in this emergency state. And that's information, perspective, guarantees. [[10.40 hours]] We talked about four conditions under which we would be willing to talk about extending the emergency situation, as proposed by the government. Unfortunately, the hand taken by the pirát was not returned to either of the government's parties. The first point is crucial. The Czech Republic was in a state because of the initial government's ignorance, when it had no medical supplies and it was very difficult to get these medical aids. This triggered a sort of rivalry between two ministries, and at the same time, in our opinion, the analysts' opinion led to the inefficient treatment of our money. If the purchase of medical aids is one of the reasons why the government is asking for an extension of the emergency situation, it is absolutely necessary for the public and the Members to deposit accounts for these purchases, that is to say transparently on the Ministry's website, not by sending some tables by e-mail, and to disprove doubts about the purchase of both the Ministry of Health and some purchases of the Ministry of Interior, where the companies from which the Czech Republic buys in China have no history regarding the production or distribution of health aids. That's the first thing. We've spent, or we're going to spend, roughly 13 billion. CZK in the purchase of these items of different types and there is no account. A number of contracts are not in the contract register, so they will stop, actually those contracts will be void at a given time if they are not published. This is important, this didn't happen. To me it seemed sad that my interpellation, which I sent to the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch, was ridiculously answered on Facebook or Twitter: Try it on, you should have been with us! We were the nominee for the Central Crisis Staff after a lot of pressure could only be sent soon after that, and the criticism of buying and choosing companies is long-term. So we were there, you ignored us. So that's the first condition, the filing of accounts, how it was purchased for about 13 billion. Crowns. The second thing, which I also miss in the request for an extension of the emergency: the government must publish data and forecasts. Why? Because even the court has accused the government that the measures are inadequately justified. And that is not for Members, but it is for the Czech state. Because if - and the Constitutional Court today discusses further complaints concerning certain measures - if it turns out that this was not justified, the principle of proportionality was not for them, then the Czech Republic is facing a number of judicial processes where companies and citizens will rightly seek compensation from the state. So every major government regulation must be supported not only by an epidemiology report, but by an impact analysis. The fact that this is not happening to bills outside the crisis is sad. The fact that this is not happening in a crisis where every measure affects millions of our fellow citizens is a fundamental problem. So the second thing: publish data and forecasts of future developments. Maybe even the plan that will happen, and Prime Minister Babiš here at the outset was talking about it if the second wave, like in Singapore, had happened, as the other countries were facing it. I think it is a risk not only with the lives of citizens, but also with the economic situation of the Czech Republic. Thirdly, the government has to justify its individual measures, not by making up some sort of story at a press conference, or by a high-ranking person on the Central Crisis Staff saying that he got a petition, wrote a lot of people to him, or read about it somewhere on Facebook. Again, the reasons are important so that everything is in accordance with the law. And fourthly, the government must present a scheme for partial compensation for the victims of the coronation. We drew attention to this by interpelling the chairman of Jakub Michálek's club a month ago. This was the key moment when the government transferred the decree from the crisis law to the Minister of Health. That's what the court decided on Thursday. Prime Minister Babiš interpreted his result quite distortedly. I was very surprised when threatening e-mails started coming to me in connection with the court's decision, that the opposition was risking people's lives, and that we somehow influenced the court, or that was our decision. I can't agree with that. As far as the court ruling is concerned, the court has said a clear point: It is essential to ensure the legal background of the transition from some crisis law, an emergency, to normal. I mean, to operate mostly under some law that we can rely on, let it be a law on public health... If we need to maintain these measures, there is still a path, and the government has demonstrated itself, in a legislative emergency, it can write a very comprehensive proposal in the morning, send it to the Members in the morning and approve it by a government majority in the evening. Develop a law that will be specific to the pandemic period. Unless we have faced such a crisis so far. This didn't happen either. In connection with what has been said from the court, and that the government does not represent a future plan, and it actually gets another more than 25 days on the system turn it on and off, we will not support this extension for a month. We will support shorter, because we understand that while the government has fallen asleep on its laurels, that it has plenty of time, things need to be put in order and really set up the system cleverly. I would say a few things that have been said here by Prime Minister Babiš. Mr. Prymula reported on the launch of a clever quarantine almost a month ago. Suddenly, we learn that it will run from May. Minister Hamáček - he is not here - he is performing in the media with sharp rhetoric: I will turn off the central purchase! Did Minister Hamáček introduce a transformation plan if he cannot rely on his partners in KSČM to support this period? How to move towards the regions to measures where central purchasing is not central when this central purchase falls out, and the market for protective aids, of course, is not healthy? Are the domestic companies involved in the whole process? Because in the beginning there was a comment that they didn't have enough capacity, but nothing major happened in about four weeks. And I have information from those companies that, after they sent their bids, they were even actively approached, so they were rejected. For example, Prusa 3D printers regarding the shields that are in every hospital that the company subsidizes from its means, and the Ministry of Health subsequently rejected them. I talked to Mr. Průša about it, they sent an e-mail, he said he wasn't interested. [[To the government desks.]] Otherwise, Minister, you will be able to respond if you have not responded to me through Mr President to my serious interpellation about buying something other than a fun tweet. Maybe fun for you. And now the second part that I would like to direct here. We're gonna vote on the extension today. We're willing to do a shorter time when government ministers do their homework and make it right so that we don't just work with the principle of shut down and turn it on, and I'll respond to the fact that in a month and a half, in addition, turn off-on and some not-so-efficient and not-so-smart subsidies to people damaged by the coronation didn't happen that much. I heard criticism from the Prime Minister in a number of media at the end. Today he was such a good cop and bad cop who criticized the opposition for throwing a pitchfork at him, ruining the job, even risking the lives of citizens in the Czech Republic. I believe that citizens remember that from the very beginning we tried to help not only in the adoption of the first restrictive measures, that we demanded the plan, that I think it is quite right, that the citizens demanded it, that the companies demanded it, and that many of the proposals that went through in a state of legislative emergency were originally from the opposition's proposals, from the Pirates' proposals, but many of the proposals were not applied. And since the emergency is a transitional time, I'd like to show the Prime Minister here in public that he's not telling the truth. We have presented a plan after consultation with experts, with epidemiologists, with economists, who are no longer needed by the Central Crisis Staff, and the plan is called The Future now. The plan rests on a number of things that we really should have been able to accomplish. It is a matter of area testing, it is a question of predictive models that different think tanks offer, unfortunately the government does not provide them with models. It is a matter that we can grasp and proceed with, and if the things that the government is talking about and will actually implement at the moment, the Prime Minister can count on the support of the pirát. Even if they present the proposals as their own. We've divided the plan into three stages, because we're really dealing with the future now. [[10.50 hours]] It's a phase that I would call into the holidays, it's a psychological moment of a break, where it's important to actually solve the situation where people and companies are falling into unsolvable situations, some spiral of execution or possibly insolvency may spin, where we need to focus on the immediate, effective aid not only for those who run a loan for which they are then guaranteed by the bank, but really for all who have been hit by the crisis, so that we don't go back to normal before, but to move forward with it. It is also a question of social services that are still suffering and were the last to receive medical aids. It's a matter of health protection, smart solutions, smart quarantines, eRouse system. All these proposals are here. [[He's showing the material.]] Some have already started to work, not with sufficient intensity. There's a view by the end of the year. At this point, hundreds of billions, tens, hundreds of billions, some of which have not yet flowed, are already flowing into the country's investment. And it's very important how we're going to direct these investments, whether it's going to be a renewal of that state, an inefficient state, as the SAO spoke about it, sorry, the NBU, when digitalisation doesn't work, when highways aren't built, when investments are squandered on non-perspective tasks, whether we can direct those investments to the economy in that medium term so that we have a brain room and not a montage. And then there's this long prediction that should continue to happen so that the Czech Republic not only succeeds in the crisis, but also takes it as an opportunity. So, officially, even in front of you Members, including the ANO government movement, I'm going to hand this plan over to Prime Minister Babiš in a larger format so he doesn't fit in anywhere, so he can't slander the opposition in the media, make her guilty of the current situation. Like I said, we're willing to talk to the government anytime. In terms of extending the emergency situation, I have not been contacted as chairman of the opposition party by a single government politician to discuss this matter with me in order to answer our four questions. So I hope that this plan of the Future will now be inspiring to the Prime Minister. And when he accidentally discovers something he needs to explain to the pirát, we're available at any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. Next up, Chairman of the SPD, Tomio Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD is proposing to extend the emergency by seven days, i.e. until 7 May. There is a meeting of the House next week, so we can update the state at any time on the basis of the latest facts and the emergency situation either to renew or not to prolong, so that the health and lives of our citizens and at the same time to ensure that people have as little economic and social damage as possible. So it is not necessary to extend by a month today, as the government suggests, when we will all be here in the House for the whole next week anyway. We have always been and are still ready for the SPD to support all the steps and decisions of the government to protect the lives and health of our citizens. It is necessary to underline the goodwill that the SPD has in this matter. At the same time, however, we recall that the government must protect both the lives and the freedom and property of citizens. Much of the government's regulation limits freedom in the fight against coronavirus and damages property. It's not a criticism. Measures are needed. We and the government must therefore carefully measure the level of intervention in freedoms in the name of protecting lives, so that the damage is not unnecessarily greater than is absolutely necessary. Here I stress that the health and lives of citizens are the most important value for the SPD movement. What situation are we in? Doctors, economists, entrepreneurs and experts are publicly opposed to stretching restrictions. The common public is becoming confused by conflicting reports and opinions. She waited for the results of the field testing and expected the introduction of a clever quarantine, which was to go hand in hand with the release of restrictions and bans. She was expecting clear words and a clear plan. She didn't get it. So, following the proper steps of the government at the start of the disease crisis, and the SPD also supported these actions, there is now uncertainty in public about what will happen next. People ask: Why restrictions are still valid. Why can they do something, and they can't do another thing for another week? Why does the emergency continue? Citizens are already speculating out loud that the government needs to prolong the emergency just so that millions of public money purchases can be made without a tender. The Government proposes to extend the emergency situation until 25 May, but it has not submitted any factual arguments to the public or to the House. Of course, we see confusion not only in the government itself, but also in the crisis staff. Last Tuesday, for example, Prime Minister Prima said that he and the other ministers for the ANO movement did not want to prolong the emergency situation. It's been a few days, and things are different. Perhaps the reason is the judgment of the court in the case of government misconduct in the adoption of extraordinary measures. It was an unnecessary mistake. I stress that I understand that such a pandemic is a new situation. And it's a new situation that governments haven't seen before. And a number of difficult decisions must be made. That's why the government doesn't have it completely easy. That is why the SPD is making constructive proposals to the government in the first place. Many of these ideas have already been accepted in a partial way. And we are trying to work together because I think that, in a crisis and an emergency, we should all be working together here to help citizens and help deal with this crisis throughout the Republic. We should all pull together as much as possible. I therefore absolutely have to resist the claim that responsibility should fall on the House for the damage to the health of citizens, as not prolonging the emergency situation according to the government's wishes will mean ending the necessary and necessary restrictions and will collapse the fight against the spread of the disease. As I was saying, the Chamber of Deputies is meeting all week. So our proposal for an extension of seven days, which will also be voted on today, has a simple logic. On the other hand, we can update the situation at any time, and again in literally a few minutes next week, either prolong the emergency situation or adjust it, or we can stand up to it in such a way that it is the best possible solution. The government must rule in accordance with the rule of law of this country. And even a substantively correct decision must comply with this legal order. This is the basis of the constitutional order of the democratic state, otherwise we are heading for the cause. The state the government has reached can be corrected. And there's no need to deal with this by extending the emergency for a month. I would remind you that the SPD was offering a crisis management expert for a member of the crisis crew after the call of the Prime Minister. In the end, there was no interest, and instead of a crisis expert, the government chose a dentist to join the team. At the same time, it turns out that it is the expertise that is lacking. In this context, I strongly urge all the government-appointed members of the crisis staff not to resolve their disputes through the media. You contribute to people's insecurities. I must mention here the unfortunate role of some media that feed these disputes, and therefore citizens are confused in this crisis situation and do not receive correct and, above all, professionally based information. So the confusion and lack of relevant information in the SPD is putting us in a really bad situation. Because we want to be constructive and we have no reason to oppose just because the government is proposing this, however confused information has been lately. We do not want and will not, of course, boycott measures that can really protect human health and perhaps even lives. Although there is no interest in our experts with international reputation, I will try to give the government a few recommendations and suggestions from this place on behalf of the SPD movement. I strongly ask that we have essential information at this time, that is, at the time of the extension of the emergency situation by seven days, as we propose, that is, by next week at the latest, so that we have vital information from the field testing and information about the state of the promised clever quarantine. [[11.00 hours]] After analysing the overall situation, let us prepare the proposal for the necessary measures to the extent necessary. We consider it essential to control and register borders in order to prevent foreigners from entering from disease-threatening countries and also to prevent the protection of elderly and sick people. If a positive development continues, let us implement the measure without prolonging the emergency. If there is a need for an adjustment to crisis legislation, then suggest it, because at a time of emergency, only the government can propose drafts to the House, and I can promise our support for a quick solution. If the situation, God forbid, gets worse, we prolong the emergency. Finally, I would like to remind the government that strategic steps will be necessary in the period following the immediate management of the pandemic. So far, we only hear things that can be described as debt concepts without restrictions and control. This country is not doing well. This is not only about this government of the ANO movement, but also about governments with the participation of the ODS, ČSSD, KDU-ČSL or TOP 09 that preceded it. We understand that, at a time of crisis, we need to be in debt, but this also requires qualitative changes in the management of state property and taxpayers' money. The view that we will only get the Republic out of the crisis by making a large debt even bigger is completely wrong. It is necessary in the budget to make the recovery cuts proposed by our SPD movement, that is, to end the abuse of unadaptable doses - this bill amendment from the SPD pen has been here for six months - to end the purchase of US expansionary helicopters in 15 billion. Kroner, ending that screwed-up education inclusion, that's about 6 billion. on a yearly basis, end the payment of public money to political non-profit organisations. The SPD movement has absolutely nothing against them, on the contrary, we support non-profit organizations that take care of seniors, children, disabled people, needy fellow citizens, but we strongly reject what the government of YES, ČSSD and KSČM is doing to send money to political non-profits who promote the European Union, multiculturalism, gender and positive discrimination. That doesn't bring anything to a decent and working man. Now we need to regroup the money towards the needy, decent and working people. Furthermore, we propose to reduce support or to best terminate support for solar barons. And here we are happy that the government has already heard ours, I would say, even several years of calling, but in any case in recent months we have intensified the call, and now, especially in connection with this crisis, we have said that it is one of the things that would need to be achieved, and we are glad that yesterday I have already recorded a reaction from the government that will finally begin to discuss it. It's 40 billion here. crowns a year. So that would be useful if we gave this money to our decent and needy citizens. We also propose to withdraw the troops from Afghanistan. I don't know what they're doing in Afghanistan right now, the presence of our soldiers in Afghanistan costs almost three quarters of a billion a year. We need soldiers in the Czech Republic to help, and soldiers have already publicly said that they are ready to help. Or send help to the Greek-Turkish border. This would also be an optimal use, because it is the external Schengen border and Greece is facing an aggressive Turkey and illegal Islamic migrants are also prepared there, so there is also a need for us to take care of our defenses. The overall situation requires a change in strategy, which, in our view, is the absolute superiority of this country's interests. It is necessary to cut costs that do not bring anything to decent and working people. And only the package of measures I presented here is estimated to be over 100 billion from the SPD pen. Crowns. It is the very 100 billion you have increased the debt of the Czech Republic. While the money is in the budget, and we could have solved it normally by regrouping the money, the government would just have to want to cut the money on these useless things, but it doesn't have the courage, but I hope it changes its mind. We must also start with consistent protection of Czech companies and also with consistent protection of the economic interests of the Czech Republic. If we don't do this, other countries and multinational corporations will deal with the crisis at our expense, and all our citizens will pay for it. Speculation in the media has been growing recently regarding the circumstances of purchasing medical supplies without a selection procedure in an emergency. In particular, the public and media speculations that are spreading, and the suspicions that are spreading among the public in this matter, concern the Ministry of the Interior under the direction of Minister Hamáček of the ČSSD. This is a suspicion of overpriced procurement, or, in short, corruption. Such speculation and suspicion, in the opinion of the SPD, need to be verified transparently without unnecessary politicisation. I'm stressing that. So our movement will not support the establishment of some committees in this matter, by which some opposition parties are fencing, but we want the possible investigation to be professional and effective. The SPD seems to be the appropriate solution to investigate these cases by the Supreme Audit Office staff. And we also called for that last week, and according to my information, the Supreme Audit Office will be saving. We therefore propose the following accompanying resolution on this issue after voting on the extension or non-extension of the emergency situation. I don't know how the vote's gonna turn out here in the House. In any case, whether that is the case or not, I am presenting a motion for an accompanying resolution, which is - it is basically one sentence: "The Chamber of Deputies considers it correct to examine the staff of the Supreme Audit Office to be unclear about the implementation of the purchase of medical material in an emergency." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. And I ask the President of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip's word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u10	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I am focusing on the question we are to address, and this is on the question of extending the emergency situation in the Czech Republic. I have to say that I had very much doubts myself about what I should think of the decision of the Municipal Court in Prague, which has drawn upon itself the power to decide which law the government is to decide. After today's decision by the Constitutional Court, which rejected complaints against government measures, it was only confirmed what I thought if the judge had doubts whether the Minister of Health's competence was sufficient, he should have stayed the proceedings and handed the matter over to the Constitutional Court for consideration. This is the reality that our rule of law envisages not only in the Constitutional Court Act but also in the law on courts and judges. Perhaps today we could forgive so much demagogy that we just heard here. With regard to the very extension of the emergency situation, I am convinced that there are several essential things that need to be clarified. What is the disease situation, that is, how we are doing or failing to resolve things. And we can't just be comforted by the fact that we're doing much better than the surrounding countries. Indeed, our number of people infected per 100,000 is very low against neighbouring Austria, Germany, but also against other states. Maybe we're worse off locally. And I have to say that I have so far missed the statement, and I hope that the Minister of Health will say so at least at this meeting, as he will treat Domažlice, or the Domažlicka and Klatovska region, as the Prime Minister said, but also the situation in Prague and Olomouc, where the local measures have not yet produced the complete result, and then we could talk about the fact that some central measures can be abolished and the quarantine measures can really only be done locally. That is what we need to discuss today and what responsibility we will take. [[11.10 hours]] The KSČM club will hear the government's arguments here, and after a brief consultation we will certainly come to some conclusion on how long to support the emergency situation. It is a fact that the decision of the Constitutional Court, which came out this morning, shows a clear relationship between the power of the judiciary and the legislature, which was violated by the judgment of the Municipal Court in Prague. I consider it really excess, which brutally crashed the division of power in the Czech Republic, and I do not wish it to continue, and we should also look into it. With regard to individual measures, I believe that the basic axis, i.e. the site of the disease, the risk, the route and the acceptance of the company are still crucial to us whether or not we are able to take these measures where the disease in the Czech Republic goes out, when we can cancel all measures, whether in connection with or without an emergency situation. With regard to other questions, i.e. the question of buying information systems, where I am not such a blind supporter of clever quarantine, because it does not yet bring us what it could bring to us, and rather I rely on the transmissions of information between a particular regional health station, specific regional hospitals or hospitals in the regions, to be absolutely precise, so as not to confuse the ownership ratios and ratios of the arrangement. And that's where I think maybe it's possible to come to some conclusions faster. It is true that we should also tell ourselves, for the Chamber of Deputies, until we want to say, from the government, drafts of laws that still need to be adopted in a state of legislative emergency, in order to avoid the very excesses that are here in the media space between the judiciary and the legislative power. When it comes to central purchases, use of the army, or even. other measures which are under the jurisdiction of both the Public Health Act and, where appropriate, crisis laws, this needs to be clarified and decided accordingly. I am convinced, although the Chamber of Deputies is meeting from Tuesday next week, that some things, especially the legislative plan for the necessary measures, will not be sufficient for us to change legislation, or the government will probably not get together by Tuesday next week, and I therefore believe that the deadline for extending the emergency situation must be longer. I am mainly based on the way the situation is developing, and although I can be satisfied with the situation in the South Bohemia Region, I understand of course the dangers that are here with the release of individual measures and for example. by not having any restrictions on crossing from one district, such as Slovakia, to another etc., in contrast to Slovakia, so, of course, without local measures for the four areas of increased disease, we also need to look at whether we will bring problems with each other or if you want to return to the crisis situation. I would like it to end as soon as possible, and the KSČM club, after consulting, will submit proposals for resolutions that we want to adopt in connection with the extension of the crisis situation, and to agree on the deadline until when the emergency situation is still available to the Government according to the decision of the House. This does not avoid any other issues such as the issue of central purchasing or buying without a selection procedure, which I really - and I believe the Prime Minister is already agreed with the President of the Supreme Audit Office for specific checks - could help us rid citizens of the concern that there has been some misuse of the emergency situation in trades that would be detrimental to Czech citizens, Czech taxpayers and Czech society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u11	I thank you and ask the president of ČSSD Jan Hamáček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Government, fellow Members, allow me to divide my performance into three areas. At the first, I will try to respond to what has fallen here in the performance of the previous speakers, specifically Vice-President Okamura. I would like to call on President Okamura to do so if he has any suspicion that the purchase of protective equipment is accompanied by corruption, as has fallen on the microphone here, so as to exercise his right to file criminal charges. It's the only right thing to do at this stage. I'm convinced that if they do, the police will take care of this thing and investigate the whole thing. It is possible to throw corruption charges at a microphone here, knowing that she has parliamentary immunity, but it is not fair. If he has information that corruption has taken place in the Ministry of the Interior during purchases, please and I call on him to file a criminal report, and the police will investigate. Of course, I do not prevent the operation of the State and, in particular, the purchase of the State in an emergency situation from being investigated by the Supreme Audit Office. I see no reason for the House of Deputies to call for this, but at the same time I do not see any reason to defend the resolution. But, as President Kala said, the Supreme Audit Office has already changed the control plan so that it can focus on how emergency shopping works, and I for the Home Office say that we are ready to document everything. First of all. Secondly, allow me - and I am sorry that I may bore you a little bit - but allow me to read you a relatively long legal text, which is the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior on the judgment that was handed down by the Municipal Court. I want to read it so that, first of all, it is perfectly clear how the Ministry of the Interior is reacting to this, and second, that the text of the House of Deputies is kept for futuro, as we interpret the current situation and what we base some recommendations on. So now I'm gonna read for a while and thank you for your understanding. On 23 April 2020, the Municipal Court in Prague ruled under the registration mark 14 A 41/2020 on the legality of emergency measures by the Ministry of Health on restrictions on retail sales and restrictions on the free movement of persons. These emergency measures fell within a set of more similar acts issued by the Ministry of Health in order to eliminate the pandemic disease COVID-19. The Court of First Instance annulled the exceptional measures mentioned with effect from 27 April 2020. In the argument of the Municipal Court, the fact that the rule of law of the Czech Republic contains special rules of conduct in situations where the basic conditions of the existence of the state or the life and health of its inhabitants are threatened and it is necessary to create administrative conditions for the return of the "system" to its original state. Under these rules, significant restrictions on fundamental human rights and freedoms are permitted. In view of the degree of such restrictions, the Court considers it necessary for public authorities to rigorously follow these rules, in particular to respect the scope of their competences, since only in this way can the rule of law be maintained. Furthermore, the arguments of the Municipal Court in Prague indicate the boundaries between the states under which crisis measures of the government can be applied under the crisis law and the states under which emergency measures of the Ministry of Health are applied, respectively. public health authorities under the Public Health Act. The Municipal Court in Prague seems to believe that emergency measures of public health authorities should be applied in situations where standard procedures and ordinary legal means are sufficient to deal with them and where rather minor restrictions on fundamental human rights and freedoms are envisaged. In the event that these procedures, means and restrictions for the massiveity of the threat are no longer sufficient, it is appropriate to apply the rules laid down in the constitutional law on the security of the Czech Republic and on the basis of the crisis law and other related legislation. Otherwise, according to the Municipal Court in Prague, the difference between the exceptional situation and the normal situation would disappear. [[11.20 hours]] The Court is evidently based on the principle that the Ministry of the Interior has repeatedly pointed out and expressed in the crisis law in the passage governing the application of the rules of the lowest level of crisis, i.e. the state of danger according to § 3 para. 1. This situation is to be declared in a situation where the threat to life, health, property or the environment cannot be averted by the normal activities of the administrative office, the authorities of the local authorities, the IRS components and critical infrastructure elements. From the logic of the matter, this condition also applies to a more stringent emergency situation. An indication of the boundary between the states under which crisis measures of the government can be applied under crisis law and those under which emergency measures of the public health authorities under the Public Health Protection Act are applicable is a central idea of the judgment of the Registry Mark 14 A 41/2020, which defines the legal framework in which executive powers can move in the elimination of the pandemic of COVID-19. The Municipal Court in Prague points out that the regulation of restrictions on fundamental human rights and freedoms laid down in Sections 5 and 6 of the Crisis Act is based directly on Article 6 of the Constitutional Act on Security of the Czech Republic. Such a special constitutional basis is lacking in the Public Health Protection Act, which can be seen as confirmation that the exceptional measures envisaged by the public health authorities must be substantially less invasive to the extent of intervention in fundamental human rights and freedoms. From the point of view of the Municipal Court in Prague, it is important for the assessment of the applicability of the Public Health Act in a given situation that, contrary to the crisis law, the power of the Chamber of Delimiting Measures, albeit indirectly, is absent, which further confirms the fact that the Public Health Act cannot be a legal basis for implementing measures restricting fundamental rights and freedoms to the extent that the cancelled emergency measures of the Ministry of Health have been taken. Finally, as part of the argument on the boundaries of the application of the crisis measures of the government and the emergency measures of the public health authorities, the Municipal Court in Prague points out that the Act on the protection of public health refers to restrictions in relation to groups of persons and certain areas, which implies that the legislator, in his case, envisaged rather less invasive interventions in fundamental rights and freedoms. On the contrary, from the crisis law, for example § 14 para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (h) there is a clear intention to apply the restrictive measures foreseen by it to the whole territory of the State. The assessment of whether the level of threat reaches such a level where it is no longer possible to avert it by standard procedures, by ordinary legal means and by less significant restrictions on fundamental human rights and freedoms is the responsibility of the government, because only it is competent under the crisis law to declare an emergency. The Municipal Court in Prague has declared that it respects the announcement of the current emergency situation and the reasons for its announcement, but considers that, in such a case, the measures aimed at eliminating the causes of the emergency situation associated with the major restrictions on fundamental human rights and freedoms should be implemented by means of crisis measures of the government, not by extraordinary measures of the Ministry of Health. In the Court's argument, the so-called conversion of the legal regime into a special form and the resulting obligation of all executive authorities to take this into account in their decision-making. The Municipal Court in Prague evaluates the intervention into fundamental human rights and freedoms made through the abolished emergency measures of the Ministry of Health as not small and notes that the Ministry of Health did not have sufficient material capacity to issue them. In the light of the above summary, it can be concluded that restrictions on the free movement of persons and restrictions on retail sales to the extent that emergency measures are provided for by the Ministry of Health repealed by the decision of the Municipal Court in Prague are already beyond what can be characterised as small principles into fundamental human rights and freedoms. At the same time, the scope of the restriction confirms that the level of health threat to be eliminated by these restrictions is much greater than that which can be eliminated by the normal activities of administrative offices and other components. However, if the scope of fundamental human rights and freedoms needs to be reduced, it is necessary to implement them in the regime of those Municipal Courts mentioned special rules, that is, in the regime envisaged by the Constitutional Act on Security of the Czech Republic and by the Emergency Act, namely in emergency conditions and in the form of crisis measures of the government. Although the Municipal Court in Prague has been dealing with only two areas of fundamental restrictions on fundamental human rights and freedoms in connection with the elimination of COVID-19 disease, the conclusions expressed by it can be applied to all measures taken to eliminate the threat of COVID-19 of a similar extent. In short, the conclusions of the Municipal Court in Prague can be summarized in terms of further state action in the fight against the pandemic of COVID-19 disease by defining, in the form of a counterepidemiological measure, primarily the degree of limitation of fundamental human rights and freedoms and other freedoms protected by the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and the secondary possibility or impossibility of carrying out counterepidemiological measures by ordinary activities of administrative offices and other components. If, in view of the current recommendations of experts for the suppression of the disease epidemic, it is necessary to regulate the entry into the Czech Republic and, at the same time, restrict certain activities, including economic activity, or, on the contrary, to impose certain activities, it is clear that there are not insignificant restrictions on the freedom of residence, the right of assembly, the right to raise funds for their living needs, or the right to engage in other economic activities, the prohibition of forced and services and the right to property. However, such restrictions cannot be implemented by the view of the Municipal Court, with which the Ministry of the Interior identifies itself, by exceptional measures of the Ministry of Health outside the emergency regime. In other words, the existence of an emergency is a necessary condition for such measures to be implemented. The level of intervention is such that it goes beyond the legal framework in which power itself can be exercised under the ordinary control of legislative and judicial power and requires a special supervision of the Chamber of Deputies in the form of the approval of the duration of an emergency situation, as foreseen in Article 5 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 constitutional law on security of the Czech Republic. Only less invasive measures can be imposed by extraordinary measures by the Ministry of Health, such as wearing drapes in public, which do not require any other than a standard degree of supervision by legislation and justice. Thus, on the basis of the recommendations of epidemiologists, the government has prepared a plan for the gradual cessation of those restrictive measures, which constitute a significant intervention in the aforementioned rights protected by the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, setting the deadline for such easing on 25 May 2020. The logic of the matter is at the same time the date on which the emergency situation should be terminated. After that date, the government is primordializing the application of only less invasive restrictive measures, and thus the transition from combating the pandemic of COVID-19 disease by exceptional means and by the above-standard deployment of administrative offices and other components to the deployment of basically classic means within the normal functioning of public authority with the crucial participation of public health authorities. However, maintaining the maximum effectiveness of the restrictive measures adopted for their coherence and cross-compliance requires that this be released in a coordinated and logical manner. Premature termination is expected with the effect that it is expected to demolish from the dislodgement of restrictive measures spread out from the instigation of public health authorities within four weeks, as rapid dislodgement in all areas can create an ideal conundrum for the re-enlargement of COVID-19 disease. In this case it would be necessary again to tighten the restrictive measures and restore more forceful intervention in the rights and freedoms protected by the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, which would be necessary from the point of view of the Ministry of the Interior, but in a broader context problematic. I am very sorry that I have been reading for so long, but I believe that this is a very balanced and comprehensive text that says what situation we are in. And according to the case-law of the Municipal Court in Prague, we have two options in principle. Either. The Chamber of Deputies will comply with the government's request for an extension of the emergency situation, and the government will be able to comply with the delay schedule as presented, with the fact that the last measures of a major impact, in quotation marks, which are also mentioned in the City Court's judgment, will end on 25 May and, after 25 May, the government will be able, provided that we are able to cope with the situation, the fight against the epidemic is managed by measures of the Ministry of Health, which do not have such a vital reach to limit human rights, and therefore the schedule proposed by the Government will be followed, or the Chamber of Deputies will choose another method, that means, that the emergency situation will not extend at all, or extend it for some other time, and then I say that the government has, by principle, the only option, of course, to comply with the verdict of the Chamber of Deputies and respect that, at the end of the emergency situation, all the restrictions to which the Municipal Court of Prague considers as having a fundamental effect on the limitation of human rights, are simply said today, mainly that the government regulation restricting the presence of citizens in shops, it means, restricts. [[11.30 hours]] If I simplify this, the date on which the emergency situation ends is the date of the final release of measures in the fight against the epidemic in the Czech Republic. The government has presented a timetable that gives this date on 25 May. If the Chamber of Deputies decides to move this date forward, it also determines, to some extent, when the essential measures will be released, and any date before 25 May means that the Chamber of Deputies has decided to release these measures more quickly than the Government recommends, respectively. Before she's recommended by expert teams. And please in full conclusion. I have listened very carefully to the speeches of my fellow Members from the Chamber of Deputies in the relationship of how the government should deal with this. I am glad that even an honored organization such as State Reconstruction accepted the fact that the House will not avoid extending the emergency situation for at least a minimum period of time. But then I ask ourselves whether we are willing to accept the other recommendations that are falling here, that is, to deal with things outside the emergency situation by any ad hoc amendments either to the Public Health Act or the Crisis Act, which, by the way, recommends the reconstruction of the state. I believe that in a situation where we have an emergency situation in which we have a crisis currently under way, it is not entirely wise to run some media, political and legal DIY and start redoing the crisis law. That's a thing I consider very dangerous and not entirely productive. I would prefer to stick to the legal standards that we have approved, which may be tried by another disaster, but they are tried, and to evaluate the situation after we have managed the epidemic and to say what needs to be changed, what needs to be adjusted, if necessary. But from what I've read here, and from what I've said here, from my point of view, if we don't want to be a world unique and we don't want to be one. 5. all measures against the spread of the epidemic to abolish and return this country in principle to the state that ruled here last December, so we must extend the emergency situation. And the government says that according to the timetable, as recommended by experts, and by the way, it has been accelerated against the original recommendation, so the last key limitations covered by the City Court's judicature fall on 25 May. Therefore, it makes no sense for me to vote or support the extension of the emergency situation a shorter period, except, of course, the reasons which are political, and I leave this to the consideration of the Chamber of Deputies. However, in substance, if we want to follow the timetable that is approved, and if we want the last major measures to unwind on 25 May, we should now support what the government wants and what it proposes to you as the Chamber of Deputies, extending the emergency situation until 25 May. Thank you for your attention. I'm sorry I've been talking for so long, but I thought it was important that this text be recorded in the Steno Protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u13	I thank the Minister of the Interior, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Chair of Social Democracy. Now, Mr Marian Jurečka with his speech, Mrs Pekarová Adamová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u14	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister - I do not know if leaving, members of the government, Mr President, colleagues, allow me, too, for KDU-ČSL, for our club, to say our point of view on the very important subject that we are discussing today. [[The Prime Minister rises from his seat]] I know that thousands of people are watching our actions. I believe that even most of you hundreds of people have written their opinions and a view of whether to end or prolong an emergency. In fact, we also decide what the quality of people's lives in this country will be. On the one hand, people who are worried are at risk, one of the chronically ill people with reduced immunity, etc., who write to me and have a legitimate fear for their health and say, we would like to see measures here in the next few days that give us the feeling that we are more protected. I understand their concerns. I think that for every responsible politician, it is first for us to be able to ensure the health of our people, for whom we are responsible and for which we are here as their representatives. On the other hand, on the other hand, people who have legitimate concerns and say, we are worried about our future, we are concerned about how we can support ourselves, our families, our children, our loved ones in the coming weeks, pay their claims, the roof over our heads, etc., and these concerns are absolutely appropriate, and they are very concerned about how they will exist in the coming months and years. It is not easy for them, and I understand these concerns very much, and I am trying to find some sensible solution between these opinions on the scales, which we should be pursuing here today. I think if we look at the concerns of those people who are really dealing with their future, they're saying there's been a month and a half of a state where we know there are groups of people who haven't been able to remember the government's compensatory measures so far. These are people who work on agreements, people who work in small eseros, people who are Pendlers and cannot travel for their work, or parents who are simply treated at the level at which we approved it, maybe during the month of March it simply does not cover paying their claims, their bills and invoices. Our parents, the single moms, they say, are out of business, and the twenty-five, which is so medially spoken of, isn't CZK 25,000 a month. It's CZK 15,000 a month. And to be able to support three children with a income of CZK 15,000 as a parent is certainly not an easy situation. And many of them have a big moral problem to go and ask for social benefits somewhere, because they say, we've been paying taxes to this state for 15-20 years, we never wanted anything, but we'd like it to be in this situation that he doesn't turn his back on us and he's been able to offer us a helping hand. They do not want to compensate 100 percent, but they want at least part of the costs they bear to be able to pay with the help of the state. So that is why it is very important for us now to weigh on imaginary scales how we will relax and how we will prolong the emergency. I must say that most of the people I speak to and I personally understand many of these measures. And here I agree with the Prime Minister's statement, which said we won the first half of 1:0. Yes, we were part of a group of states that could do it better, didn't collapse the health and social system, people on the front line were able to make a huge commitment, and where the government wasn't able to keep up in the first few weeks, so a nation that could sew drapes, make shields, etc. and he was able to distribute them among himself, and he proved by a tremendous wave of solidarity that we care about neighborly people. But I have to say, many of these people say that we don't understand much about some of the measures anymore. They sometimes do not understand the logic of why hobby markets open, but why some small stores with a type-like type of goods are closed or opened with a 14-day delay. They don't understand why in supermarkets until yesterday, where clothes were sold, so you could try it, you can't try it from this Monday. Many people do not understand the logic of limiting and closing churches, which are now opened by the number of 15 people, etc. For example, in the next Austria, I think the government has chosen a more sensible definition and said, it will be judged by the area of the church, when one person should be on 20 square meters. It's absurd for svatý John's Cathedral. The Vít with its flat and kubatura was tied in these days, when I talk about it here, to 15 visitors to the service. I must say that many people do not even understand the discussions that are being held here, for example, about saving ČSA, when people say, there are hundreds of thousands of people, entrepreneurs, businessmen, endangered jobs that the government does not adequately address from our point of view. But in the meantime, we're talking about whether to buy Czech Airlines and save themselves or not. I can hardly explain that to people as a politician. And I have to say, I'm sorry that a large part of the proposals KDU-ČSL has put forward here - and we have gone out in the mouth to meet the Prime Minister's appeal, which he said, let's be on the same boat, let's pull together. I've been trying to communicate and give constructive suggestions. And I must say that I was really surprised and very sorry about the press conference of government officials last week, where it was said on a flat-rate basis that the opposition and the Senate are spoiling government measures here, that we are unconstructive, we are just criticizing etc. When the question of the tax rules was also mentioned here that Members and Senators screwed up the Smart Taxes project, etc., the main reason why it didn't pass was that, at this time, when we were dealing with leaving funds for businessmen, forgiving advances, extending deadlines, there was the main stumbling block that the government suggested that the government would hold the VAT to its entrepreneurs for another 15 days. That was the main reason we didn't support it. Otherwise, those measures that are based on client access to entrepreneurs in this country, we strongly support them. [[11.40 hours]] We have presented a lot of proposals for KDU-ČSL here at the end of March. A motion to increase the infirmary to 80 percent. We were giving suggestions that remembered the people who were on the bargains, the little eseros, the pendlers. We have made proposals here to pay VAT only on those invoices that are paid. We've been giving proposals to postpone VAT payments for up to a year without charging those entrepreneurs with the 8 percent they're charging today. And many other proposals that, I must say, I'm sorry they didn't pass. And while the government is gradually returning to them, I'm glad for that, but there's no time limit. Moreover, many entrepreneurs have also said so far that we feel from these measures that it is such a delayed autumn insolvency. When we look to other states, there are direct concrete aids, non-refundable subsidies that those entrepreneurs receive very quickly and operationally. Today, when the Minister of Finance speaks, he says: there are 1.2 trillion crowns of aid offered by the government to the business sector. But it must be translated into Czech. Most of this amount of 1.2 trillion crowns of pledges, guarantees for loans. In other words, the state says: for most measures, dear businessman, you have a problem, you have been closed, your activity could not work, go to a commercial bank to borrow. But he forgets that, for example, many entrepreneurs who invest and have high depreciations have a problem that even commercial banks with those guarantees won't want to lend them some. I will specifically mention farmers buying agricultural land, so they will have a big problem in order to possibly obtain such loans with the state guarantee at all. I must say that when I read the material at today's meeting, there were about three pages of justification for extending the emergency until May 25. Then there was a long presentation for which I thank you, which actually showed that the Covid pandemic is fighting very well in the Czech Republic and in the last days, say at least ten days, there is a very positive development. Thank you for speaking here, Minister of the Interior Hamáček, and in his speech he said a lot of other arguments that I would expect to be on the explanatory report on this point that has been sent to us. But I have to say, if we look at the government schedule and the plan that we talk about so often, he's taking measures in four steps: April 20, April 27, May 11 and May 25. The first two steps follow a week, the second two steps up to 14 days. A week ago, on Wednesday, we were witnessed here in the House, when representatives of the government and representatives of the coalition Members told us that it was impossible to speed up the relaxing measures, and not even within 24 hours, the government acted in a fundamental way overfilling the strategy of the dislodgement. And that, of course, is awkward for many people who are dependent on planning, how they will start to function in the relaxing process, too, when it is done in such haste. I would like the government to consider whether, perhaps, some of these measures cannot be modified parametrically and done even earlier. At the same time, however, there are many activities, disciplines, which are not mentioned at all and only there is a note that they will be discussed another time, later, and so on. But for example, operators of summer grounds, camps, cultural events have large question marks, which simply need to be solved ideally already in this time period. Maybe even summer camps can be trivial. But I admit that when the government says through the mouth of the Minister of Health that summer camps aren't until August, and I hear the Prime Minister on the radio this weekend saying, "but I wish it was from July," I, who I've been doing, like, ten years of children's camps, actually have to say, I'm pretty confused about it. And I do not envy today's organizers and even those parents who plan - and their employers - vacations and so on. So please, let's try to remember these fields too, and these activities that affect thousands of people in this country. We will design for KDU-ČSL and support the extension of the emergency for ten days. Ten days for several reasons. Yes, we see this decision by the Municipal Court, which has clearly declared and said that it does not contradict the need for governments to take fundamental steps to protect the health and population of this country, but that it is necessary for these actions to be taken in accordance with applicable legislation and applicable laws. And I am aware that if an emergency had ended on May 1st, it would have been a problem for many disciplines and for some functioning within state administration. We need to realise that there is also a need for a gradual transition in the area of emergency medical supplies. Those subjects who have this centrally secured today need to get back on top of their standard purchases. We need to talk about what further legislative steps need to be implemented for the further effective functioning of this state. But I have to say that it is important for us, and I will propose it as an accompanying resolution, so that if we extend the emergency situation after 1 May onwards - we will see which option will pass, it looks like there is probably a coalition majority here, thanks to a change in the view of the Communists for May 25 - but to purchase health aids under the Public Procurement Act as of May 1. Because the question marks that are around the purchases - and we're talking about the amount that should be close to 13 billion crowns - so the question marks are really quite serious. There is also a need to create space for the government to communicate with our neighbours as well as within the European Union to coordinate those steps in the dispersal of borders. It's not just about the Pendlers, it's not just about the labor force, it's also about the specific families and their stories. On the Czech-Slovak border I get every day stories about what problems this causes in family coexistence, such as parent care, grandparents and so on. It is also important for the state to make it clear how this will work in the field of education. I must say that the proposal has the impression that schools will simply serve as babysitting, but the parents, or the teachers, who will guard the children there, will continue to teach the rest of the class remotely. So many educators tell me that this is a logically incomprehensible model for them, but even functionally I can't imagine how they will manage this in a situation where they may still have children at home who also have to tutor and are needed at second degrees. So I would like to ask the government to do something about it and to specify it. And I also have an important request here. It is important for the Government and the Security Council of the State to define what stocks of protective health aids will be in the Administration of State Material Reserves. Because if we end the central supply here, some part of the goods will go to those health or social care providers, and some part of the goods will probably stay in the warehouses of the state's material reserves. And it can come in the coming months in the autumn and in the future maybe a second wave and I would like this state to be much better prepared for the situation. This means that the government redefines the amount of strategic stocks of protective equipment, disinfectants and things associated with pandemics, so that we are prepared much better next time. And now it's time for the government to do it. Finally, I would also like to appeal that, if necessary, the Prime Minister and the members of the government should start communicating with us, with the opposition. Yes, there were two meetings with the Prime Minister and members of the government with representatives of all parties here in the Chamber of Deputies. And it would be good to get back to that, because we've only had our first half. This country will need swift, effective measures to get out of this crisis so that society, the economy and the structures of our state can function. And, as I was saying, we need to complete the dispersal program and the disciplines that we don't remember so far, end their uncertainty as far as possible. Solve compensatory support programmes for those groups of residents, entrepreneurs who so far are failing the network, because even behind this are hundreds of thousands of jobs that are really at risk. Prepare a massive investment program, how it will stand in its investments, possibly in support of the regions and municipalities, to support us here with concrete investment incentives to promote jobs and the development of our companies. And I also appeal very much to, to communicate and to discuss within the EU those measures that may be of mutual benefit. [[11.50 hours]] I had a video conference last week, where the leaders of some EU countries, including Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, Chief of the Ursula von der Leyen Commission, Donald Tusek and others, were. There was clear information that the EU is ready to invest massively and support Member States' economies this year and, at least in the next two years, really massive support from the EU budget. Germany has clearly declared that it is ready to increase its contribution to this budget. So the degree of willingness, solidarity with the Member States, is quite high here. And it is necessary to be here actively and cooperate. I would like to ask that we also be able to define the new strategic fields of this state. Change the law on public procurement so that we can not only put these strategies on paper, but also really implement them in state policy and individual ministries. And a complete conclusion. We're talking about the time and the pandemic of coronavirus. There's a matter of emergency involved. But I would like to appeal very much to the government, that, even in those decisions that it does in the area of strengthening the budget of the various chapters, we should not leave not only the citizens of this country dry, but this country as such. The threat of drought and climate change associated with this is indeed a very serious situation. Even today, at this point, from the data we have, it turns out that the effects of drought are the greatest in the last 500 years. Team Intersucha points it out. And the state of precisely intelligent policy of its investment measures into the landscape, can support not only small and medium-sized domestic companies, but solve the burning problem of water shortages not only for farmers, but for residents, for households, for industry. I ask a nice government not to leave our people dry in all our thinking, in all our falls. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u15	Thank you to President Marian Jurečka. Now, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, a colleague of Rakušan will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor. Dear members of the government, honourable colleagues, honourable public, we are discussing an extraordinary matter. The state of emergency is of its nature quite extraordinary, and therefore it should only take a very, very long time. The justification for each other's next day out of this emergency, i.e. emergency situation, should therefore be precise and actually very well processed. However, I must say that the material that we have all received for today's discussion is completely inadequate and does not provide important information. Indeed, many of the data that are there are publicly available printed tables, but the real taxative listing of those measures which will still have to be paid under emergency conditions and which are therefore requested by the House of Government are not mentioned at all. I have to appreciate - and I am glad that I am only performing now that the speech of the Minister of the Interior has already been heard, because at least he is the only one who has tried to justify more in his speech why, in his opinion and opinion, his ministry still needs an emergency at this time. But even the list he read here, which was therefore an opinion, the legal opinion of the court, did not contain a number of information. It did not contain clearly, completely and completely without any, let's say, conditions that the government really considers necessary at the moment to maintain. Because we're always moving around here in certain examples, one, two, and we never really have that information complete. We'd like to see black and white really stand before us today, because otherwise we're just here to hunt for information from individual performances, from individual resolutions, websites and also from the interviews that are in the media. And that is completely inadequate and unacceptable for such crucial decisions. I am when we discussed the emergency situation last time, but even though we had one of the few meetings that took place between the government, virtually. Mr. Prime Minister and the opposition, she made her proposal, namely to create a website, one address for which all citizens and, of course, we will get all the information. And in such an understandable form and in such an exhausting way that no one will have to grope. It is also now a great demand for all the injured by entrepreneurs and businessmen, but of course it is also a requirement for all those who need to be employed and need some help to know who to turn to, what to ask for, what to ask for, that they have a complete list of the aids that exist. And unfortunately, to this day, there is no such one repository of all this information. It would be the least possible and the easiest thing the government can do. In general, data and information are crucial in making decisions about something as crucial as extending the emergency situation and such as those relating to measures to combat the epidemic. And as the case shows yesterday's day, unfortunately, even those who are in the individual teams are not in the government's advisory teams. Then I ask if even those who are addressed to such cooperation will not be able to see them, and instead they will see the door slamming, as the public comes, citizens who, of course, also have the right to this data and information, have the right to know them. On what basis does the government decide? Let me give you an example. Last week, I wanted us to place a point on a clever quarantine. I really wanted to learn more about how the pilot project turned out. So how can we, with this instrument, which is often referred to as quite crucial in order to gradually release the measures and return to at least a partially more normal life, as it has therefore come to pass. The clever quarantine has been promised many times as a crucial measure, and the pilot programme should work for several weeks now, if I'm not mistaken, the fourth. However, there is still no evaluation available. We learn nothing but piece of information, even under our great pressure, which remains unheard of. Likewise, we know that countries that have handled the situation well and could also be an inspiration, such as South Korea, Taiwan and others that have experienced the crisis before, so, apart from the smart quarantine instruments, they have taken much more extensive testing, much more of the tests that have been carried out. At the end of March, we heard from the Prime Minister that ten thousand to twenty thousand tests a day will be carried out very soon. So far, we haven't come close to this number. I wonder why. I wonder why these predictions are not finally fulfilled here. We also know from these countries, but not only from them, but they are also words from some experts, that if we want to release measures, except for the very massive testing, the route that is to be done with the help of a clever quarantine, it is necessary to protect risk groups. The protection of risk groups is nothing in our basement, which we have at our disposal today. There is no indication of how the government wants to approach these risk groups, how they will get to the protective aids that the regime will be used, which is a number of details to which we would like to know the answers. So there are no more than three aspects of a more general justification in the background. We do not find answers to many of the questions that have already been raised. I remind you that when we were discussing the past, we asked the questions here from all sides, and that may be the error of the fact that, in fact, the points that we have today as follows after this could bring answers to, for example, the area of protective equipment. The way the government plans to continue dealing with them. We have information that took place on the Health Committee here in the House that it should therefore be available for several weeks, if not months for key hospitals. We have information from the media from some members of the government that the situation - if the emergency situation is not further prolonged and protective equipment will be purchased under the standard regime, under the Public Procurement Act - will significantly deteriorate and de facto this is a huge threat. These are all legitimate things that should be part of the evidence. Unfortunately, they're not. [[12.00 hours]] Just as it is important for people to follow individual measures, so it is very important that the government does not gamble with the confidence that people give it. And I must appreciate the fact that, while there are many reasons for trusting in the last few weeks, people are still very responsible. But even people, logically, are running out of patience. They ask and want to know why the government has decided that, for example, bicycles and hobby markets can be opened before Easter, but some others, which have a much easier option to limit the number of buyers, some other shops, have not opened. People ask for details. Details of implementation of individual measures. And unfortunately, there are a number of answers to that. I don't think we should gamble with that confidence. One of our key conditions in the past emergency extension solution was a strategy as the government wants to move forward. Some kind of plan. It's been repeated here in a lot of posts. We all cling to getting better information based on scripts. There are some indications of scenarios in today's material. Thank you for that, for something. But there is clearly no attempt to explain to people and to us as legislators, who are to decide how these scenarios will be dealt with. That means when it eventually reaches back to the brake, what happens when the script is filled, which is perceived as the blackest. What precautions? And I'm going back to the beginning. What specific measures will have to be reactivated and taken, even from those that have already been released and abolished. This plan should be provided here, otherwise it is not possible to make a responsible decision to extend the emergency situation. You know, the debate here is often more of a monologue. We hear a contribution from individual ministers, but then the response to our questions and a whole range of specific comments will not be heard. And I'm asking here to answer the questions that we're asking here. This was not the case at the last meeting that dealt with the emergency, so I firmly hope that this time the government will no longer stick its head in the sand and play this game with us for hiding and that individual ministers will answer questions. That we will know what the plan is for further purchase of protective equipment if the central purchase is cancelled. That we'd know how to protect the risk groups. That we'd know how to track it and how to test it. That we will have information about what the regime will be like at the border, that we will not learn from one minister or deputy, that at least some countries such as Croatia and beyond are planning to travel, but that we will have concrete information about what the next steps will be in this area. You know, it's hard to gain that trust when the Prime Minister often lies in his conversations and tells the truth. One of the basics from which he was convicted quite recently is when he claimed in his interview for Lightning that he had specific data on his desk to decide on the release of individual measures and the start of individual establishments. When journalists asked him to have this data and to have it, the Office of the Government was unable to release it. So it's quite clear that there's a lot of surgery here, and it's not the only case, but I'm just saying this as an example, it often operates with the fact that data exist, that data is available, but then we learn that it's not true. And one of the big worries that a lot of entrepreneurs have is that even here, we're dealing with a number of aids that are already a state today... Either we've pushed them through. The opposition often came up with these proposals before the government did. So people are really going to be entitled to some kind of compensation for their damage. Of course, we are aware that there is no saturation or that there is no way to replace the profits that have gone to the companies. That's why I'm saying right now, if someone's gonna operate here with the opposition wanting profits to be bailed out at that point, it's nonsense. We realize that's not possible. But what is possible is to give people more confidence that they really will receive damage compensation, and in the case of many businesses and companies, the damage is really small. TOP 09 here repeatedly comes up with suggestions on how to help directly compensate for one of the highest fixed costs that most companies and entrepreneurs have, and these are rents. We came up with several options, compromise variants. We've been pushing for a different rate of compensation here to help companies stay alive and open even after the worst phase of the crisis is over. Unfortunately, neither the government nor any of these proposals nodded and did not support it. That's why I think it should be a minimum, and we're still going to try to enforce it, but it should still be a minimum from the government to prepare a special compensation law. This law should bring certainty to people that they will really be able to ask for compensation. This law is based on a pattern that we already know from the past here, and that's Law No. 12/2002 Coll., on State aid for the restoration of the territory of the affected natural or other disaster. At that time, it was floods. I'm sure it's no concern of all of us to put some sectors on our shoulders and let them bleed to death. But so far, unfortunately, because of the lack of help, it is happening. And if one of those aids and the loan covered by the state is rejected by these entities because banks are afraid that these entities are going to go bankrupt anyway, then there is the possibility to put more certainty into this process, because this law - and I do not tell the government how to specify it specifically, as far as the aid rate is concerned, I really leave it up to it to it - so such a law would really provide certainty among entrepreneurs that they are entitled to something. Although they will be able to sue, under the crisis law, they really are entitled to damages, but these litigations will be so many, so many thousands that they would devour justice for many years. And if we do not deal with this in the form of a very clear concrete law that would compensate for the damage caused by the coronation crisis, then perhaps some justice will be here after many years, but it will not actually be eaten, it will be too late and their businesses will have long gone bankrupt. I think that is the minimum that we should ask today to extend the emergency situation in order to be able at all to support the government in this purpose. I therefore propose an accompanying resolution on today's resolution, where the Government of the Chamber of Deputies will be ordered to submit to the Chamber of Deputies, by 30 May 2020, a draft law laying down the right of natural and legal persons to compensation for the damage caused to them in the cause of the crisis measures adopted by the Government under Act No. 240/2000 Coll., on crisis management and amending certain laws, i.e. crisis law, and exceptional measures adopted by the Ministry of Health pursuant to Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the protection of public health and on the amendment of certain related laws in connection with the resolution of the crisis situation caused by the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic in the Czech Republic. It is so general, but at the same time it gives such certainty to companies, but also to natural persons, entrepreneurs, that it should really be enough to consider many of them exercising their claims through litigation. [[12.10 hours]] I think we would also dispel the fear and suspicion of many by this step that the step taken by the government, that it first decided under the crisis law, and then suddenly under the Public Health Act, which the court has now thrown off the table, was only a step to... I can't think of a decent word right now. But it's with individual companies and entities that she should just blow up. Well, let me put it this way, I'm sorry for the unkind, not quite a decent expression. But from some members of the government, or the Prime Minister, we know from the past that he uses even worse, which would probably be even more appropriate. This is the minimum that we consider important so that we can raise our hand to prolong the emergency. Even if I say that we will certainly not support the deadline that the government is asking for, that is, May 25th. Finally, allow me to call on the government to further coordinate its actions in the context of the easing of the rules, but also in the context of the resolution of the crisis with other countries, at least with the countries with which we are neighbouring. It is quite logical, but I believe that greater coordination should take place within the EU. This is because there is just a virus in the whole EU territory at the moment and we need to be able to find common solutions. In order to be relevant and not to see that by relaxing the situation in one country, the problem will start again on a larger scale, affecting the surrounding countries as well. I think that's the basis that should start working at this point, if it hasn't worked yet. We live in one territory, and sometimes the bigger problem is that we cross here within one country than, for example, within a cross-border, close one. This is seen in our borders with countries such as Slovakia, where the situation is even better, and yet there are more strict rules, and yet we demand more from those who would like to go elsewhere to their loved ones, to their relatives, often families in these regions are spread among several states. It is therefore important to coordinate with neighbouring countries, too, very carefully and very intensively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u17	That was Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Now the President of the Rakušan. And Minister Adam Vojtěch will prepare himself. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u18	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, members and members of the Government, Prime Minister, colleagues, I would like to ask you something at the beginning of my speech. I would ask you not to consider the debate we hold at the Chamber of Deputies plenary as an act of hostility. Sometimes when we look at the government benches, we see a lack of focus and some contempt for opposition Members speaking here. We see many times in the ranks of Members who simply shake their heads over the fact that perhaps someone is stalling and so on. Please, even in this time of crisis, which is objectively here, let us not consider parliamentary debate as something redundant, something unnecessary. If we are able to do this in this difficult test, we will help democracy first and secondly help people in the Czech Republic who will see and feel that their elected representatives in Parliament across the political spectrum are simply looking for solutions that are good for them. Let us not, please, pass on to the people of our country at this difficult time when we are to demonstrate unity, a scheme that the government has shown many times. We, the government, protect the people, and they, the evil opposition, may be trying to put you in danger, throwing you under the bus and trying to keep this country from working. It's not like that. And it's not that objective. And look at the results of the vote. Look at the fact that the opposition supported the restrictive measures at the beginning of this crisis. We raised our hands for this, we were willing to discuss the extent and length of each measure, and there was no one against which we would have defined ourselves. As the Prime Minister said, and I would like to appreciate it, in my speech at the beginning, we are all in this together and together we have also made it through the first phase. It's not like there's a government that's trying to help people, and there's an opposition that's trying to do the opposite. On the contrary, remember also those moments when the corona crisis broke out in the world and the opposition tried with some advance to start a debate here in the House about what the epidemic, the pandemic at that time, was still not European, but the world, could bring to the Czech Republic risks. And at that time, government Members simply did not vote for this debate to be open at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. There's one thing we need to realize. We all live in this country regardless of our political affiliation. We are in historical times, at a time which, of course, also enrolls in history books, and we are experiencing a historic milestone together. As generations before, they had a common experience of war, as they had a common experience of regime change, so we have a common experience of something that no generation faced before us. It is important to remember that all of us have our sick acquaintances, we all have businessmen in our neighborhood who find themselves on the edge or beyond the edge of existential problems. Some of us have older parents we're worried about. We have children and, of course, we worry about their safety and health. And that's the word fear may be crucial at the moment. The word fear is a fundamental attribute of today's day. And how do you face that fear? We have an enemy we don't know, and scientific knowledge is not yet far enough to anticipate his actions. We all cheer and we must appreciate scientists not only in the Czech Republic, but also here, of course, but everywhere in the world, who try to come up with a solution that simply protects people. That's the fear we can't avoid, because it's gonna take a while to get to know our enemy, and we're gonna be able to face him through these scientific paths. But then there's a second kind of fear that we can face in some way. It is the fear of the unknown that we can face by providing information in the most clear form, when we will always provide information with a clear explanation. The steps of the political elite, in this case the government, will not seem chaotic, but will act as a clear scenario, and will give people confidence that they are safe and in good hands at the moment. Unfortunately, I feel that sometimes as a government, you are satisfied that people are willing to accept anything right when they are afraid. That they are willing to accept many restrictions on their fundamental rights, guaranteed by the Constitution as well. That they are willing to take such measures, sometimes without any explanation that they would never normally take. I sometimes feel that the government is taking advantage of this, rather than trying to face the fears in people with clear information, the transparency of its decisions, the clarity of its statements. We simply reject this philosophy from the beginning. And that may be the basis of our debates here in the House. From the beginning, we want the information to be as clear as possible, to be presented in an understandable form. And we have some examples that we could stick to at this point. Take, for example, how Germany informs its citizens. See what information service looks like on the Bundestag website about what measures the government is currently promoting and what measures will still be required of people in the coming days and months. I beg you, and that's the basis of our discussion, let's not use the time that's critical to all of us, to dig in the company of the ditch. To divide society into us - the government, and you - the opposition. It's not like that. It's not like you're gonna say, "We did." Yes, and we can add to that: and we have supported you so far. It's not like you're gonna say, "We sent money." I mean, the money isn't yours. That money is the last taxpayer in every village, every city, every working man in that country who takes them out on their taxes. This is our money and let us please learn to understand this time always so that we are here, and use the possessive pronoun of ours. [[12.20 hours]] We are in a situation where the government has committed a legal error. I have a certain understanding of it, because the time is really unprecedented and hectic. I won't even mention that if you look at the tapes from the previous meetings, we pointed out this as opposition and asked the Minister whether it was possible to proceed under the Public Health Act at this time. It's done. But the government at that moment, instead of coming up with some clear apology and a clearly formulated request, came up with an attack: The opposition is throwing us a stick! But it's not like that again! You, at this point in legal chaos, are coming in with a request to prolong the emergency. Well, that's all you have to do. But at this point, when you made a mistake, we expected that the explanatory report would be full of arguments. It will be full of clear reasons and scenarios. It's not. We expected such sentences, arguments and scripts to be heard in the Prime Minister's speech. They didn't. We wanted to hear from you which measures that affect the constitutional rights of people in the Czech Republic must continue to be maintained in this particular, atypical, unconventional and exceptional emergency state. We didn't get the answer. Nevertheless, as a club of Members of the STAN, we come with a courtesy to the government and I ask the Vice-President to take this as a proposal from the STAN, in order to extend the emergency situation to 10. 5. It is a date that gives the government time to create sufficient scenarios and information comfort for us, which gives the government the opportunity not to fall from one day to the next, and that is the most important - the health and lives of people in the Czech Republic. At the same time, we're going to want something from you. We're gonna want to hear what the results of the field testing are. We will want to hear what his strategy is, what his methodology is, whether the approach he selected, which was essentially a random sample of people who came from the street, was the most appropriate one, whether it is not necessary to have different age classes represented in the case of field testing, whether it is necessary to have different layers of people represented according to their residence and origin. And maybe it is, but we don't know. And that's the basic problem that we've been criticizing all this time, sitting here until midnight last week, asking Minister Havlíček what are the relaxing scenarios so that we don't get any answers, and the next day at the government press conference, they were informed from the media in some flat form. For the next one, we're going to ask you for positive and negative scenarios. What's the data? What are the methods? What are the models you're leaning on? What is it that you relate to your decisions? It's the number of new infections, is it the number of cured ones? It is the number of those who have already acquired in our company called. collective immunity? Are these the test results? What do you make of your decisions? And we want to hear a positive and negative scenario. We all hope that despite the reckless opening of the hobby markets, the situation will develop well. On the other hand, there may be a negative scenario. But even people in the Czech Republic should be aware of it. I'm begging you. This is nothing more than a request for you to come to the next session of the Chamber of Deputies. Next, we will ask you not only about the history of securing protective equipment, how shopping was done and so on, but we will ask you whether the aids are secured for the possible onset of any second wave epidemic in autumn. Whether the Ministry of Industry and Trade has a clear strategy after the central purchase of aids no longer works, how to address and motivate Czech companies to be able to largely meet the demand that can come. Are there any support projects for Czech companies that distribute protective equipment, which the Ministry of Industry and Trade is working on? Once again, a clear question can be answered. For the next one, we'll ask you to hear a longer-term economic development plan. What we have now is recovery measures. But we want to hear a vision. A vision of how the Czech Republic will become, but also our economy will evolve at a time that will come after the epidemic. Next, we'll want to hear about the results of the Smart Quarantine Project. We, as the club of STAN, have been proposing a committee here to control a clever quarantine, it's been swept off the table that there's no need for such a thing, but we haven't heard from a clever quarantine since. And we believed her as a product. It is something that could gradually allow restrictive measures to be released without introducing measures that slow the economy and hinder them in their normal lives for all. And in conclusion, I would like to ask you once more. Let us now, at this time, prove here in the Chamber of Deputies that we can be "we." Not us and them, but that, in times of crisis, it is really us who are trying to help citizens in the Czech Republic, entrepreneurs, endangered people, seniors, pensioners, employees to prove that we will bring them a solution that will lead them out of the crisis. Let's let people know openly and clearly, let's stick to the law during this crisis period, because it may be more important than ever. The laws and principles of parliamentary democracy, when we will continue to perceive at this time that Parliament is not some body that throws a stick at someone, but it is the very foundation of parliamentary democracy and simply and simply fulfills its control role, which is also his part of the Constitution's diction. Adherence to legality and democratic principles is perhaps more important in times of crisis than in times of peace and quiet. Let us try and show that we can talk openly, sometimes conflictedly, but always in the interests of citizens of the Czech Republic, their health and lives! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u19	Thank you, Mr Rakušan. We are now continuing with the speech of Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch and will prepare the Vice Prime Minister, Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we come before you to ask you to do a very small thing, and this is an extension of the emergency situation in the Czech Republic. When I was listening to my colleagues in front of me, I felt like they were actually doing something for us here as a government! That we want to prolong the emergency! But it's not! We want to prolong this emergency because it is essential to protect our citizens. That's a real fact, you're not doing it for us! You are doing this to cope with the huge crisis we are facing, the largest pandemic in the Czech Republic over the last 100 years. That's just a bare fact. And, of course, I myself was not a fan of extending the emergency situation. I'm sure you know that from what I've said. I did not think that there really was a need for an emergency to be declared necessary for the time and after the end, after the really greatest crisis phase, we would be following emergency measures of the Ministry of Health issued under the Public Health Act. This is how we treated it. [[12.30 hours]] Of course, the situation changed significantly by decision of the Municipal Court in Prague. This, of course, has completely changed the situation, and we have to come out of it. Of course, we respect the decision of the Municipal Court in Prague, although we are not entirely sure about this view and we will certainly file an appeal against the Supreme Administrative Court. Among other things, it is actually an unprecedented decision in the Czech Republic. We don't have any precedent here that we can come from, which also states the Municipal Court in Prague that there's no way through, that we'd look back and say, we're going to do so and so, we've got some boundaries in which we're moving. We were in the limits of the Public Health Act, which gives relatively broad competence to the Ministry of Health in order to ensure prevention, liquidation, risk of pandemics or epidemics in the Czech Republic, ban activities, order activities. This is all the law that contains. We now have a decision of the Municipal Court in Prague. And, of course, we respect him. And we know that the only way to continue the good trend that we are now observing in the epidemiological situation in the Czech Republic is to continue the emergency situation until that date 25. 5. And if I'm listening to the statement that we're going to extend until the 10th, the 7th, the 7th, the 14th days, of course, these are some opinions. It has no professional support. This is not supported by any analysis, any expert arguments. The situation is very clear. We, if we want to maintain control of the epidemiological situation in the Czech Republic, must do this gradually by releasing the measures in question. We don't want to prolong the emergency because we want to keep tightening the bolts. We want to allow them. But there must be some rules to this authorisation, it must be based on data, I agree with that, and the waves must somehow be divided. And they're separated after 14 days. In principle, the large dispersals have 14-day intervals, precisely because we know that COVID-19 disease has a 14-day incubation period. This is a widely accepted incubation period even within WHO. And we need to have the ability to evaluate if we take a step if we do some dispersal, what impact it will have on data on the epidemiological situation in the Czech Republic within the next 14 days. Because if the effects were negative, we're just gonna have to slow down, we're gonna have to stop, we're gonna have to disintegrate those waves into other smaller waves. And we also need to be able to identify what caused, for example, an increase in the number of positive patients. There's been a lot of discussion here about Easter. Now we know that Easter had no real impact, because today we have been more than two weeks since Easter, more than two weeks since the opening of the hobbycenter and so on, and we see that this has not been reflected in the epidemiological situation. That means we can check this out and we can say yes, this has not had the negative impact. But we have another opening. We've got business, we've got farmers' markets, we've got restaurants and so on. And every now and then, we need to know if there's any deterioration in the epidemiological situation that's caused us to be able to identify: it's caused the shops to open, it's caused the restaurants to open up, it's caused the gyms to open up, etc. And if we glue the release really into a very short section, really, if it were to happen that we would actually have to release these risky operations from one day to the next, we would not be able to make that identification. And then we're just gonna chase a rabbit in the field, and without any sense, we're not gonna be able to identify why this situation is getting worse. So that's why we really have to go one step at a time. That's why there's a plan that's already on the edge from an epidemiological point of view. bezesporu. We had some debate about it. We are trying to balance the economic, epidemiological interests from the point of view that, of course, we do not have the Czech Republic here for long in quotation marks, prisons, clinging to all these measures so that the economy really starts to function, so that the Czech Republic will start to function and, at the same time, we will have supervision of the epidemiological situation. So it's a kind of compromise, which, of course, is already on the verge of some degree. But I think it's done right into that 25. 5. But this is really the maximum time, or the minimum time that these measures have to be introduced, until when the measures actually have to be introduced, concerning establishments that concern restrictions on movement, are restaurants, swimming pools, aquacentres and so on, a whole series of risky establishments - which are risky why? Because there are more people there, there is contact between people. And that's actually some kind of justification. I understand, of course, that sometimes some steps are hard for the lay public to understand, why dog salons sooner than, for example, hairdressers. But there's a clear technical argument. Hairdressing is also an epidemiologically serious activity under the Public Health Protection Act, because there is really close contact, there is no possibility to set up a two-metre distance, etc. There are a number of professional reasons. But that's just one example. So there really is a reason for this plan. It is discussed by an epidemiology group, although there are some compromise solutions. But it is necessary that the plan be maintained in this way. This is simply an assumption that we should be able to keep the epidemiological situation in the Czech Republic on the favourable figures that we have now, and if there were any deviation, so that we could identify why it happened, and we could then deal with it. So for this reason, it really doesn't make sense to debate whether we prolong the emergency by a week or by ten days or by two weeks. The only meaningful solution is to extend the emergency situation to 25. 5. I think we've really done a great deal of work. When we look at the data, and it's being published, I don't really understand the fact that there's still a call for data release. I think we publish the maximum data on websites that are public: coronavirus.mzcr.cz. There is all the information for citizens about easing, there is a clear plan, there are hygienic-epidemiology rules for relaxing individual establishments. So these are the pages that have been discussed here, where the information is in one place, where one can find all the information. We have an information line that's been running for weeks, and other information sources. So I don't think that there really would be any information in this regard, including those data on the epidemiological situation, which is updated three times every day. Every day, three times a person can see how the number of infected develops, how the current active cases develop, i.e. those who are now infected, the total number of positive tested, the number of tests, the number of deaths, mortality, its structure in terms of age, gender. In short, I think there is quite a large number of data in terms of regions and so on. There's really nothing transparent here. Every week we hold a press conference with the Institute of Health Information and Statistics, where we present the models as well. These models are presented every week. That's an objective fact. And luckily, we're hitting those predictions. There are, of course, more pessimistic scenarios, even more optimistic. We're coming out of a reproductive number that's still decreasing. We're at 0.74 somewhere today. Maybe now we'll move on to a lower number. So it's not true that anything's been withheld here, that there's no data, that there's no communication between the epidemiological situation and any prospects, modeling for the future. So it's just not like that. And we're trying to put the utmost emphasis on it. And the objective fact is that epidemiological data is developing well. But let's see what's going on abroad. Let's look at other countries. Let's see what the World Health Organization said yesterday, saying by the mouth of its chairman, Dr. Tedros. She said that the Member States, or the states, are warning against the hasty loosening of measures. It warns against hasty loosening the measures! That was a statement from the head of the World Health Organization yesterday. And that's why we don't want to take precautions too quickly. We want it to have some direction. We want it to have some sort of order, so it has some sort of wave, as I was talking about it. And this isn't some theory. This isn't a theoretical debate we're talking about. Fortunately, we have been able to monitor the situation in other countries from the outset. And that's what we came out of. That is why the Czech Republic may still be successful, because we have seen the situation in Italy, we have seen the situation in Spain and other countries. And we responded on time. And now we see again the situation in other countries such as Japan, like Singapore, where they have made relatively rapid unwinding of those measures, where they have actually abolished the emergency situation, in order to declare it again, because the number of cases has started to grow. [[12.40 hours]] So please, I would really warn against any opinions that it is enough to extend the emergency by a week, by two weeks. If it were possible to follow the Public Health Act, as we did in good faith, and the Municipal Court in Prague also stated in its judgment that the Ministry of Health actually acted in good faith, we would not need to prolong the emergency situation. But if there is no other option, if we really have to move within the framework of crisis law, crisis measures by the government, and these are really the fundamental measures, we obviously have a number of them, such as drapes and the like, but those emergency measures that concern establishments that concern restrictions on movement, or gathering in various actions and so on, so they are simply crucial to handling this epidemiological situation and we must preserve and release them very, very gradually. So for this reason, I beg you to approve the government's request to extend the emergency situation to 25. 5. because it is the only meaningful solution for us to handle the situation that we are actually experiencing today maybe the sixth, seventh week, in the following month. I think that the Czech Republic can be a role model and is a role model for a number of countries, and I think that in this respect it is enough to look at foreign media as the Czech Republic is judged to be an exemplary state in terms of combating this pandemic. That's just an objective fact. So we can look for thousands of mistakes. And certainly, yes, there are a number of things that have gone wrong, maybe some communication noise and so on, but at the end of the day we count numbers, at the end of the day it counts if we have a full ICU, if we really have to decide who we're saving and who we're not, if we have enough instruments for pulmonary ventilation of patients and so on, these are basic objective numbers and the Czech Republic has handled the situation in this regard. Anyone can say anything, but the Czech Republic has simply mastered the situation. We are one of the most successful countries. I'm sure it's not just my credit, it's basically all of us's credit, it's all of our citizens' credit, in terms of their responsibilities, and they need to be thanked for it. And I know that, of course, these measures are unpleasant, people may no longer consider them so important today, but believe me, they are important that it is really very important that we last about four weeks, and if everything goes well, then I think we can say that we have managed to get through the current phase of the pandemic. What happens after what happens in the fall, no one knows that today. Today, of course, there are various expert debates taking place, epidemiologists consult things, have some predictions. There's a lot of opinions. We know the disease, and we have to realize that for about four months. This means that this is not a disease that we would be able to evaluate based on clinical trials and so on. After all, even the area testing, as you call it, is not an area testing, it is indeed a clinical study approved by ethical commissions, which actually approved this study on the basis of clear rules, a clear protocol, as well as the structure of those who are testing, in terms of gender structure and so on. So it really isn't some random field testing. And, of course, we will also be based on this, although it cannot be expected that the Czech Republic would be fundamentally different from other countries in terms of immunization. This is, of course, an objective fact and we will present the data in time. So please, let's just be patient, let's wait about four weeks, because it makes sense, and that's the only way we can handle the situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u21	Thank you, Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch. Now Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček will be ready. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow citizens, if you are following us, and I know that some have, because you are writing to me during this meeting, I was a member of the government among those who no longer wanted to raise their hand to the government for the continuation of the emergency situation, and I presented it in the media last week, I was just convinced that it was no longer necessary, that it was enough, that we had enough legal instruments to continue without emergency conditions, whether it was a law on public procurement or, if necessary, a health law. However, on Friday the decision of the Municipal Court has already been published here several times, and it has mixed the cards quite clearly. I'm not gonna judge him at all, it's not our place, the only courts can interpret law in this country, and we'll always respect that. And the court said clearly: if you have a declared emergency, if I simplify the interpretation, you should have followed the emergency law, not the health law. Nothing more, nothing less. It did not question the scope of these measures, it did not question their legitimacy, it did not dispute that the measures, and did not even engage in this interpretation, would not be appropriate. He simply said: you should have chosen another legal means, another legal instrument. Of course, he put us in a situation, and I say this completely without emotion, without any criticism, that, I repeat, does not belong to us to the courts that we had to decide as a government, because the decision became effective, I mean the court, on Monday this week, and if we didn't respond in any appropriate way, then the emergency situation would end on the 30th, and we would be in a rather inconspicuous situation and certainly much more obscure than how we reacted, that means that we asked for an extension of the emergency situation. I am also saying this in the light of the fact that the Minister of Health has declared that an appeal will be lodged against this decision, which is a legitimate exceptional appeal, and the subsequent final decision on the matter will belong to the Supreme Administrative Court. And I think that it is perfectly okay, because the questions of the type to which we have the health law, if it can only be applied to, for example, certain minor interventions and so on, are legitimate questions, and it will be good if the Supreme Administrative Court answers them. But again, I have to say, it's one court's decision. Today you may have noticed, I have read it quickly here this morning, that the Constitutional Court decided and decided on several matters, now I quickly look for it, about ten complaints that were filed there for various reasons in similar matters, and basically how quickly I read what was available in the media, rejected them. He refused for various reasons, but he just refused. The first of the initiatives he addressed was against the March declaration of emergency and against restrictions on free movement in the Czech Republic first by the government and then by the Ministry of Health. And the Constitutional Court said, "The announcement of an emergency by the government is an act of government," I quote. "It is reviewed primarily by the democratically elected body, which is the Chamber of Deputies," the statement states. In addition, some complaints were rejected on the ground that the complainant was not a person who could be a party to the constitutional complaint. Another was rejected because it was against a government resolution that had already been repealed. Of course, there is also some criticism here, the Constitutional Court says: You should not only interpret it at press conferences and press releases, you should have drummed it on every corner. Okay, we take note of this, and let us learn from this criticism of the Constitutional Court, but the point is that the Constitutional Court has decided in a different way. [[12.50 hours]] I don't want to put these two decisions against each other right now. I don't want to. That's not the point of what I'm saying. I just want to say that we have different choices here in similar matters. So let's not blame the government, let's not really be the one who feels like he has the right to the biggest courts. Let's not blame her for whether she acted one way or the other. No one has questioned the legitimacy of the measures that have been taken to protect the health of the people of our country. And that was the most important thing. And I'm not going to repeat the arguments that my government colleague Adam Vojtěch, the Minister of Health, said here because I think they were clear and that they were clearly explained. What's the most important thing? It's just that I'm struggling with pandemics - and I'm saying this with all humility and knowing that no one properly, not even the greatest experts, knows how the virus will behave. But we really stand by how we handled him. And the numbers are clear. It is also clear that we are also seen this way in an international aspect and that now, I hope, the conditions have been created, and that is why the government has decided on gradual easing. And I will not take any arguments from my next government colleague Karel Havlíček, who will certainly talk about the release plan and the fact that we are one of the three countries of Europe that has such a plan. You may have read an article that the British Finance Minister is studying it, and basically there are countries that are inspired by us, for example. Slovakia. So we're not saying this again because we want to brag here, that's not important at all. The important thing is that we have done the most important thing, and this is the fight against pandemics, and gradually hand in hand with the Ministry of Health, epidemiologists and other experts aware of so many unknowns we encounter on that journey, we have set out a certain release plan that should help eliminate the frustration of our citizens, our entrepreneurs, our employees, who, of course, are logically concerned about their future. In any case, as a government, we greatly appreciate - and it has been said here and I think it is appropriate that I repeat this here too - the responsibilities of our people and how they approach all these measures and how they perceive their importance. I, on the other hand, would like to assure them, as Vice Prime Minister for the economy and Secretary of Finance, that we are aware that we are in a difficult situation that has no parallel in our country's long-term history. And we consider it our absolute duty, all members of the government, to work with total commitment. We don't give a damn about this place. It is natural and clear for us that we will not look at whether we are working from morning to night, Saturdays, Sundays, it is simply our duty to work and prepare all measures whether in the field of health, whether in the area of epidemiological, health protection, so of course economic and social, so that we can mitigate the devastating economic effects, which, of course, are secondary to this whole pandemic. I know that here I will repeat the things that you know, but it may say them here in a nutshell is not entirely wrong, to remind you that we have accepted them in a very short time - and I repeat, we take it for granted, as a matter of course, for this country, for entrepreneurs, for employees, for companies. We have put in place a number of measures to protect employment, whether it is the Antivirus programme, which is very important and which processes the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, to compensate wage costs, to save people's jobs. You know we started very quickly. The first thing was so-called. Liberating packages, defer tax obligations, pardon penalties arising from these matters, interest-free deferral of the payment of a whole series of taxes, VAT so much discussed. I keep a record of authorisation for the Financial Administration to defer VAT so that it really targets the vulnerable and the most affected. Just so you know, 22. 4. Allowed the Financial Administration ten times as many deferrals, waiting for VAT, and I have completely forgiven all the fees associated with this, we have a waiver of sanctions, which means that when interest is generated there, it is possible to apply for up to 100% remission as a result of coronavirus. That's the right thing to do - target help where it's most needed. We've relieved the real estate tax. You know, I've got a motion to cancel it, and we're going to discuss it in coalition, as we agreed this week. We've put aside the backup to all those who pay the road tax. I have acquiesced on the government's mandate an advance on income tax. We have prepared a six-month holiday to pay health and social insurance, and we have prepared, of course, mainly - and I am glad that I received such great support from this Chamber of Deputies, support from the 25th, and I am glad that last week we approved the continuation of this support for the CFI until 8 June. And if it is simply necessary, it will be through the Government's regulation, if the Senate approves this week and the President signs it, we will extend until 31 August. Tomorrow the government will approve support for small s. r. o. from the workshop of the Ministry for Regional Development, but we also worked together on this, of course, other government colleagues - finance, MIT etc. - and we're counting on the support that would eventually involve three members of the s. r. o. We have taken into account the comments of the unions, chambers that say - there are spouses, the executive does not reach Antivirus etc., or even there it will be set up in the same way as for the twenty-five 500 kroner per day, tomorrow the government will approve it, it will be a special program processed by the Ministry for Local Development. I'm preparing another application, the possibility of a reverse loss. You know that we have discussed a completely unique system of state guarantees here, and I am going to defend this law tomorrow - and thank you for the support of this Chamber of Deputies, which was quite broad - I am going to defend it in the Senate tomorrow. This will make it possible for operating loans, especially those small and medium-sized companies, where the state will guarantee up to 90 per cent, for operating loans up to 50 million, to 250 employees, for the larger ones from 250 to 500 it is up to 80 per cent. You know that this will put banks up to 500 billion in these loans. So these are all very important things. The package of these economic measures, the COVID plus guarantee for exporters, for those larger companies over 500 employees in particular, although of course we have overlaps with those from 250 to 500 employees. A moratorium on repayment of loans that we're already running. People write to me, they've had their first experience with it, which means they can enter a moratorium, mortgage, business loans, consumer credit, where we've even put a stop to those six months of consumer money - they can enter a moratorium, delay their repayment so it doesn't crush them. Amendment to the Consumer Credit Act. Again, it has even passed so unanimously by the Members present at the time, also thank you for this, because it will help to protect people after the end of the moratorium. Those who have consumer loans, we have newly placed them under this law. We've put a ceiling on all those packages of fines that are related to the repayment. So these are all important things so we don't get people into debt traps. We also responded, of course, to the Rent Act. The Ministry of Finance prepared it, and approved it by the government, a price moratorium on rent from flats, and thus we come to the tenants who, in a difficult situation, are having difficulty managing rent payments so that this rent is not increased to them. All of these instruments together, whether it be direct support, let it be tax relief, let it be the guarantee system, because we have to calculate that it is also money that banks put into the economy, so thanks to all of this, they will head to our economy of 1.2 trillion crowns and make it an incredible 21.5 percent of GDP, but it ranks us among the countries that actually put the most into the economy. Maybe Germany is ahead of us by the numbers I have, but we keep finding them out, because, of course, you have to find out the numbers from other countries quite difficultly. We have prepared and submitted as a government to this Chamber of Deputies - and thank you again because the support was quite broad - already the second amendment to the State Budget Act. Thanks to this, we have raised, and we are counting on a certain increase in the deficit to 300 billion, which puts almost 79 billion in the government's budget reserve. The government decides on every expenditure I'm talking about in the choir, and it's covered by this budget reserve. [[13.00 hours]] It is also very important for the Ministry of Finance that last week it was able to overrule the amendment to the Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility. Thanks to this, we will be able to maintain the level of our citizens, our economies, our investments in the next year. You know that we have planned a consolidation plan for seven years, and I also consider it a very important instrument to help us get back out of the economic crisis. What is also important, I would also like, perhaps for you, information that we are also doing well in the financial markets in bond shops. Since the beginning of the year, we have already acquired CZK 386.2 billion by selling bonds with an average maturity of six years, with about 90 percent of sales, which means 344 billion, taking place in the period following the announcement of the emergency situation and the average yield, and this is important, interest, average interest, because it is important, you will always sell it, but the important thing is that once those who come after us do not sin on us. The average interest is 1.19%. It's even lower than the one we agreed for before the pandemic broke out. These are all important things and helped this amendment to the Czech National Bank Act, very much, just because I presented that the Czech National Bank, and also thank you for its support, will be able to enter the secondary financial market and actually buy government bonds not from the state, it cannot, but simply from insurance companies, banks and other entities, which will, of course, help to put further liquidity on the market. So this is also a very important step. And all of them just added up, underlined, and when we come out of the macroeconomic situation in which the Czech Republic was in, to its low debt, which we had with public finances, about 30 percent of the state budget, that was 29 percent, I believe and believe that the one-off stimulus of the Czech public finances or the short-term stimulus of the economy will bear. We, of course, as a government, realize that they will be very important - this rescue package, it is an absolute obligation to just do this and we believe that this is the only way, but then it is important to support the economy, to support - now we have issued state guarantees on operating loans, but we will need investment and we will have to hold the very public sector, investment as is important in crisis years, but we have to think and I think that this has also been said here by one of the previous speakers, we need to focus on investment of the 21st century, we need to focus on digitalisation, on modern technologies. Now the pandemic showed that we actually started communicating for a day in an online system, schools, government, other institutions. And that's our future, and that's where we need to focus. Of course, 20th-century investment in infrastructure, in the conquest of the backbone network, is very important, but we need to keep looking forward and just think about the new investment system, about digitalisation. I believe that I will receive support for the law, the amendment to the tax code, which we have prepared in cooperation with the opposition since last week, when the original fell under the table, and I believe that it will move us as well as other projects, and that in education, I think this should move us somewhere, and that may be the positive impact, and now please don't hold me by the word that we should take from the pandemic, from this simply unprecedented situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u23	Madam Vice-President, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment and ask you how you expect the length of your speech. [[One sentence and I'm done, Mr. Vice-President. Just one.]] Then I'll let you finish. Of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u24	Thank you very much. I would like to say one last sentence and thank you for your attention. This situation is new to all of us. Believe that we are doing our utmost to protect the health of our citizens, to mitigate as much as possible the wounds of our economy, and above all, we are doing everything we can to give all people hope, because it is very important, the hope, and the belief that these difficult times will soon be over. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u25	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová for her speech and I interrupt until 1405 hours of meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, so according to the agreement of the MPs, there is an hour for lunch in this state. We will continue at 14.05 hours with the speech of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u26	The honourable Member, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, is 14.05 hours. We will continue today's meeting with those who are logged in with priority rights. Before the lunch break, Deputy Prime Minister Karel Havlíček was the first to speak, followed by Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to enter into a debate and follow up on my previous speakers, possibly to respond in part to some questions or suggestions. Everything is connected - of course I mean emergency - with the so-called dispersal regime of the economy. We are sometimes blamed that we do not have a very clear plan that we cannot communicate with him. We have a clear plan, a simple plan that there is no further discussion. We introduced the plan last week, but we actually showed at least the outlines of the plan that week before, purely because it was not quite clear how the spread of the epidemic would develop. In the first five-stage plan, we said that these were the outlines of where we wanted to go, and we made it clear that we could speed up or slow down with regard to how things were going to develop. The good news is that the situation was going well and that after Easter we could exactly 12th, 13th day after we evaluated everything, come up with a final solution, four-step solution, which is what we're really saying is that we've reduced not only the stages, but especially the time horizon. The plan, I think everyone knows, is on all the servers, it's in all the media, I think there's no one to look at it, and the plan has clear groups of entrepreneurs, or groups of so-called other activities, whether sports, leisure and so on, it has clear deadlines. And what's important is that the plan has its own implementing rules, detailed. They're on the Ministry of Health server, they're in big detail, they're being processed by a team of people. And they are constantly overworked because, of course, as individual business activities or other activities are opened or put into operation, there are a number of questions as to how we will deal with this at the hygienic level. The plan that was mentioned here today by some of my previous speakers, and we were criticized for it in the sense that we did not say it in advance - we published it on the first possible day. Yes, I didn't publish it at the midnight session of the Chamber of Deputies, which was Wednesday, because I made it clear that we had multiple scenarios and that we were waiting for the morning results. Immediately after they were, we sat down with epidemiologists and other experts and, of course, subsequently with the members of the government and chose the solution that fits the situation. It is always a compromise solution to some extent. It is true that at this point we have compared a step, for example, with Germany, with Austria, and we are among the three countries in Europe that could publish their plan and which can also be implemented through the good results that we have. There was also mention of how we are subsequently accelerating or accelerating the plan. We've mentioned the exits many times. There isn't a day I haven't said it in the media, but I'm going to repeat it. These are, of course, the arguments of epidemiologists who are at the level of the so-called reproductive factor or the number of newly infected or the number of seriously ill patients in the intensive care unit. At the same time, however, we are also taking the factor of minimizing the breach of the competitive environment. I know that someone can laugh about it, that the competitive environment has been greatly violated by what has happened. It is true, yet we try to consider, at every other decision, that there should simply be no fatal collision between groups - smaller entrepreneurs, larger entrepreneurs, the same production - there should be no fatal collision. It doesn't always work, but it's still a significant factor. Among other things, we looked in other countries. It's interesting here to see how the other two countries that release with us do it. They're all a little different. Austria is running a similar scenario as we are. This means they set a clear timetable and they try to follow, even if they play there every week, every 14 days, certain, let's say, other measures and minor deviations there are also quite regular. It's just because the situation is evolving in some way and no one's ever seen this before. This means that they also regulate it, but not fundamentally, just like we don't regulate it fundamentally anymore. Germany goes after the weekly regime, and every week they introduce the next step in the next week, they go a little differently. Slovakia has largely overturned our timetable and is based on it in their other activities and activities. Interesting is Great Britain, which was inspired by the Czech way. The British government is studying our timetable very closely now, and we are glad that we can be a partial inspiration for this country. In any case, once again, we have a plan, it's clearly communicated, and I can't imagine anyone not being entirely obvious. Which I'm not saying that all that's in there, and all the implementing regulations we've done quite brilliantly, quite right, and we're not afraid to say, if we make a mistake somewhere, we're gonna fix it. We simply have to take hundreds and thousands of different measures that are not visible at first sight, and of course we are sometimes wrong about them. All of this is supported by a certain basis for ongoing economic measures. We have the economic measures we are making divided into two areas - short-term and long-term. Yes, someone blames us: you only do operational things, think about the future. Someone else says: prepare too long-term measures, think about the need for immediate cash now. Both sides are partly right. [[14.10 hours]] However, we are taking these measures at both levels. The short-term - most of us know, within one and a half months, I dare say that we have covered virtually all segments in the business that have a chance to get support, whether they are self-employed - known 25, social and health forgiveness for these people, wage compensation programme Antivirus, deferrals, deferrals from bank instalments that we have discussed here, rent, of course, deferrals of a whole series of payments within the Financial Administration. We're finishing the Eseroga. Thursday will be accepted. We mean the little eseroga, one or two executives who don't employ each other. In DPP, in DPČ - it is also finished. And sometimes there is a little less talk about it, but it also fell here today, there is still a number of support subsidy programmes, which serve mainly to support domestic producers in the field of health technology. We've only created three programs lately. They're going pretty well. There are hundreds of millions of crowns. Tens to hundreds of companies ask for them and get them quite quickly - I say quite quickly, so they get the resources in order within three weeks after they evaluate all applications and pass through the necessary sieve. It doesn't mean everyone gets it. But they get to invest, they get to complete development, everything in conjunction with medical equipment or medical aids. And even to put those products on the market. Even we prepare and mediate contacts for individual resorts so that they can sell their products. Only in the Ministry of Industry and Trade are we working with thousands... of hundreds of entrepreneurs, of which several tens have actually received this support today, and they are support in the order of units of up to tens of millions of crowns. The others are just offering their products, so we're trying to get them to apply them on the market. These long-term measures are being prepared especially with the economic group NERV, which meets almost daily. Only yesterday we sat for almost five hours. There's people independent, there's business people, banking, academics, science, social affairs. They are dealt with regularly by a part of the government, especially by those dealing with the economy, the economy, the social area, employment, etc. We are preparing together a guarantee scheme, which we have discussed several times here and were approved at the record level. Other key activities are in the area of increasing investment. We have always said that if there is a problem, it will be bad, this government has a chance to invest, this government is due to debt - or this government, the Czech Republic is due to debt among prime ministers, and we said that if there is a problem, the state will start investing to an increased degree, which we are doing. I could say numbers here right now. Only into transport infrastructure - I do not want to delay it, we have repeated it several times, but the fact is that we are not slowing down public investment, on the contrary, we are strengthening it. And we are strengthening them so much that they will still be this year. And we will not move away from what we have been promoting here for several years, perhaps as few governments in the past, and that is spending on science, research and innovation. But not just spending, but concrete actions, concrete activities, when we completely changed the evaluation system, the system of funding science and research, when we completely changed the parameters of the relationship between science and the business sector. And I think, either through numbers, through results, or through specific products, we have solid results. Among other things, this was also reflected in the time of Coronavirus, when Czech science held the battalion high, high above its head, and, among other things, thanks to the great work of scientists and the link to the business sector, the business sector. I'm sure you've been watching, it's been tens and hundreds of interesting projects. Let me give you an example: for example, masks developed at CVUT in CIIRC, which are already mass produced today and which are, say, a certain calling card and good cooperation between the university sphere and the business sphere. Yes, it's true that even though we covered all the segments, we made mistakes. No one ever questioned that. If we're doing hundreds and thousands of measures, as I've already said, there's no way to make a mistake. We apologize to all those we may not have delivered in time. On the other hand, we delivered and prepared programs within one and a half months in the order of almost one trillion crowns. The Minister of Finance has even counted over one trillion crowns. That depends on how we're going to add up the guarantee schemes, if it's 500 billion, 600 billion, etc. But now it doesn't matter if it's one trillion or one whole and a piece of a trillion. The important thing is that the framework is created and the limits are for these resources to be allocated, respectively. so that the economic sector is able to draw on them. Ten years ago, when there was a global economic crisis - and I don't blame anyone, it was also the first time - so in that time almost a year and a half, 80 billion crowns were provided in the economy for its support. Within a month and a half, we've lost more resources than ten years ago. Yes, you can say that ten years ago, the economy was not isolated as it is today. It's true. At that time, the quotation marks were only 30, 40 percent. However, it was driven for two years. There was a huge number of companies that passed out back then. The businessmen got virtually nothing. So, of course, we also have to admit the mistakes we make. I monitor it a lot with my German colleagues. And when we look at it and compare their activities, their support for the economy, their measures, it's not entirely different from ours. Even there, they blame each other for whether the release schedule is okay, it's not. Whether or not he favors this group or that group. Even in Germany, at one point, all the support for the tradesmen had to stop because they were driving too fast. They simply followed the motto "cash is king." However, the result was that there were a huge number of false requests. And all I'm saying is that when someone blames us that our administration is slow, and I agree with that, in many ways it's really slow, it's not just because someone wants to hold something back and that officials can't work, and it's also because we have to check where we allocate tens of billions to, who we give them to, and whether there's any duplication or error, or even some fraud. The Germans really had to stop it. Even the Němec solve the fact that they create guarantee schemes and banks finance slowly or even reject clients. It's handled by the Minister of Industry just as much as we do. And there is a trial in Germany. If you registered it, yesterday the Bavarian court decided that closing large stores was unconstitutional. This is not an unusual thing, it happens in virtually every country. And you have to admit objectively, there will be more of these battles. [[14.20 hours]] These battles will be on several fields, with a battle in the field of health, I daresay, which ends well with us. For God's sake, it's good, it's good, thanks to everyone who's been involved, whether it's those who stand on the front line or who stand on the front line, whether it's those who had to shut down all their businesses, small companies, big companies, businessmen, whether it's the officials who help, whether it's the government, opposition. I believe that if we add it all up, the result of the Czech Republic and all those who are active in public or private life is exemplary and should not lose it. I remember when we started this first battle here, when we presented the first measure here at the House of Deputies, we were subjected sometimes to overwhelming criticism that we exaggerated, that we were too fast, that we were too rash, that we stopped flights, that we were limiting the movement of persons. I'm not blaming anyone because I understand that by never having experienced it, so maybe at that moment the opposition rhetoric over the real danger just didn't know what we were getting into. And the good thing is that we finally took these measures because it was because we did them quickly, because we did them consistently, so the result was that today, as has already been mentioned several times, we lead. Maybe not by a lot of points, but we're still leading the coronavirus. The second battle begins, and it's an economic battle. While we see health results at the battle, we have them, and we will believe that we will continue to play them, and that we will reach the winning end, so we are at the very beginning of the economics. Yes. And just as you criticized us a month and a half ago, what we're doing wrong, we've patiently heard that we're showing results, so today we respect the criticism that we failed in that economic area, which could be faster, what we've forgotten. We'll take it. But in any case the results are not determined with all respect in the House, the results are not determined in the media. The results are determined in time and determined by clear measurable indicators, whether in the business sector or generally in the economic sector. It will be possible to measure and I think that at the end of the year we will be able to be wiser in terms of what everything has been done wrong, well, the number of companies that have ended up, or, on the contrary, how we managed to maintain performance in one or another sector, or how companies contribute to the state budget, and so on. It's just that they're very soon to evaluate this, and the economic battle is going to be a long one. Well, the third battle is clear, it will be in the future. It's a legal battle. As in all countries, it will be fought at that legal level. There will be a number of speculators, there will be a number of less or more legitimate claims, complaints, and it will undoubtedly take several years. For us, this battle is number one, and we are now focusing on battle number two. We understand that the legal environment must be fair and that the form must be respected. It's true. On the other hand, we held our form according to our best consciousness and conscience. We decided in the order of hours, in the order of one hour, not tens of hours. And the form we chose eventually celebrated its success in that first battle. At this point, we are focusing on all economic measures, and there will undoubtedly be a fight in the legal field. Nevertheless, I would like to ask everyone and politely ask them to take account of the fact that the term 25. 5. which we have set is not a term that we would make up. It is a term that is after the discussion with epidemiologists, with all those thanks to which we have very good results today, and we will all be happy when the time is over. However, the 25th from this point of view is absolutely necessary date. I cannot personally imagine that we should reduce these timetables that we have introduced so that they would end up like 30, 5 or 10. We could screw up a great deal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u28	Thank you. She will now perform with priority rights, Minister Jana Maláčová. The Minister is the last person to sign up with priority rights at the moment, and then we will continue with the debate by speaking in writing to the Members who have signed up. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to contribute with an argument as to why I believe that the current emergency situation should be extended. I realise very well that we can only use the emergency situation in defined reasons and in exceptional situations, that in a democratic society the government has clearly defined powers and must respect civil and human rights. However, we must not forget the primary reason for declaring an emergency, and this is the protection of human lives and the protection of public health. As Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I have the task of protecting the most vulnerable group, these are seniors, disabled people and severely ill people. It is also my job to protect all citizens from falling into an existential emergency. Third, I have the task of supporting and protecting employment so that people can work, taking care of themselves and their loved ones. The emergency situation allows the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to take a number of steps that speed up and simplify the protection of these groups, and I will get to that right away. The first and most important thing is social services. As Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I have limited powers in relation to the distribution of protective equipment, the availability of testing and so on. At the same time, however, I am responsible for ensuring that all clients of social services are adequately protected. In the event of failure of this protection, it will be the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, especially I who will be blamed for quick easing. And, you know, it's been said a lot today that there's a constant risk of the so-called second wave of pandemic. We can see for ourselves that the existing measures have a positive impact on health and life protection, they also affect the availability and staffing of social services. The beginnings were difficult, but within a few days and weeks we managed to stabilize the situation during March and ensure a functioning network of protective equipment distribution across the regions. During the duration of the emergency period, the work obligation of students in the social fields is also imposed. As a result, hundreds of students in social services are helping to cover the failure of staff, which is caused by illness or, for example, by the care of a family member. It is also possible to use staff from previously closed social services to protect the most vulnerable, for seniors or for disabled people, whether in homes for seniors or, for example, in care services. Everyone is grateful for this, and I firmly hope that in the coming days we will approve an extraordinary grant title for social services, where we will thank these people financially in addition to the thanks and tribute they receive, and we will appreciate their commitment and work financially. By declaring an emergency situation, we could also close selected social services for client protection: staff members, daily services centres, low-floor facilities for children and youth, social activation services for families with children, social activation services for seniors and disabled people, as well as social therapy workshops. And I realize very well that these people need a return to normal life, that they need not only them but also their families care and support that they had just through social services. Last week, the government approved a plan to disperse social services, and I face daily questions about why we do not disengage social services much faster. And I say that I know the situation of these families and carers very well, and I understand their situation very well. We are all eager to return to normal life, but at this point we have decided to listen very honestly to the recommendations of epidemiologists. We want to be more careful, more conservative in returning to normal life, because we are protecting the most vulnerable from the so-called second wave. Every week, we will evaluate the plan and modify it on the basis of data, if necessary. But still, I repeat, the key is to protect health from all other reasons, even though I personally understand them humanly. [[14.30 hours]] The emergency situation also means a significant reduction in the compulsory administration for social services. Practically, it can be imagined that, for example, field care services can deliver food, purchases, medicines, simply provide basic living needs for needy seniors without concluding proper contracts. By another government resolution, we could order the regions to provide other suitable social services in cases of immediate threat to the life and health of users. Last but not least, the extension of the emergency situation allows us to supply priority social services with protective equipment. I already talked about that. Last week, the government even took note that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs provided the regions with a list of several hundred thousand people with disabilities, so that the regions could supply, despite the protection of personal data, the disabled with the right protective aids. And I think it's very important. In normal mode, it is not possible to centrally purchase and distribute personal protective equipment and providers would have to buy these things themselves. The regions, however, the municipalities did not have a budget prepared for this situation. At the same time, the state would lose direct responsibility for the smooth and controlled supply of protective equipment, and we cannot afford that. I don't think I'm alone with that opinion. We all know that the availability of protective equipment is the most essential. After all, we felt it at the end of March, the Czech Republic was not the only one, on the contrary, everywhere in Europe their governments faced the same situation. The Ministry of Health may declare emergency measures as an administrative authority under the Public Health Act, but there is a need to assess the issue of proportionality. Therefore, the continuation of these crisis measures cannot be ensured without the duration of the emergency situation. And I remind you once again that social services take care of the most risky group of people and, after the crisis measures have ended, the state will actually lose control of the enforcement of these protective measures. The second important area is the provision of benefits. Thanks to the resolution on ensuring the continuity of the provision of non-insurable social benefits, there has been a significant simplification of the agenda. The current setting gives clients legal certainty, minimises the necessary contact with the employment office and other entities, such as the Czech Post or with employers, and ensures smooth payment of these social benefits. We're talking about emergency assistance, sick leave, or unemployment benefits. The most important simplifications that we have made during the emergency period are particularly remote, i.e. electronic submission of applications without the need for a signature or a certified signature. It has also simplified and accelerated the decision-making of the authorities. Since the consequences of the crisis are yet to affect citizens and the number of applicants will increase, it is precisely these simplifications that are necessary. The closure of crisis measures will result in a greater administrative burden on employees of both the employment offices and the clients themselves, which can once again have a major impact on the smoothness and rate of payment of these benefits. And I think we all agree that the sooner the money arrives to the most vulnerable, the better for them, because at this point, every crown really counts. The third area, which is important to the MPSV due to the emergency situation, is the employment area. During the emergency period, employers applying for contributions under the Antivirus programme do not have to provide evidence of debt-freedom from health insurance companies, financial offices, customs offices and district social security administrations. If the emergency situation had not been prolonged, the Antivirus programme would have become more administratively demanding again and would have delayed payment of contributions due to the request for a debt-free certificate. Also, several thousand companies would probably not reach Antivirus contributions. And the last area that is important to the MPSV due to the announcement of an emergency is the care of the children of the employees of the state's key infrastructure. You know that special crisis kindergartens have been set up for employees of police, hospital security forces and also members of armed forces or school workers or educational establishments, but also for employees of municipalities and regions involved in social work and social services providers. There, employees of the employment offices, the Czech Social Security Administration, can also entrust their children so that they can go to work and provide the work that they are in charge of in order to ensure the smooth running of the state. This means, in turn, from the point of view of the MPSV, to pay benefits, sick leave, the Antivirus programme, extraordinary immediate assistance. If the emergency had ended, these crisis kindergartens would also have ended and a large part of the employees of the Ministry of MPSV would probably have to ask again for medical care and stay home with their children. You're probably wondering what we've managed to do at the MPSV in the last few weeks to stabilize the situation. I think the biggest response was the extension of the infirmary for children under the age of 13 while the schools were closed. We'll increase the infirmary to 80 percent of previous intake. The Senate will discuss this tomorrow, and I firmly hope that this proposal will be approved. We also introduced infirmary for so-called brokers and tradesmen. One of the first steps that we have presented and which this Parliament, for which I thank, approved, was the remission of social security advances also for businessmen. It was a proposal that was drafted, approved by the Government within a week of the announcement of the emergency situation and very simply passed through both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic. But most of the work costs us is the Antivirus program, where we contribute to companies to pay compensation so that they do not have to discharge. At this point, almost 200,000 jobs in March have been supported under the Antivirus programme. A month from April, we expect a much bigger surge. That means, at this point, we've contributed 200,000 employees to their wages, and they probably haven't lost their jobs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Madam Secretary, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. And last thing, we've simplified the emergency emergency aid. The MPSV's briefing for labour authorities is possible at this time in an accelerated regime and under much more administratively favourable conditions to ask for this extra immediate assistance when we can contribute to housing costs and other costs of up to twice the living minimum of people living in one household. We are also preparing social security deferrals. On Monday, this proposal should be approved by the government. On Thursday we will discuss the introduction of letter C of the Antivirus programme. That's the classic cursarbeit support. You know, "A" and "B" of the Antivirus program respond to the fact that companies can't function. We need that letter "C." This means that we can motivate and support those companies that work and try to continue the difficult conditions. [[14.40 hours]] Of course, important, and I have already mentioned it, it is also a financial reward for all employees in social services for how the most vulnerable were protected, supported and incredibly demonstrated courage and personal commitment. Ladies and gentlemen, the Czech Republic is now entering the most complex phase, which is the gradual easing of the measures. It's a time when a lot of us feel that everything has to be the same as before, and at the same time it's the area or the stage where the most risks arise. There are states that underestimated precisely this stage and immediately faced the second wave of pandemics. I sure hope this doesn't happen to us. At the same time, it is also an important time for all economic measures, so that we can adjust the time of the reversal and we can all companies, businessmen, employees etc. to return to their normal lives, and ideally, they could continue where we left off in mid-March. If the emergency is not prolonged, the entire control of the epidemic or pandemic will not be as effective as it has been. And I think there's a lot, a lot of the risks I've listed. Therefore, I believe that the emergency situation should be prolonged. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u32	Thank you to the Minister and the President of the KSČM Parliamentary Club Pavel Kováčik will take the floor with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have previously announced as a KSČM MP, after we have just heard the floor of all the relevant government officials, Prime Minister and Minister, now allow me to ask for a break in the KSČM Club's meeting, when we do not really want to decide on our position to extend the ad hoc emergency situation from the side, but we want to consider all these arguments carefully and decide on the basis of rational considerations. Therefore, allow me to ask for a break at the KSČM club meeting for half an hour and please ask the KSČM club to go to the club's premises immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u34	Yes, I will grant this request. This means that I am interrupting the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until 15.12.00 at the meeting of the KSČM.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, it is 15.12.00 p.m., the time spent at the meeting of the KSČM Parliamentary Club has ended and we will continue our negotiations. It is up to the Members who have written in writing for the debate. Mrs Jana Černochová will be the first to speak, Mr Jan Birke will be prepared. At the same time, I ask all of us to create room for the continuation of the House of Deputies' negotiations. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u36	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that it is the opposition's duty to ask what reasons our government has for asking for an extension of the emergency situation, and it is the Government's duty to give Members such reasons and arguments. As the Municipal Court in Prague pointed out last week - let me quote: "It is true that the emergency situation differs from the chaos precisely by the fact that it continues to be operated by state institutions which implement measures aimed at restoring normal state and which move within the legal framework. While the law retreats into the background and individual measures of executive authorities take on relevance, it cannot be argued that the laws will cease to apply for good. On the contrary, it is necessary to cling to their strict adherence, as they provide constitutional guarantees and clear boundaries in which executive powers may move and where they may no longer go." End of quote. We're still in a difficult situation. Unfortunately, the government's constant chaos at the publication, the loosening of measures against the spread of coronavirus, unfortunately, is making this situation worse. Moreover, this is framed by an illegal procedure for the issue of measures The Department of Health, which we pointed out from the outset. Cleverties and manipulative statements such as: the statement by the Minister of Health that the borders were not closed in relation to coronavirus, but that man could only not travel abroad. Absurd! Once again, you can play it from the tape screen: There were no closed borders in relation to the coronavirus, but one just couldn't get to go abroad. So that, please, ladies and gentlemen, I don't misunderstand, I don't blame the government for taking action, but for the chaos that has caused here and how they are trying to rhetorically dial and tell us that black is not black. I will sum up just a few moments of the current situation, which I find quite absurd and for which the government would deserve more distrust than an extension of the emergency situation. The government will come in order to slap each other on the shoulders all the time and say how amazing she is and how she's handling and managing everything. Yet to this day, many volunteers are helping to sew drapes, produce shields and other protective equipment for health professionals and hand them out. I experienced this as the mayor of the Prague 2 district, on whose territory there was a field testing last week. Guess who rigged the shields and all the staff that helped organize this event? Not the Ministry of Health, but the city part of Prague 2! Citizens do a great job, partly in need replaced the government. You know, they're gonna make those stretches and restrictions in the finals. But to protect the most vulnerable, to follow the law, to stop inventing the wheel and to act according to crisis plans, to prepare balanced restrictions, but also to help the affected pandemics, that takes a lot of skill and, above all, honest hard work. But to do the work sophisticatedly, considering the least possible negative effects, it is unfortunately foreign to this government and acts more like an elephant in porcelain, when it just pulls out sometimes as if random duties, bans and orders from an imaginary hat full of restrictions and in the same way cancels them. I learned tonight they're stopping paying for blue zones! Friends, how did you park today? Fortunately, the mayor issued a statement in the early morning that Prague did not agree with this and that the zones will be closed until 11 May. But do you understand that at night we'll know that something will be canceled? I'm almost afraid to sleep, virtually. Wake up what we wake up to and what we pay, or what we don't pay! These aren't decisions made from a minute to a minute! These are decisions that require a clear concept. That doesn't come from a minute to a minute! It's just someone has to think about these things with all the consequences! If I add all this up and look at the consequences of the chaotic government measures, including the senseless legal turnover that the Prague City Court has lost, then there is no shoulder-to-shoulder slapping for how we handled the crisis. Yes, the economic effects of measures against the pandemic of coronavirus will be extensive. And the government will be looking for savings. But we mustn't ignore any other facts. [[15.20 hours]] The current crisis can lead to an increase in instability in the world, and I therefore find it completely inappropriate that the only area where cuts are spoken so far is defence and security. We have heard nothing from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance but how many hundreds of billions we will borrow and that we will re-evaluate or delay the purchase of BVP or other defence investments. Thus, there is not yet an effort to make a more thoughtful approach, where savings are sought, and where unnecessary money is drained in the state budget, which could be captured. I repeatedly appeal to the government not to repeat past mistakes and to learn from the mistakes our government, Mirek Topolánek's government, or Petr Nečas' government, has made in the past about defence and security. Don't make the same mistake! If it comes to cuts in defense, the government obviously has plans, at least according to the Minister of Finance's statements, there is no mention of savings at all in other departments. Personally, I think it's an impossible task for the DOD to find reserves. They don't have any reserves. We have a defense committee tomorrow. I will hope to find support across the political spectrum for a resolution in which we will call on the Government of the Czech Republic not to really allow the only cuts and the only victims of the pandemic to be the Ministry of Defence. We haven't seen the Secretary of Defense here in a while. But if he were here, I'm sure he'd agree with me. I'm not saying there's no way to look for savings in the defense department. But in the search for resources for remediation of the damage caused by pandemics, it is necessary to proceed sensitively and thoughtfully and to make only the most necessary adjustments and changes. For example, Prime Minister, it is not appropriate to interfere with the military's key modernisation projects, which are designed to increase our defence capabilities and are in line with NATO's defence planning and fulfilment of our commitments. If we want to be prepared for new threats - and we know that they will, unfortunately, because the world will not be safer, especially after what is happening now, it will not, you know, our colleagues know it, they know it beyond the borders of the Czech Republic. So if we want to be prepared for new threats, if we want to be prepared for cyber attacks on our critical infrastructure, which we have also witnessed recently, we should also keep spending money on key research and development. These are all things that we must not forget, and we must not allow these cuts to take place here, even if we all understand that there will be funds to be looked for somewhere. So I consider it important to say loudly once again here: There may be a situation that we cannot do without an army, so please do not make it a scapegoat on the altar of the remediation of the economic effects of the pandemic in the future. Let's look for resources elsewhere. As Vladimír Špidla said, resources are. Colleagues, colleagues, all you have to do is look around the landscape, and you will see the unseen floods of the rich yellow color of the plan of rape, which cost our budget of support and tax relief a considerable amount of money. Let me just remind you that we are no longer forced by Union rules to support biofuels of the so-called first generation. Moreover, it is a hole in the state budget that we could have closed a long time ago. Last spring. And it didn't happen, classically and only because of the opposition of Members and Members, yes, although the Prime Minister will always play such a cute game with us that he will say, I would like it just as much as you would, but those colleagues didn't support me, imagine. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unfortunate for our nation that at this moment their lives, their destiny is in the hands of the reign of chaos. I think today the motion to prolong the emergency situation will certainly pass. We don't know if by a week, two weeks, three weeks, a month. He'll pass. I want to appeal to all the ministers of this government, to the Prime Minister, to be responsible, to weigh every other restriction on our freedoms, to limit the freedoms of people who - yes, for over 30 years we have lived in free society. Maybe we're being held up, and maybe we're getting used to it. But I don't want to wake up here every day to some uncertainty you come up with. Do less press conferences! Less measure your ego, whoever you say! More communication with us as an opposition! We - I think the citizens' democrats - have not only been at our town halls throughout this crisis, but here in the House have shown that we can cope with crisis situations, that we have experience with them from the past, whether they were floods or various other natural disasters. We were offering you a helping hand. We're offering you the helping hand. But please don't take advantage of it! And I am also glad that, for the first time since the Prime Minister here today, the words of recognition of the opposition have also been heard, of thanks to the opposition, because indeed the Civil Democratic Party has behaved constructively and intends to continue to behave constructively during this pandemic. We are not - in this respect, I will use the word - suicides who would like to put the Czech Republic in a situation where it is not economically possible or in a situation where people and doctors will actually die here to solve who they prefer to save. We don't want anything like that. We're ready to cooperate, help! But please, do these precautions non-chaoticly! Make them so that not only we politicians who have access to information better than ordinary citizens, if that is what we want, but those ordinary citizens know what awaits them in a day, in three, a week, and they can plan their lives and business activities accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. Mr Jan Birke will be next in the debate. No. Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek, President of the ANO Parliamentary Club, is entitled with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u38	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, colleagues. I would just like to respond briefly to your speech by Mrs Černochová, who said one thing here. I have no idea what this has to do with the current situation. However, here she appealed to not supporting first-generation biofuels. My colleague, through Mr President, please, nicely, first-generation biofuels are not at all - at all - supported. Not a penny! Please do not confuse our public through the President. The European Union wants us, as all the countries of the European Union, to respect 10% of renewable energy in transport and 6% of emission reductions. That is all the European Union wants from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u39	Thank you. Now... [[This is Mrs. Cernoch.]] De facto remarks are not permitted from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jan Birke will speak in the debate. Mrs Valachová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u40	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, dear government, fellow Members, allow me today to speak with the support of the proposal to extend the emergency situation to the 25th of next month, for one simple reason that I will allow you, perhaps, to tell a story here as the first of the previous speakers - and I apologize for telling you the story - the story of the mayor who has actually experienced the emergency situation, as they say, in full swing since 12 March. [[15.30 hours]] First of all, I mean, who I'm gonna talk about, I don't want to touch anyone, no way. On the contrary, I want my speech to be critical of the opposition or my coalition partners or even my fellow party members. But let me tell you the truth, and I'll tell you the story, it's true, which actually happened. As is already known, I am the mayor of the town of Náchod in the Hradec Králové Region, which has over 20,000 inhabitants. On March 12, a state of emergency was declared, and I had suggested that we purchase drapes and respirators into the city's property within my remit and within the board's competences. My colleagues asked why I was doing this, why I was doing this, why I was acting like this, why I wanted to do this. And it's just because I started reading the situation and predicting it, and not just me, but also my colleagues, what the situation was like in Italy, Spain, Europe, but above all what the situation in China was like at that time. All I had to do was make one phone call when I found out what was going on in the national reserves in terms of protective equipment, and that was a clear appeal to me that if I didn't have drapes and I had a similar status, we couldn't give anything to those people who, as we all say today, are on the front line. On Sunday, just as I suspected, I called the first crisis crew and began to report to the first doctors that Monday morning they started ordinating and had to go to work and they didn't have drapes and they didn't have respirators. And the worst part of it was that they were actually scared because they were coming at them COVID-19, at the time when we cut it back, so actually, let's say, a very dangerous thing that we were all experiencing at the time very emotionally and very scared. Yesterday I was driving around town and I'm not saying that only in Náchod, but in the Czech Republic today I feel that people are not so scared anymore. Of course, to some extent they wear drapes and so on, but it's not so intense anymore and we all feel that it's not that intense. And I don't want to mention the markets in Prague on Navigator and so on. It's just not that intense. And it's so good, it's very good, of course, that it's not intense. However, precisely because we were wearing drapes, we began to present the gift immediately to doctors, dentists, specialists so that they could ordinate in the morning. Suddenly, out of nowhere, and I'm sorry I didn't say that in any word, it was said that the borders were closing. dáma and gentlemen, I say that the Czech army arrived for the first time from 1945 to Náchod. And I must say that the elite soldiers, the Chrudim paratroopers, have arrived. Now, I'm sorry, but these guys went through war, these guys are heroes, and they came up with scarves on their mouths. They weren't protected by anything. Nothing! All that was left was to give them the respirators right away, because they're in the front line, because then the Polish side decided to move four trucks in an hour, and you all remember that the longest line ever made from Náchod to D11, 54 kilometers, you all remember that. So in other words, these people were pulling out the long line of Italian drivers who had a temperature of 38, with scarves on their mouths. All of a sudden, I found out that there's a customs office next to them that falls under the Minister's office. And, of course, I immediately contacted the Minister and told her that people don't have protective equipment and we need to help them. So we immediately pulled out the aids and gave them to customs, the secretary can confirm, because they were on the front line and basically immediately helped at the border. I don't want to tell you an emotional story here, because I can tell you a whole bunch of things and so on. In the meantime, half my office fell into quarantine so it wouldn't get in the way, because in short, a good accountant was on COVID-19. Meanwhile, in a situation where we had a positive man on COVID-19, and those genius colleagues from the Water and Sewer Organization themselves said who he was, he was the Director of Water and Sewerage in Náchod, so he was organized on social networks, that he is actually the one who carries the disease here, he is the insidious one. I just want you all to remember what the situation was like. The situation was frightening in many ways, in many situations and in many ways. I mean, before the bridge actually came, before it became a supply of respirators and masks, we stayed in it, and I think there's a whole bunch of mayors sitting here that are over 6,000. Everyone's emotional in some way. Now I don't want to speak as the mayor's deputy, I wouldn't dare. But everyone felt it in their own way. Someone more, somebody less, somebody more tragic, somebody less tragic. At this point, I can give another example where we had to secure critical infrastructure, where we basically had no option at all, because there were no protective equipment coming from the region at all, because the central system wasn't working at the time. We have a heating room in Náchod, these people must be at dispatch for 24 hours. We have social services. We had to give these people social services. And all of you who are mayors, you certainly provided volunteers. And I have to say, this level of people's solidarity at the beginning was fantastic. The drapes started to sew, and just like my previous speakers here said, I'm glad it brought people together. I felt like our hockey players came from Nagan. I had this feeling that we were all once again a great united nation - until the moment when there was actually a situation where all this stuff I'm talking about, and I'm really glad that my colleagues here are talking about not wanting to end this emergency situation, because if they stop and we don't supply it, and not just supply it with sluices, because it's not just about the sluices, but let me introduce you to one more situation. You all know that Náchod is a border town and about 15 percent of the city, which is just beyond the border, which is the city of Kudowa-Zdroj, is employed in Náchod. The moment he's finished, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, seven days or ten days from now, emergency status, the army will leave and the border will open. And now I'm gonna say a very unpleasant thing, and I'm sorry that I might piss someone off. But do you know how much a COVID-19 test costs in Poland at this point? 3,600 crowns. Those people who haven't been to the Czech Republic for a month and a half because they don't have a paycheck can't even buy it. The problem is, the tests aren't used, but they're not available. Each state solves it in some way and each state has different problems. I just want to say that at this point, we have opened up borders, and if we end up in an emergency situation, the floodgates will actually open up and the people who will come to us for jobs that are currently over 50,000 at the Czech-Polish border will come into the Czech Republic completely uncontrollable and we don't know if they will have positive or negative tests. I'm pointing that out. And I don't want to haunt this place, I just want us all to realize the consequences of ending an emergency or a crisis situation, if you will. I'm sorry, I didn't want to be emotional, and I really don't want to cause any reactions, and I don't want to touch anyone. [[15.40 hours]] At this point, I would very much like the House to agree, on the Prime Minister's proposal, to extend the emergency situation until 25 May. And the reason is we just need to be perfectly prepared for what might happen. There may be a situation where, as has been said, supplies can continue to a large extent through the Vice-President of the Government of Mr Hamáček, or they can end, and we must, of course, have equipped and secure supplies of hospitals and other infrastructure that we need. I know I'm not going to talk you through my speech, but on the other hand, I wanted to share my personal experience with you. I've really been through this. And I can say other things here that I've been through, the good and the bad. And I confess that I understand that to some extent the opposition's task is to criticise the government, and I do not question it etc. etc. But I had the first time yesterday after the covide of the city council and I admit that I was a little worried because when you have a problem like this in the city, you don't actually have time to talk to the opposition, you often make mistakes. And I admit that I've made a whole series of mistakes for that month and a half, when you work under pressure, you work 11 hours a day, and actually everything depends on you because you have to make decisions, and sometimes decisions that are fast, automatic and sometimes conflicting. Then you'll make a mistake. Everyone makes mistakes, and who doesn't make mistakes, so I want to get to know him personally. Except for the fact that I don't see it that way because I'm not the center of media attention every night. On the other hand, the government has never been in such a situation. No government in this country, and I confess that it works in this regime, hand to heart, for none of us is at all pleasant. They say people who are under pressure are either gonna shoot professionally and handle the situation, or they're gonna break it and they're done. It is not pleasant to work under pressure, colleagues will certainly confirm it to me, because everyone has certainly experienced incredible pressure, and in my opinion, the pressure is still waiting, because in short and well sometimes, when you are in crisis, you have to make your own decisions. And I don't want to be an attorney to the government here. But in short, and well, there are a number of things that have gone wrong that may seem chaotic. On the other hand, the truth is, and I can be critical that I don't actually know how to open schools until today because nobody told me. Okay, great, when the minister comes, I'll ask him if he doesn't, so let him write it down. It is true that, on the other hand, who I want to communicate with, who, whether it is Minister Petříček, or Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček, who, in fact, if I were not to communicate directly with the Vice-President of the Government of Hamáček, I will tell you that the 74 Ukrajinec who remained three days after the border was closed, and you all remember that, would be there until today. Until today. So I'm telling you, this is a huge problem, too, and I'm not going to name all the people who helped me because as much as they're helping me, they were helping you. But the truth is, if you want to, you get the information. If he wants to, he'll ask. And if he wants to, he can process the information and give it to people, of course. I don't want to say and say cheaply here that I'm just gonna take information and criticize the other side because it's making mistakes or telling me wrong. No. But the truth is, and I understand that a whole bunch of things can be understood that way, and they can be understood that way. On the other hand, at this moment or for this moment, I wanted to tell you my story. My story, which I am in my entire career - and I dare say not completely unsuccessful, virtually. mildly successful mayor - never experienced. Never. And I'll admit I've had a few hot moments, but it's always been moments, but I haven't actually had permanent stress since March 12th. And I'll admit it's not pleasant for anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, I know I haven't convinced any of you, I hope I haven't offended any of you. But what I'm trying to say is that the government is doing a job that, at least for me, for one mayor of the 6.5,000, is that I'm not afraid - and now I'm sorry to take the word of my previous speaker into my mouth - I'm not afraid to wake up in the morning. And now I'm not being sarcastic, no way. And maybe it's because I admit that I can handle the information, and now I mean it really isn't sarcastic, but I can deal with it or I can process it. It's up to us, in the cities, how we decide with the parking zones, how we decide with the blue zones, and at this point, I don't think it's some big big deal, because it's just and well in charge, at city hall, at the councils, whether they decide whether they're gonna make parking or not, and we're not gonna beat who's gonna do it sooner or later. On the other hand, I must say that we really need to know some things in time. And maybe here I'd like to talk to these schools, especially those schools, that we need to know what we're up to -- now I'm talking about self-government. But otherwise, as far as other things go, they work very well, and I actually have a good feeling that because the airbridge works -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u41	Then I would ask you to turn off your cell phones so that the Member can comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, I'm actually done. When the air bridge works, based on it, the republic is relatively calm. In that sense, people who are supposed to have what they need when they go to work are not at risk on their lives, because they actually have those protective equipment that they're supposed to have secured. I guess that's it. So thank you so much for your attention, thank you. I hope I didn't touch anyone, but I wanted to tell you a story that actually happened. Thank you for your attention. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u43	Well, have a good afternoon. We have 11 Members of Parliament in order at the moment, so I will request a speech from Mrs Kateřina Valachová and Mr Jan Zahradník will be prepared. Now, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support the extension of the emergency period, and I have the following reasons for doing so. In recent weeks, perhaps even months ago, many citizens of the Czech Republic have joined up with all the restrictive measures that will go away if the emergency is lifted. But it's not like that. It's actually the opposite. Only the emergency situation and the emergency measures that we can take within it, not just the government, but I would like to emphasise the components of the integrated rescue system, i.e. Firefighters, police, emergency services, I'd like to remind our mayors, the captains. I am glad, by your means, Mr President, that Jan Birke here, as Mayor of Náchod, has told a specific story, a specific situation that he has been forced to deal with in recent weeks, and it is clear to all that if there was no emergency situation and could not take extraordinary measures, he would not be able to do so. [[15.50 hours]] So I'm here to extend the emergency. And from the point of view of law, it is important to recall what also, as has been said here through some of my previous speakers, has also said directly to the court freshly in the context of the judicial decision that if we want to restrict rights in the territory of the whole Republic, it is possible only through crisis law and through emergency conditions. I would also like, as Chair of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution, to recall its meeting on 2 April, where we were discussing this, and also we, the members of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution, have had opinions and analyses here that testified precisely to the fact that the right path is the path of crisis measures, crisis law and emergency situation. So once again, I myself am in favour of extending the emergency situation, and not that our country should perhaps become a dungeon for the citizens, but precisely so that, through the extraordinary measures that we can take as a government, we can get our lives back to normal as quickly as possible, as we are used to and as we all wish. As for the emergency situation in the extension, you know that the last time the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister of the Interior advocated an extension of the emergency situation until 15 May. I, regardless of the outcome of today's vote, believe that at least this will be fulfilled at the moment, and I would also like to emphasise, as Chair of the Permanent Commission on the Constitution, that the Government should certainly take these steps clearly, predictablely from the point of view of the timetable of the measures, so that this is clear for citizens and businesses and entrepreneurs. I am glad that the government has done so in recent weeks, and I believe that the government ministers' speeches, as they have said here, could convince all of you, regardless of whether you stand for coalition or opposition lines, that ministers do so and that they are ready to do so. So, for me, an extension of the emergency, a procedure under the emergency law. These steps will enable the government, but also the integrated rescue system and our mayors and captains to do what they have to do to bring life back to normal in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u45	That was Mrs Kateřina Valachová, and now I have a request for a performance with priority rights. With the opinion of the KSČM club, Mr. Ondráček will speak. So Mr. Zdeněk Ondráček will appear and Mr. Jan Zahradník from ODS will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, allow me to brief you briefly on the position of the KSČM MEP, who, during the debate, after hearing the opening words of the Prime Minister and all the ministers who wanted to speak in the first part, took a break, and we agreed on some of our next steps. Before I introduce you to the whole conclusion, allow me, in a nutshell, to evaluate the course of the debate that has taken place here, respectively, after the speeches of all the members of the various political parties represented here in the Chamber of Deputies. You know, I've only been a member of the Central Crisis Staff for a month or three weeks, as well as some representatives of other opposition political parties, where we have the opportunity to participate in those negotiations and we have the information you have discussed here. I am therefore surprised that your representatives, who we have on the Central Crisis Staff, are not giving you this information, because then some of the performances that have been here could not be presented in this way. Or maybe that's the intention, but I'll leave it up to you. I would simply like to say and recall, the Central Crisis Staff has stated, or says, that purchases from the People's Republic of China, which Mr Birke also spoke of, ensure the bridge and those purchases as such are to end on May 5 of this year, with the fact that the last flight, if I remember correctly, is May 2nd. At that point, we will have all the protective work aids that the Ministry of the Interior has negotiated with the first purchases here in the Czech Republic, and these aids should last here until May 27th, plus minus, let's not take it exactly. Already 14 days ago, the Central Crisis Staff, through its Deputy Minister of the Interior, addressed the need for further purchases in order to secure protective work equipment, with provisions for the next two months or so. The fact that this is not being realized is one thing, and I am sorry that there are, say, discrepancies between the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Health, but I believe that this will be resolved this week, at the latest at the beginning of next week. On the Central Crisis Staff, we also heard how they deal with purchases of protective work equipment from a neighbouring country, and most often the Federal Republic of Germany mentions when the Federal Republic of Germany already prefers its manufacturers and allows them to produce protective work aids. Basically such a thing, and we talk about it quite often here during debates, is also probably a requirement for us here, Members in the Czech Republic, who we say, to buy mainly from Czech producers. The shopping is possible, of course, if there's an emergency. If we go into a standard regime, it is a law on public procurement, and I can no longer imagine, and so says the Ministry of the Interior, or other politicians, to draw up such procurement documents for the award of a public contract that would favour the Czech manufacturer. That would immediately end up at the UOHS, and the contract would be canceled. So if we are also talking about how to give priority to producers from the Czech Republic who have transferred or changed production and are able to supply a certain percentage of protective equipment or tools for the Czech market today, then only well. However, in order to ensure a possible change of law for at least the duration of this, there is also a need for some legislative changes, which is why I was very happy to hear the assignment on the Central Crisis Staff on Thursday afternoon to the Ministry of Industry and Trade in cooperation with other ministries to find out how this could be done within the Federal Republic of Germany and to be able to convert such a model to the conditions of the Czech Republic. A clever quarantine has also been mentioned here several times. Your representatives at the Central Crisis Staff could confirm that it was first tested in the South Moravian Region, where in some way, it has proven itself, or it has developed, say, imaginary flies, started to be carried out in the Moravian-Silesian Region, now it is starting on the territory of the capital city of Prague and the Central Bohemia Region. There is also a need to say about this clever quarantine if it can work in this guard if there is no emergency. So I see all the pros and cons, and I have also made some comment about the decision of the court. We have achieved that we have freedom of movement, that we can travel freely, but only to the state border, where when you try to cross the state border to the Republic of Poland, you won't be allowed there if you want to get to Slovakia, so if you cross the border into the Federal Republic of Germany, the police will stop you after 300, 500 metres and if you tell them you're going shopping or going to relatives, then the regular will turn you and drive you back, perhaps even with some fat fine. So, while we were able to pass the judgment of the Court of Freedom of Movement, we were able to move only around the Czech Republic, which we had anyway. Air transport doesn't work, so far, rail transport international doesn't, you're not driving, because I just mentioned that, so it's one of the things that it is. So a smart quarantine can go on and on. [[16.00 hours]] We agreed to propose, after hearing your discussion, where the deadline for the extension fell a week until May 7th, an extension of ten days until May 10th and, of course, a proposal from the government, which is until May 25th, we will propose, as with the previous extension of the exceptional situation, a deadline until May 17th. May 17th. And we will be submitting two accompanying resolutions, asking the government for two points that would be fulfilled in terms that are here. In case it succeeds, I can guarantee for the KSČM club that we are ready at any time - because we are paid for it here - at any time at the request of the Government and the occupation of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and in case there is a need to extend the emergency situation by another week or 14 days. Such a situation may occur even if any of the measures we are taking here in an emergency should, for example, be blocked or deliberately not taken in the upper chamber of the Chamber of Deputies and would be needed for the further functioning of our state. Let me inform you at the end of this motion for a resolution of the KSČM club when: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requests the Czech Government to submit to the Chamber of Deputies 1. draft legislative amendments that would allow the central purchases of protective work equipment, especially from Czech manufacturers, with a deadline until 10 May of this year. - That basically means almost 14 days for this legislative change. 2. Proposal for measures to be adopted on the basis of the Public Health Protection Act following an emergency. - This term doesn't need to be that long. Individual talks by ministers are basically saying that there are measures, or there is a framework, but we would like it to be written in order to be able to work with it. We will set a deadline here until May 5th of this year. I would like to conclude completely that the lives and health of our fellow citizens are our first priority, which is why we approach this responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u47	I thank Mr Ondráček. I would like to ask you if you can bring me these two resolutions up here. Well, I'd like to recap. We have six proposals so far. One government until 25 May; then the ODS proposes by 7 May; The SPD proposes an extension of 7 days plus one resolution; KDU-ČSL proposes an extension of 10 days - and only an amended accompanying resolution, so it is necessary to clarify; STAN proposes an extension of the emergency situation until 10 May; and now the KSČM proposes to extend the resolution to 17 May plus twice. So then we're going to vote orientally first and then in the order of those who get the most votes. We'll continue the discussion. I therefore see no priority right now, so I will ask Mr Jan Zahradník to resign from the ODS and Mr Dominik Feri will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, please have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u48	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, colleague Birke has mentioned some of his memories. I would also like to say what I remember. I am one of our three colleagues next to my colleague Petr Bendl and Stanislav Juránek, who declared an emergency and worked within it. It was 18 years ago, in 2002 during the floods. At that time we declared a state of danger, then in cooperation with the government and the emergency in the territory of our regions. I have to say that I know how easy it is to fight this disaster, whether it be a flood or an epidemic, to bring about an emergency, how it accelerates the processes of protecting the lives and health and also the property of citizens. At the same time, however, I also know that these decisions need to be made with great care in the context of an emergency and with regard to respect for the law. I've signed dozens, maybe hundreds of emergency decisions, and I've tried to keep her legal. The more I was surprised by the fact that I noticed the announcement of an emergency with understanding, the more surprised I was about how the fulfilment of the emergency continued, with what uncertainty the government was working with, how it changed its decisions, until finally the Municipal Court had to enter the game. One thing is to declare an emergency. This is a thing that goes quite quickly, these things happen quickly - water is flowing, communities are flooding or the number of sick people is increasing, the system is coming to some collapse and it needs to be faced. So declaring it's fast. The second thing is to end the emergency. Let me give you an example here. As part of the flood, we noticed when the level in Rožmberk pond reached its highest level, that its dam appeared to be malfunctioning, cracks. We have decided to evacuate the three municipalities under the dam - Lužnice, Klec, Frahelž, in an emergency, that we are evacuating their citizens. They didn't care, there was no water, they didn't notice any flood at the time. Only behind their backs was the 70 million cubic meters of water in the Rožmberk pond beyond the dam, which, if it burst, meant a certain death for them and other people. We were wondering when we were gonna end this situation. At the time, in cooperation with the professional company, we wrote a list of the ten measures that need to be met, and we will cancel the state of evacuation, the emergency, starting with the change in weather, the drop in the level, the end of the phenomena on the dam, the remediation of the dam by means of gravel sand and so on. And gradually - and we have introduced those citizens to this - we have gradually, as we have checked out those points, so we have also informed those citizens through the mayors. When we had all ten of them, we canceled the evacuation and the citizens could return. I know it's something else, that the flood is coming, it's flowing, it's licking the wounds. This is different. I understand that, and I do not envy your position in this epidemic, in this pandemic. But it bothered me that you didn't make a similar move, that you didn't make a list of the conditions for an emergency. That you didn't make certain points that, let's say, even under public supervision, you could tick off, say so, and now it's okay, and we can cancel the emergency. So we want, we don't want, it's a thing we don't know. And, of course, I agree with the termination of the situation, I am in line with the President of the ODS, Petr Fiala, and I will support his proposal. I would like to mention two more things. One thing is that the emergency certainly gives the government extraordinary powers and there is sometimes a fear that those powers, exceptional at the moment, could somehow become stable. That it would simply remain that the restrictions on freedom that we have adopted on ourselves could also be permanent. We'll say, it's not possible, it can't happen, our democracy can prevent it. I have an example for this, too. In 2007 Orkán Kyrill came, a large amount of wood fell in Šumava. That's when Minister Bursík took advantage of the situation, bypassing the law, and by leaving the wood lying down, he actually caused a crusty calamity and significant damage to Sumava. True, it was "only" Sumava, this is about people's lives. So I would very strongly warn and call for the government to be aware that its powers are temporary and that our Parliament should not accept any restrictions on freedom under any circumstances. [[16.10 hours]] And one last thing. As part of the loosening up, we'll talk about it in point 3, you mention a lot of things, you open hobby markets, we let people in the gyms, slowly on the field - and still nobody says anything about schools. My colleague Birke mentioned that he didn't know how to open his schools, whose founder he is as the mayor of the village. Those kids are home. Their habits slowly dissolve. Getting used to getting up at 6:00 a.m., going to school, where they have to be at 8:00 p.m., sitting down, doing some homework, gradually disappearing. They happen at 9:00, 10:00. Sure, then they've got The učítelka, they've got homework, maybe they've got video conferencing. But the basic habit of leading pupils to hard work, to the knowledge of duty, unfortunately disappears. So one thing, I would also like to draw attention to this, so that we are aware of this. And then there's this other thing that doesn't apply to all students, but only about a hundred thousand, less than a hundred thousand applying to high school entrances. And a similar number awaits what the terms will be. Sometimes it seems to me that the government is making fun of them. The Minister simply said: If everything goes well, the entrance exams will be in June sometime. They should have been. A week ago, these candidates were supposed to have passed their exams. It's not like that. Many of them learn very intensively. I know not all of them. Some schools would be happy if there weren't any entrance exams. They're not gonna fill full capacity in the first round anyway. There'll be time off for more rounds. But there are schools where the preparation is necessary, where sorting according to the benefits is not possible, because all applicants are slowly straight A's. So here I have to say that setting the deadline for entrance exams and math is a matter that I would very, very intensively turn to the Minister of Education to consider all the circumstances and declare those examinations as soon as possible. It doesn't matter if they're at the end of May or early June, but whether they just announce it, so that both the seniors and the candidates can prepare for a goal. I'm going to say one more time because I'm logged in at that point three, easing measures, into discussion. And then I'd take the liberty of making a brief presentation of the way in which this could be done. Thank you for your attention at this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u49	There. I will now ask for Mr Dominik Feri's speech and Mr Martin Kupka will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u50	Vice-President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear members of the government present, I will try to be more interesting than Secretary Schillerová's phone, but I would have to do a back flip. [[Secretary Schiller from the government bench: I'm working.]] I'm working too, but you should listen to me. And I would like to recapitulate a little of what the opposition has been objecting to for quite a long time and what has simply not been taken into consideration. I said here last time, "Dear government, you're not doing well with the measures." You're really not doing well. The courts have already been sued, and you're gonna lose. And really, the government lost it. Maybe she'll try now, or she's already filed a register with the Supreme Administrative Court, but the measures of a general nature have been lifted. Sure, I can pat myself on the shoulder: You were right, Dominik. But what good does that do me? Now I'm gonna try to say something else, and I'm gonna give the government, I hope, good advice. Government, please come proactively with the compensation law or the compensation mechanism. If this does not happen, you will not only face thousands of lawsuits from entrepreneurs, but - of course, you will win a part, you will lose a part - but you will significantly disrupt social reconciliation. That's one thing. The next thing I want to get to is, and I think it is, I can now allow me to say that what the government is doing for a month and a half is total communication chaos. Totally unmanaged government communication threatens all the functioning of our state and has significant economic consequences. The communication chaos began when the government decided to issue the measures under the Public Health Act and not the crisis situation. Because that's when she broke down the emergency and the precautions. This means that people who, unlike us, are not constantly working over the law, over the law, have combined these two things together. And all of a sudden, when we're dealing with an extension of the emergency, part of the public thinks that this means that all these measures are going to be extended. Why didn't the government explain that? Well, because the government acted like a fairy-tale sleigh that has a large number of heads that don't blow flames, but a measure where one head blows one measure, another head denies it again, another blows another measure, and creates just another and another chaos. Instead of explaining that these measures are something other than an emergency situation, and that it does not happen that one day one minister will present a plan of dislodgement of measures, so that the whole thing will go away by prolonging the emergency situation. Totally out of communication. We'll find a lot of cases like this. And how, for God's sake, in the rule of law, in a democratic rule of law, is it possible that a government decision that takes effect at midnight at 7:00 p.m. will be made public at 7:00 p.m.? I'm talking about rebooting the blue zones. For God's sake, the right is to be predictable! I've been told by people that... Like if the blue zones come back at midnight, I can't even deal with the parking lot because the next day the authorities are closed or the office where I'm supposed to deal with it. It's not possible. Yes, Prague intervened. But that's not what government decisions are supposed to look like. Another example of government communication chaos. So it is necessary to have a press conference, where measures were made to dissolve significantly, the Minister of Health stood there alone, all the other ministers probably framed him, and it is, of course, difficult for one person to ask him to have a complete overview of what the government is simply discussing, what measures he has taken, and to know them in detail. Then it happened that it was flying on the air, that universities would all open up. But the reality was completely different. Another communication chaos. Or that the Minister of Health doesn't know if the government has decided on an emergency or not. Another example of government communication chaos. And I don't think even government MPs can cover it up, because even government MPs have questions about when it will be, what it means here. I can open my establishment, it fits the clause, can't it? There are questions that come to the government. And I believe you're trying to answer them. But if the government were to direct its communication, communicate directly and clearly, the questions would be disproportionately less, and there would be much less disillusionment within the public. And I'll take another example of the government's total failure to communicate, and that's the abolition of the property acquisition tax. It's flying in the air. I've never heard of it, because it hasn't come to the House yet, but the Treasury Secretary has been talking about it for a hell of a long time. It blocked transactions in the real estate market. I know it'll come to us sometime. I know it. I know that, Madam Secretary. I know it. But why are you talking about this so long in advance? Don't you realize the consequences of this? Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that, in some form, the emergency situation will be prolonged. We know very well that social democracy, the ANO movement, and the Communists have agreed on something that they have simply high-fived whether it will be 17 days or how long it will be. But I'm asking the government for two things. Prepare the compensation mechanism and communicate fairly with people, communicate directly with them and communicate with them clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u51	There. I will now ask Mr Martin Kupka to speak and prepare Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government present. Thank you very much for the floor. I'm one of the guys who welcomed the court decision last week. Not because this decision would be right to us when we came up with a substantive criticism of the government's actions sometime around 23 March 2020, but because it is very good that in this situation it was said by the judicial authority that the government of law must apply in the Czech Republic. And even that the government of rights in an emergency situation is even more important for all citizens, for all state institutions to be governed, we could move back to normal life. I am one of those who call for real Czech society to return to normal life as quickly as possible. I'm not hiding it, I'm aware of the risk when it came from Mr. Birke's mouth, what experience and story he had as mayor of the city. I've had just as difficult a time as the mayor of a small village. And I see not only that a scenario similar to Italy or Spain has been avoided. I can see that. However, I have also seen a number of chaotic conflicting measures lately that do not put people at ease, make them insecure, and in this difficult situation act against the important return to normal life. I see a whole range of entrepreneurs who remain helpless, cry out for her and fight for their lives. I also see a number of businessmen who are very difficult to cope with the situation. It's not easy for any of them. I also see a lot of people who have stayed home alone and who are very hard to deal with. I see a whole range of people seriously ill who put off visits to the hospital. That's why I say very seriously and responsibly that it's not just the protection of society against the spread of COVID-19. The equation is much more complicated. And on the other hand, of course, there are a number of seriously endangered people. On the other hand, therefore, there is also protection of lives and health. It's not black and white, and it's up to us to balance this. First of all, it is up to the government, but I reject the black and white vision that has been heard many times, and most often from the Castle, that there is only one aspect, and that is protection from the spread of COVID-19. It is more complicated, and on the other hand, there are also human lives and also health protection. What we need and what we still don't get. It sounded here, and it even partially appeared in documents for today's government negotiations, what are the data that has been obtained. Unfortunately, however, there is still a number of important information missing and remaining in the minority. There are really relevant studies in the minority that would show how the individual population groups are doing. It remains, I fear, still unnoticed for the Ministry of Education study, which came from Iceland and which mapped quite precisely what risk the youngest people pose for spreading the disease and, for example, for their own health. It is this type of study that is important for how to set measures well and how to set them logically so that they do not have to be horizontal measures, but really for what epidemiologists call for in the Czech Republic to do, that is to correct the selection measures that prevent the spread of coronavirus. We witnessed a dispute here in the public space between exorcists and mariners. But on the one hand, they are still not available, especially for individual cohorts, as they appear more and more often in the media, there are no clear figures what it really means for each group of people, what it means for age categories and how to deal with it. It is often published from the context of isolated individual numbers about the number of infected, but there is no information on what trends are, and this is much more important for the evaluation of these measures. So I'm calling for the government and the epidemiologists to come up with as much key information as possible with the possibility of interpretation, based on actual findings, of actual measurements. I fear that, in this sense, without determining who to focus on, even the current survey will have significant limits. What I'm calling for is the quickest way to return normal to school. It would be said that it is not produced in school, but I consider the current restriction to be very important in terms of children's habits, even in terms of their future life, simply because the rules especially for children of that school age are simply important. And here, too, we don't get, actually, any of us, clear answers or a signal that it's one of our priority interests, that we just have to deal with it, and there's a lot of uncertainty in it. We, on March 23, 2020 in order to find a functioning legal framework and prevent a number of problems, sent the Interior Minister Jan Hamáček a proposal to amend the crisis law. In this proposal for an amendment to the crisis law, we have brought some important changes. First, so that state aid can also involve legal persons and, for example, regions, so that there is a real legal framework for the settlement of aid and for the prevention of possible conflicts in the event of litigation. In the same way, we have also incorporated important defences in the draft crisis law against, for example, repeated claims of damage, so that the State aid granted can be deducted from any compensation for damage. A very useful tool. I don't know if the fact that it was black and white and it clearly pointed out that the Czech Republic would have to deal with it, that it would have to deal with damages, if this is what it didn't contribute to the government's decision to move those regulations from the crisis law regime to the Public Health Act. Whatever the case, the court has made it clear at this point. In any case, I am still calling for this amendment to the crisis law for all other situations to take place and it was quite clear how the Czech Republic will deal with similar situations. Minister Schillerová mentioned here that it would be important for the Czech Republic and for the return to normal life to be able to invest enough. That's for sure, I'm very emphasising it. I also add to this our important call for the government to provide assistance to municipalities, towns and regions in this regard, because repeatedly cities, municipalities and regions have shown that they are able to invest well, that they are able to invest in such a way that it has a direct impact on the functioning of cities and municipalities as well as on the promotion of specific entrepreneurs, businessmen who work there. It is precisely through the promotion of investment in municipalities and cities that important support for businessmen and entrepreneurs in individual regions could be achieved precisely in this way. We have even come, I would say, with a very transparent way of making it out of the money that the European Union has reserved for the Czech Republic, some 33 billion. Crowns. About 10,5 billion. to assist municipalities and cities with investments - i.e.; and (b) with the costs of repairing or restoring municipal property, each municipality would receive a thousand crowns per citizen. In a similar way, the Czech Republic sends the money to municipalities and cities, even in the case of elections with a minimum of administrative claims, only to prove that the funds were used in this direction. A clear step, a clear instrument, a clear injection to prevent investment from being limited in cities and municipalities, but vice versa, in order to strengthen them in this respect. Similarly for the regions, direct investment in the roads of the second and third classes through the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure and half a billion into that package of 15 billion. CZK reserve for projects that are already checked by the SFDI is fine, but there is no resources for them yet. This would be a way of effectively helping to build up and invest right away in the regions. Yes, I am in favour of extending the emergency situation to the shortest possible time. I think the people in the Czech Republic have shown that they are able to deal very responsibly with the emergency situation. I am convinced that it is time for us - and the government in the first place - to repay them with confidence. They believe that even if there is no emergency, they will continue to be considerate and responsible for the regulations and recommendations of health professionals who have repeatedly spoken. And it was the Czech public that dealt with the critical situation and dealt with it extremely, extremely positively. [[16.30 hours]] That is why I am in favour of the House actually speaking in this forthcoming vote for a maximum extension of seven days, so that on the one hand, the chaos that could arise with the sudden change can be avoided, but at the same time, so that the emergency situation does not last one day longer. In order not to hinder the return of the Czech Republic to normal, the Czech Republic to the normal order, which is simply important for every citizen who lives in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u53	I will now ask for a speech by Mrs Miroslava Němcová and Mr Petr Bendl will prepare himself. At the moment, we have eight registered speakers. So, madam, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u54	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the task of the Chamber of Deputies today is to decide whether we will comply with the Government's request to extend the emergency situation in the Czech Republic. Before I answer this question, I want to look back at the period that we have already experienced in an emergency. The emergency was announced on 12 March this year and was extended until 30 April with the approval of the Chamber of Deputies. In the meantime, things have happened that I see critically. I would like to mention some of them. The first, without a doubt, which I must say, and return to the beginning of that period just after that 12 March, is the failure of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to follow the law on crisis management, to appoint a crisis crew and to lead this crisis staff, as the law assumes, the Minister of the Interior. I think that at that time we lost valuable time, and we lost it because the Prime Minister played his PR games, he didn't think of the seriousness of the situation as much as his political points. And that's the first mistake that happened this time of year. The other one, I see, has been approached by excessive restrictions on civil liberties contrary to the Constitution and the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. After all, it also affects the decision of the Municipal Court. The third thing I see very critically was that the government's supreme approach to citizens, not to some, is also called papalas, to some high officials, whether they were civil servants or others. I mean, it's been threatened, and it's probably progressed, that people who don't, let's just say, have been exposed to really high fines, I think it was CZK 10,000. And against that, the entire nation watched a killer take place in Auschwitz, on whom preferential tests are coming in for all participants, health tests, I mean. And we should've let that kind of attitude get to us. Those excesses simply wobble up citizens' confidence that they treat everyone exactly the same way. The more serious thing, however, is that I would like to emphasise that, in my view, the sovereignty of our country has not been defended by the government as it should have been. I cannot forget how government officials stood at the airport and welcomed Chinese aircraft with goods for which we paid properly. I'm not saying it wasn't necessary, but it feels like it's from another world, so that the entire government, almost the entire government, would stand there and wave to the planes that bring in the goods that we paid for. It is as if at that moment it has been forgotten that China is the cause of the pandemic, that China has put up with this disaster, and now it is making massive payments for it. And it's like it's forgotten about Jaroslav Kubera. In this context, we are now learning in the last days when his family is witnessing, as was the pressure of the Chinese ambassador in the Czech Republic on the President of the Senate. The President and his men must have played a part in this, because the path of the castle chancellor or Mr. Advisor Nejedlý or Mr. Tvrdík to China has played a role. The next point that I think we should be interested in what happened was the conflicting positions of the government, what will happen, who will be able to function and in what regime can work and who can't. It was a surprise to me that the hobby markets were opened first. I wondered for a moment what the difference was between a hobby market and, for example, a normal market that is out in the open. That explanation by Vice Prime Minister Havlíček about the fact that the big hobby markets actually have access from the left and the entrance from the right and high ceilings, so it didn't even seem like a comedy genre anymore, that was really just stupid. But more importantly, I learned that one of these networks of these hobby markets was owned by an influential man, Mr. Šimáně, who... And the government said that there's a lot of pressure on her, and that there's always someone who's gonna get in touch, and that they're gonna try to adjust their decision accordingly. And I can't help but wonder that this illogical decision about letting these hobbies in was under some kind of lobbyist pressure. It's the only way I can explain it. What bothers me very much, and I want to underline it, is the total failure of the Minister of Education. But total failure is a complete tragedy that took place in the field of education, which was completely thrown overboard. The schools closed down and no one took care of them systematically, the government didn't systematically care for them. I find it unusual for the Prime Minister to explain that he may open these schools, but that they all have to, first graders to fourth graders, fifth graders to hold the distance of two meters. Minister Plaga will say the same evening that this is nonsense and that it cannot be done. Here, Minister Plaga is going to enforce an entirely abnormal abolition of the second term of uniform entrance exams for children from the fifth, seventh and ninth classes, which has neither economic nor epidemiological reason. We were simply trying to explain here that 100,000 children and their parents, grandparents, will be affected by the fact that these children will lose the opportunity that their predecessors had a year before and will have a year after them, at least I hope, even their followers. There was no reason to throw them overboard. It's only now that the parents' public is beginning to realize that when the exams are starting to get closer. And they realize that their children are losing this one chance at the most decisive stage of their lives when they want to get into a preferred school, when the two trials gave them the opportunity to get to that preferred school on the threshold of their lives. And that's what we've lost, or rather, that's what the government's taken from them. I mean, education - absolute tragedy. I think it is also worth mentioning what happened in the health sector. I understand that in the first phase, the medical process of the disease that was spreading had to be adapted. But even today, and it is not just today, it has been a few weeks maybe, it is a timid but ever-increasing public voices that need to return to normal operation, because it has been limited to the care of patients with other serious diagnoses and it may have intimidating health consequences for these patients, but at the same time the economic consequences for those medical facilities. The eighth reason I want to state as what bothered me in the last few weeks since 12 March is that, with the approval of the Chamber of Deputies, or part of its Members, i.e. coalitions, public finances have been decompensated. There was a long debate in the presence of the President of the National Budget Board, warning against this extensive debt, that there was no need to decide now about these huge debts, because this debate could concern us at normal times, not in an emergency situation, and we could decide how to proceed on the basis of the relevant figures. This is how we broke public finances for seven years and indebted the Czech Republic. [[16.40 hours]] It is worth adding as such a comment, or rather a sigh, that in the course of these votes neither the opposition proposal was heard, so that the money which under emergency conditions will be paid as loans or support to firms, so that the money does not reach companies from tax havens. The votes of the government coalition plus the communists, and with the approval of the Finance Minister, were allowed to reach these companies from tax havens for this crisis money. That's what I think is a mistake and it's supposed to be named. So if we're talking about what to do next, whether to extend or not to prolong the emergency situation, I think we should talk about three circles or three principles, if you like, which are health, democratic system and economy. As far as the democratic system is concerned, because I feel that it is a bit forgotten in the debate, I would like to address this principle in particular. As far as the democratic system is concerned, he has suffered serious cuts over the past five weeks. There are two court decisions. The first concerns the defective procedure of the government in the abolition of Senate elections for the deceased senator, President of the Senate Jaroslav Kubera, and the second concerns the transition from the crisis law to the Public Health Act. When we talk about how the opposition can or cannot in this situation contribute to the fact that the things that are - necessarily erring, so that the mistakes are as small as possible, I think that the Prime Minister himself does not contribute to this debate by making any public statement, and most of all it bothers me, and so I will say frankly, he bled when at that last press conference, I suspect that it was last Friday, the Prime Minister shouted emotionally that the Senate and the opposition are doing everything against the citizens. He argued that we were rejecting his laws and that they meant it so well that if there was no opposition, everything would be accepted. It bothers me that few journalists, or perhaps none, have asked how it is possible that they do not go through the government's laws in the House when they have a majority here. That's pretty clear. If you have a majority, you'll get away with everything you plan, especially if it's your priority. Secondly, I want to say that the Prime Minister was wrong, he just wasn't right. There is a nice text from Mr Jan Tvrdoň, who has worked with such statistics on how this was going, the legislative process in the Chamber of Deputies, and notes that 21 out of the 30 proposals the government has come up with in the last five weeks, 21 of the 30 have approved the Chamber of Deputies, the opposition voted for them. That's 70 percent. We also voted in favour of the extension of the emergency situation until 30 April. We didn't vote for the amendment to the tax code. That was a big argument. We did not want to harm our tradesmen and we did not want to strengthen when it came to the excessive deductions of VAT, we did not want to strengthen the government in that sense. We did not agree with the Act on budgetary responsibility. I was just talking about it. Just in debt for seven years without relevant numbers, I think it's a crime. The opposition, or the Civil Democratic Party, was not for that. And if we have tabled 101 amendments as opposition parties and 92 of them have been swept off the table by the government, please do not let the Prime Minister complain at any press conference as the opposition does not work, how he criticizes everything, how he does nothing and how he would do everything better. If out of 101,92 proposals are rejected, something is very wrong. Some of them eventually had to be accepted by the government in the next steps, knowing that the opposition was right. It bothers me that Minister Schillerová yesterday said how she would negotiate with the opposition parties as far as possible to prolong the emergency situation. She repeated it at a press conference, on TV. She said we act, we act. I do not know how, with whom, but I have verified that these negotiations were not conducted with the Civil Democratic Party. So if I come to the conclusion of what I wanted to say, on the question of whether to prolong or not to prolong the emergency situation, I will only vote for myself - together with the Citizen's Democratic Party MP - for the shortest possible extension, the seven days to maintain parliamentary control over the actions of the government, as the Constitution and the laws impose upon us. And if I had to make a request about what else should be done in this emergency situation, I would say I have three wishes. The first one would be that, in an emergency state, the government would proceed to complete cancellation of the electronic record of sales, or at least to postpone the 3rd and 4th waves at least until 2021, because today's current adjustment that everyone has to go to 3rd and 4th waves immediately after the emergency, means that all those banned hairdressers - some of whom may not be banned, as we observe around each other - but all the doctors who are now exhausted and are happy to handle the situation as they manage, will have to start taking care of all the bureaucracy associated with the transition to EET. My first wish, therefore, would be that the Finance Minister Alena Schillerová and, in turn, the entire government have submitted this proposal to abolish the EET, or at least postpone the 3rd and 4th waves until 2021. The second wish would be for the Minister of Education Plaga to present an amendment to the law immediately, so that children of the 5th, 7th and 9th classes would get a second chance back for uniform entrance exams at secondary schools And the third wish would be to return to the public finance debate, the budgetary responsibility law, and reverse the decision of our country's critical debt for seven years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u55	I will now ask for Mr Petr Bendl's speech. We have seven Members here at the moment. And Mr Stanislav Juránek will prepare himself. Sorry, I'm sorry. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal reporting with priority rights. I'm sorry, Mr. Vice-President. Please. You have the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u56	Yes, Mr President, thank you for the floor. I apologize to the colleagues I've outrun, but I'm in the process of driving, so it would be hard to pass on somewhere at the end, so I decided to exercise my priority right and get off now. Dear Prime Minister, if you can hear me somewhere, dear government, dear colleagues, I hope that much has already been said here, and I hope that my speech will not be entirely out of the wound that it has already been heard, but not all have said so yet. I would like to take a short look at why we are here today and how I will at least vote on the final decision. Because I guess no one doubts that today's emergency situation will be prolonged. Originally, this House meeting is surprising, unplanned, because we are simply responding to the decision of the court. The decision of the court is based on the fact that we should still have, even if there is an emergency and there is still a threat to lives and health, there should still be a rule of law. I therefore assume from this rule of law that it is understandable, predictable and verifiable. And the same must apply to those government regulations, whether they are issued under the State Security Act or under the Health Act. And unfortunately, that's not what it looks like. Looks like all these orders are issued on the basis of some random decisions, based on some mind movement, on some polls, or on some letters and wishes. It may be the pinnacle of democracy that governs polls and letters, but I think the rule of law is suffering after all. It suffers from people's confidence in the state, people's trust that things happen according to some assumed plan. [[16.50 hours]] The fact that what was true yesterday and said that it would still be true today will also be true tomorrow or at least today, that is just missing here, and that is my biggest problem with how it's been going on all along. I totally understand that the situation is not standard, but it would be great for me, and I think for a lot of people, there are a lot of people in my neighborhood who write to me: if we understood why and when these things were released. If there is any idea in which groups of residents visit different services that we choose to relax, and if it is purely by size, or if there is a moment of age, risk, etc. Because this is the information that I just miss, it's not in any epidemiological plans and surveys, it's just not released the plans, it's not released the models so that we can really discuss them. We're getting some slideshows that just aren't enough for a professional public debate. I do not want to contradict epidemiological plans, but I believe that there are experts who would like to be involved in this discussion, and people would also consider the plan more understandable if they knew why the measures were being taken. We all respect that the situation is non-standard, but we do not understand individual steps. And that's why it's so hard to support. Of course, I understand that it is still, as I said, a threat to health and lives. I understand that there is also some threat to the economy, because if we have such an intervention in business activities, then some threat to property is coming. I don't understand the fact that there have been any words in the justification that there is a threat to safety and order, that may be where I am interested in some details, but that is not the subject of the debate at the moment. However, if there are such threats, I don't know about them. And I think it's inappropriate to raise such concerns. As for the government's request to extend until May 25, with the fact that it will be the last extension, that is simply something I cannot accept. And neither you nor I nor anyone can promise that it will be the last extension. Because, as has been said here, no one has accurate information on the state of the population in terms of disease as far as the virus is concerned, which is why we can't know if it's the last extension. That's what I'm talking about. And that's why this isn't the last extension, virtually. I don't know for sure. And for this reason, I would like some better information than what I now have as a Member, and I simply cannot vote for the maximum extension with the promise that it is the last. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u57	I will now ask for a speech, and Mr Petr Bendl is on the order after a slight wait. You have the floor and Mr Stanislav Juránek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Distant Prime Minister, colleagues, allow me to say a few words about this serious issue, although I am a little afraid that any strong arguments that will fall here are actually doomed to fail in the date, because the Communists have already said here on May 17th, if I understood it well, so it is de facto painted. But I think we should at least give our opinion on the individualities that are here. The Prime Minister and his ministers often say that they are in a situation that the country has never experienced and that no one has had any experience with it. That no one really knew how and what to want from the situation, and that they were actually completely clueless and that anyone who does nothing would ruin anything. It's true that anyone who doesn't do anything isn't gonna ruin anything. It is also true that we have never had any experience with the epidemic. All the more so, we should have used the legislative channels that the Czech Republic has. I am a person who has experience with the Crisis Management Act, as well as my colleagues who were once forced to declare an emergency, and it was no fun at the time. Only in Central Bohemia we evacuated 24,000 people, and thanks to the help of integrated rescue systems, not many people died, as I remember, so in Central Bohemia it was two. But we'd never have the courage to say how many lives we've saved. It was simply our duty and we tried to help. And we tried to help quickly. 'Cause whoever's helping fast is helping twice. Unfortunately, the help, according to my deep conviction, and I am not the only one who thinks so, takes quite a long time, especially for companies that are small and medium-sized, there is enormous uncertainty. And if an emergency is declared until May 17th, we will continue to continue the chaos that is here from the perspective of an ordinary citizen, then we are simply gravediggers of those who are still trying to survive today and save their businesses, keep their employees and work on their future. The Home Secretary argued publicly, and I read his statement on Twitter that he needed an emergency for two reasons. That one was a travel ban. So there I hope that the government has already understood that it is not possible to prohibit citizens of the Czech Republic from travelling from the Czech Republic, because it is given by the Constitution and the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which is in this Constitution, and it is not possible to restrict someone to travel. Yes, we can take measures, and that is the legitimate right of the Czech Republic to lay down rules if anyone wants to travel. But if anyone wants to travel, they must follow not the rules of our state, but, of course, the state to which they decided to go, and that is a matter legitimately for other countries, our neighbours, or countries farther away. As for the next point, the absent Home Secretary said - which is also spicy, I think that he, like the Prime Minister, should just sit here right now and listen to the whole debate. He said he needed public contracts to keep them in a regime where there's no need to declare them out of hand. Basically, on the phone, handing out billions of orders. We in the Public Procurement Act have a system that allows us to give the contract so called. It is a unified procedure without publication, JŘBU, a number of ministers use it. Minister Maláčová has her own experience with this in the field of IT procurement, where she will have to, and certainly, maybe now the problem is over, because we have increased the deficit of the state budget, but the issue of IT procurement has, in particular, come up with a single procedure without publication, and therefore costs rise by up to a billion. The fact that government ministers can do this, JŘBU, is obvious, and so there is no reason to insist on an emergency situation on the grounds that I need to put orders out of hand so that I do not have to follow the Public Procurement Act. I think that's a gross mistake. I am all the more sorry that the proposal I have made here has not been passed, so that those ministers who have taken advantage of the emergency situation and awarded contracts without a tender, out of hand, in an emergency state, at least to publish relevant information and contracts. Unfortunately, the government majority here at the Chamber of Deputies' meeting rejected this proposal. I have-- he's not here with the Health Minister, so maybe someone will tell him. I spent hours of debate with experts, with testimonials who work in individual laboratories today and daily, and I asked them what the situation was like today, what the testing was like. And they introduced me to some of the facts I'd like to publish here, and I'd like to hear the Minister of Health's response to that. [[17,00 hours]] Labs were activated ad hoc for rapid diagnosis of COVID-19, since the four to five laboratories we had specifically on this issue were far from sufficient for the surge. I get that. And it's probably understandable. What is no longer understandable, and I would like to hear from the Minister of Health if it is true that each laboratory uses a different test set from another manufacturer, or simply whether it is true that not everyone uses the same test set. I also wonder if it is true that samples, unlike other severe diseases, such as HIV, such as hepatitis B etc., with which the Czech Republic has unfortunately its own experience of whether they are so-called confirmed, or whether they are retested. Because, according to my information, the same tests that laboratories do with them that are not stored, those samples cannot be rechecked, that is to say, it is not possible, unlike other samples in complicated diseases that the Czech Republic... is stored, stored for possible rechecking and possible finding of further data, whether it is true that the samples are not controlled. Then I want to ask if it is true - because what the experts in this area have told me is that the rapid tests work with a low degree of sensitivity, that is, with a low degree of ability to describe what the truth is. And if we then come out of this data, I think that God is with us and evil is gone, because the data cannot be credible, and at the same time if the samples are not stored, it is not possible to check whether the result corresponds to the reality or not, which I consider to be a scandalous and actually great delusion of Czech society, that by testing, we are able to find out how we are on the surface, what impact this virus has on Czech society. In indirect diagnostics, this means testing the immunity of the nation by the Ministry of Health, it is known that the infection of COVID-19 is in most cases so mild that it is so called symptomsless, i.e. without signs of immune reaction, that means without any signs of infectious disease, which usually involves small children, where it is mostly a kind of cold, where no antibodies occur, and therefore it is not possible to find out how they are with the body's defence at all, and the whole testing is actually unnecessary. Based on what I've learned from the information, it's most accurate to determine the antibodies in the serum, which is a portion of the blood that's removed from the diagnostic reaction of the interfering part of the blood cells and clotting factors, which is why this reaction is called serologic, when the blood sample needs to be rid of the blood cells and clots in the test tube and then search for the appropriate antibody. The Ministry of Health decided to use an inaccurate, indicative method with a high error rate, the rapid test of Rapid, which is made of blood from the finger, or venous blood, that is, from the blood full, i.e. freed for the reaction of unnecessary blast of blood cells and clotting factors. This will make the sensitivity of the test really very low. A number of countries around us are either already doing it, or they're starting to, using testing along with blood samples. If there are regular blood donors somewhere whose blood is tested for HIV and other individuals, samples are stored, we can work with them. The State Health Institute can check them at any time. This is the way in which the relevant data can be found. And according to my information, the Czech Republic does not provide it. And I want to ask why. Because what the Home Secretary is calling for is that he wants relevant, hard, clear data, if we know in advance that sensitivity of the tests is low, that samples are not stored, it is not possible to find out back how the situation is, unlike other types of diseases, so we are just ready for one big blaze. And it will be a political decision rather than a statement of really verifiable facts. In conclusion, I have two requests. A lot has been said about trying to deal with the situation in education, so I'm not going to talk about this issue anymore. I'm more likely to touch the area of sport and agriculture that I own. The government has allowed fitness centers to operate under some conditions, which I support and welcome. And I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are also bowling centres and other such sporting blessed activities and that they need to be thought of as well. And the second area is the area of equestrian sport, because it is a sport that takes place outside, it is certainly possible to adapt it to the conditions necessary for people to protect their own health, but it is certainly for the considered sport to play and to allow the riding sport to start working, even under some limited conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u59	Thank you, too. Good afternoon, everyone. And now, Mr Juránek in the debate, then Mr Adamec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u60	Prime Minister, Madam Vice Prime Minister, Mr President and colleagues, I am in the third place. I am the third of the officers present who once participated in the crisis management. A fellow zahradník started it, said something about history. My colleague Bendl is already in a hurry to help solve this matter here, and he has certainly come up with inspiring ideas. I'll be in between. I'm gonna try to zoom in a little bit the way I feel about it. As far as the matter is concerned, I, by chance, was still mayor in 1997 and was then a great flood in Moravia. And it didn't get here in Bohemia yet, that it was a great flood, because there was nothing going on in Prague at the time. And so the terrible flood, when the rivers left their troughs and the water flew irregularly through the landscape and suddenly in Troubky jumped over the hill and swept the village into the river, so this matter didn't even get into the awareness that it should be dealt with in any way big. That's 1997. In 2002, we were better prepared for floods. And since it was also in Prague, we learned much more about the floods. So I say completely responsible that the flood of 1997, which I experienced as mayor, was completely insane because you didn't know where the water was. And as they say, you run from the fire, but you can't run from the water. And as for the floods, there were different situations in different places. And my colleague Zahradník was at the beginning, because in southern Bohemia just fell water and immediately there was a flood, the dams were tearing, and he was actually in the front line. And at that point, no one knew what to do. We, who were a little further, had a chance, whether a colleague here in Central Bohemia, because a colleague Bendl is here, so I will say at least the regions that are represented here, and I in the South Moravian Region, we have had time for some time, that something was coming towards us. [[17.10 hours]] You know, and now I'm gonna say hard what was just beginning. So my colleague Birke, who I'm picking up, already knew the water was coming. He knew the disease, the pandemic was coming, from reading the papers. Let's face it, just a responsible mayor, and somehow he's prepared for it. And I am convinced that at the same time as my colleague Birke started, he was supposed to declare an emergency, and he was bound to proceed with the solutions, because what we experienced in the floods, the gradual solution, is accurately recorded and is at the disposal of the Ministry of the Interior, and so the government had it at its disposal. I'd just like to beg that if we talk in the past, I'm convinced that the emergency situation gives us a lot of options. And that's what I'm gonna keep coming out of. Because at this point, the problems we have have have largely managed to stand down as far as the health part is concerned. I am convinced that in those other areas, as has been said by the Deputy Prime Minister, as regards the economic area, we could have already taken on better matters where the emergency situation would have been met consistently. I'm just asking you, here's a chance to verify it historically and it's possible not to repeat these things again. In terms of time, I am dealing with what was going on, and I will say quite clearly that the first stages are always about you dealing with something unexpected, and here it was big because it touched the whole republic and it had to be reacted in some way. Well, I take the reaction on that side, but I want to say that the worst thing that came to this republic was fear. And the great fear has become weak at the moment, but there is still a large group of people who are afraid of what can come. So I would very much like to appreciate not only the government here, but I would like to appreciate all those who have started sewing drapes. Because it is a matter that has enabled us to find something to defend ourselves from fear and to fight against something that we don't even know exactly what it is and what it brings. And I would very much like to remember this thing, this idea that was unique throughout the world, and, after a while, the International Health Organization also had to admit that the drapes that we used to make on our knees or sewing machines in a fairly ordinary way helped us, after all, mainly because they freed us from fear and, above all, because they allowed us to fight the coronavirus, so they helped us very much in the fight at the beginning. When I talk about what else was and what we're missing right now, it's that we haven't prepared ourselves properly for the economic situation that's coming to us by forgetting some things in our budget. I think it should be such a challenge that we always have a spare in the budget for something to come - in our case it was a flood, in this case it's a pandemic, and anything else can come. And I think it's very responsible to leave a spare in the budget. The second thing we lack is the poor funding of social services, where I believe at this point that Achillův is a heel, and I say that at this point is the worst situation that is, in the way in which social services are financed this year. And here I'm just asking you not to forget them, because they're the most affected, but they're still just talking about being the most affected, and there's going to be a really special approach. And since the Treasury Secretary is here, I have a request to help find a solution. I'm sure he'll find it. So at this point, I should say what is going to happen and what is going to be my position. And I'm going to say that if I were the governor, at this point, I want to keep the emergency at least a month. And I'll tell you why. Since you have written in the crisis law that if some issues in the emergency state are not addressed by the government at the highest level, then the governor can expand them in his region, the mayor in Prague, and therefore all regional problems can be solved only in that place, which has a certain advantage and financial and not as a national decision. So at this point, I'm going to side with the captains, and I'm saying yes, they really need it, because when the emergency stops and they have to continue to deal with the crisis, the law clearly states: who commands who gives these things, that pays. And the budgets of the regions are not enough to solve problems in their social and health facilities, which are still piling up at the moment and are not sufficiently addressed. That means if I was the captain, I'd say as long as I could. However, given that everyone in that political system has a task to do, so does the MP in the Chamber of Deputies. And here I'm going to say that I'm missing accurate information on how to say, "I'm leaving you for a long time." That's why I say when someone's talking about seven days, well, it's the minimum thing to do, but I'll meet you here at the Chamber of Deputies. When someone else says ten days, it also seems to me that it is still in the decision of the next session of the Chamber of Deputies as it continues. Okay, then there's the 17th time we're going to think about it, because on the 17th, it's going to be like a proposal, and there's already a delay for me, and it means we're going to meet again here to stretch out the time if necessary. This means that I see from a Member's point of view that there is no need to stretch the time without being able to control what is actually going on in the context of the crisis law. Now I'm gonna tell you why I'm talking about this. When I dealt with matters within the region and it was necessary to make some crisis decisions within the region, I had to inform the council to convince them what and how I had loaded in the past, and also to tell them the preliminary plan of what I would actually require from the council in the future. I miss this here. And I would need so much to have a specific item that says yes, we made that decision, it cost us so much, we've spent so much, we're going to spend so much. And I am not prone to know everything exactly in advance, but now to account for everything that is happening, even with the need to exceed the budget, and that it is necessary to call on the Chamber of Deputies to agree to something. As a club, we agreed to the extra 100 billion, because we were just talking about 50 billion missing in the social field. I am sorry that I cannot speak directly at the moment, but I will also say this indirectly: I beg you to make the plan clear and the financing, and the steps we are taking. I also ask that we, as Members, can actually check that our decision in favour of a matter is actually being implemented as promised, or whether it is said that the situation has changed, and we will deal with it in a different way. So please, and I ask that we look for where Achillův' biggest heel is at the moment. I'll say it in the end. There was talk of a number of laws that we should change. I'm convinced most people don't need it. I'm sure it's not necessary in the case of the Crisis Management Act, because it's all there, it just needs to be filled. But what's the biggest brake at the moment is the Public Procurement Act. I think that the Public Procurement Act to build on the things and realities that exist, and which in the future allows us to end the emergency situation earlier and not ask for an extension of the emergency situation, is precisely the law that we need to focus on. So I will be third in the order of those chieftains who have experienced two major floods, give only this one recommendation for the future. The Public Procurement Act is a way to get back to life faster from an emergency. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u61	Thank you. It is now Mr Adamec's turn. Before I give him my word, I'll introduce you to an apology. The Member and Prime Minister Babiš apologizes to us for working in Lany. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, co-workers, I'll give it a shot in that gown. So the first positive report of today - the extension of the emergency situation will be. The question is, of course, how long, but I think we all know that this is going to happen in some form. The second positive information I wanted to say, which I perceive as a true democrat, that we are actually beginning to break the laws and regulations, unlike March 12, those that have forbidden us something. That is what I think is a very positive step, and that needs to be remembered. But let me say here some of the things that we, the government, should avoid, because I think that society does not bring anything positive, and in its consequences it is also harmful. The first point I've been interested in since the beginning. I think that for the government, politicians aren't meant to speak in public by experts. Experts are an advisory body, their opinions are valuable, of course no one here is questioning their expertise, but it is up to politicians to manage society and I believe that this government already knows that they are pure politicians and experts in the second row. And I'm saying that because if we let them go, it's gonna be trivial and it's not gonna be a good example for society, because today, when I say it to the public, they got toys in a situation that hasn't been here for many years, it's a professional thing for them, maybe they'll never get to it again, and it's an ideal opportunity to work a little bit of scientific work around here. But society needs clear signals on how to deal with it, what happens next, and politicians have to say it. I don't have anything against any of those epidemiologists, but I think saying things like that we're not going to go abroad for two years, or now a new scream that 200 people in the pool this summer - well, I wonder how we're gonna control it. And with those regulations, it's the same as with the law, as long as we know we can't extort them, it's no use approving them, because those people won't follow it anyway. The next thing I wanted to talk about is the chaoticness and illogicality of interfering with the resolutions, the bans. People need to be sure that what the government issues in its resolution has the logic that it is clear that they do not need to ask questions about how they should practically do so. And some of the things that we're witnessing right now -- by the way, I have to remind you that it's also changing in a few hours -- that's wrong at all. But I have to say, why did the clothing stores open? I'm not some expert, ladies will know how it works in these stores, but how do you want to buy pants, socks maybe still, T-shirt if they don't let you try it on? What's that? Why did we open it? I can only assume - because I think it is about money in the first place, because compensation for damage will then be calculated entirely from other deadlines and from other deadlines. That's the only way I can explain it. This doesn't make sense. This really doesn't make sense. The next thing I don't understand is how people are informed about how some other devices might work, typically, as I said, the pool, the gardens, we'll be sitting on benches in duvets, etc. I think the release really has to be clear, logical, and tell these people how to behave. And there should be pressure on the government to do that, because the worst thing is when we, too, apply these regulations in practice in cities and villages through our crisis crews, security councils, so how many times we don't know how much we can handle it, and that's wrong. About other things. I think we've just come across an interesting problem outside of the emergency, and these are kids, schools, kindergartens. Kindergarten, there was just a recommendation to close it down, most of it closed because they weren't interested at the time, because people at first were afraid to let children go to kindergartens. But today the problem is elsewhere, and we need to talk about it publicly. It needs to be said really hard as it is. Half the parents want to go back to work, work, and they want the kindergarten to work. And the other half, she wants 80 percent, she wants to stay home. Now tell me how we're supposed to handle this. Are we gonna get a petition from those parents that they're worried about children's health when we all know that children are the least endangered group? How we're gonna do that when we've arranged emergency kindergartens -- by the way, they work all the time, those classes for parents' kids named professions, there's never been any complaints about this. Now, take it we're thinking of opening schools voluntarily, but what about the treatment? [[with emphasis]] Will it also be voluntary, who will let the children go to school, have nothing and go to work, or where the children stay at home, will they continue to take 80 percent? These are very dangerous things, because the company needs to start configuring it to return to normal mode, and I don't think these regulations lead to that. That's what needs to be said. Still, you have to think that it's normal to work, take care of your family, not roll around at home on state money and blame it on the problem of being scared and that the situation is advantageous for us. It's really changed. In the beginning, people were really afraid, today it's different. There's a problem here today, and there's something we need to do about it. Furthermore, I must say that the media are not entirely positive about this. I'm not saying all of them, I wouldn't dare here, but looking for a sensation in a pandemic that threatens our society, which has never really been here -- someone compared it to World War II, to the occupation, I don't think it's comparable. So they're just looking for a sensation. They're giving news that I don't think they're calming down society, but they're separating it. And I think they should work here. Because there will be trouble. Here we were worried about the economy, first of all about the health of our citizens, that's okay, then we're worried about the economy, we're worried about democracy. And I'd say we shouldn't be afraid of anything else. We should be afraid that society will be otherwise socially structured after all the measures have been released. See what these kids do at home today when they don't go to school. Some may learn in the morning, but usually they watch TV at night, on the Internet, they go to bed late at night, and they wake up in the morning after 8:00, sometime after 9:00. This is the target? I don't think so. I think we need to get back into normal mode. And we're lucky that the epidemic, her numbers are clearly saying she's dropping. Of course we have to be careful, that's one thing. But on the other hand, we need to work on this. Another thing that's spreading right now, volunteers have fallen. Excellent, I thought, the nation is together, it's working fine. Well, it's gone, and what's happening now? Volunteers de facto end slowly except for exceptions and there is a hard reality and we have an anonymous submission to not tell you, anonymous letters go, people sue, don't want to introduce themselves and act the way they shouldn't behave in a democratic society. [[17.30 hours]] Now, let's take this, we've been talking all this time about putting a whole group at risk, and these are our businessmen. I also said that someone wouldn't want to be a businessman at this time, but just businessmen are a group of people, a part of society that just doesn't benefit society economically, but especially socially, because I can't imagine that this company, when it's over, will just lose the whole segment, the whole segment of that company, as we've been used to so far. So I think that's another problem that we're going to have, and we need to play with it, talk about it, and take it seriously. I would really ask the government, the Minister of Education, now it is beyond that point to consider quickly adjusting the children's return to school, to give us exactly the notes on how children are to return to kindergartens, and we certainly need to do this so that we do not give the conditions that are unacceptable to those children, especially to the smaller ones. I can't imagine a kid wearing a mask all day long, it just doesn't work like that in the collective, it just can't be like that. So I'd like pragmatism, common sense to win. And once again, let's be patient, it's not over, on the other hand, let's do everything we can to make this return as simple as possible, as smooth as possible, and so that we can eliminate all the phenomena that I've been talking about so that society can return to the state that it was before the attack of the COVID-19 pandemic. Maybe it's a bold statement from me, I think that every crisis brings opportunities, but I'd say there are so many problems here that I think that my wish really is a little bit like science fiction. But I wish it would. I wish us all a happy vote, and there will be a time when these votes will be repeated again sometime next time. And I think if we're reasonable, there's nothing we can do but handle the situation well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u63	Thank you and now Mr Gazdík, Mr Klaus will be ready in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u64	Good day, dear colleagues. Let me think about this point, which is to express the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the time of emergency, over some of the statements made by the members of the government, which they have made today in particular. The Minister of Health told us: let's make it to the end. I'd love to know what the end is. According to the government's proposal, it's May 25th. But on May 25th, the pandemic is definitely not going to end, it's definitely not going to end, and it's not going to stop raging with coronavirus, and I'd welcome a plan that's going to be wider. The government is mostly reliant on the measures it has been implementing recently, rather on impressions, although the Minister has used today - and I will quote it here again - he said: the opposition is using impressions. So I'll take a few impressions, and I'll follow up on my honored colleague, Mr. Mayor Adamec, in the field of education. The government has decided to keep the schools closed. But from May 25th, students and students can go to the pool and go to the cinemas. Please, what's the logic? And here I would ask the Deputy Prime Minister, Madam Vice Prime Minister, to please justify this to me. How is it possible that 200 kids can go to the movies, that they can go to the pool, but they can't go to school? That's ridiculous. It's an absurd situation. It's one of the chaos the government's causing. We're missing analysis and data. I believe that after the testing that may be over, we will have more analysis and data, but even in the material that came to this point, there is not much analysis and data. Unfortunately, we have a schedule, but we don't know where the train is going or why it's going. There is another problem in the field of education. On the 25th, children of a lower degree will volunteer to attend school, but the government cannot yet answer the questions of what the school principal or mayor should be doing at a small-class school when he has five classes, two or three teachers will say that, given that he belongs to an endangered group of older people - and I remind you that half of Czech teachers will reach retirement age over the next five years - he will not get in. If there's a need to set up, like, six groups at that school, what's the headmaster supposed to do at that school? I would also like to know the answer to this question. What's the name of the target station, Mr. Secretary, which one do we want to get into? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u65	Thank you and now Mr Klaus is in the debate, Mr Antonín Staněk will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u66	Good day or evening, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to convey the position of the Tricolore and of the non-attached Members. We're not going to support an extension of the emergency, and one of the big reasons is that I've made a survey of people, or I've asked them what they'd like, how long would they want to prolong the situation? Some said until May 25 as government, some said immediately cancel, some said two weeks, some said a week, some said until they retired, some said forever, some said for a year. And I have a feeling that this is exactly how the Czech government thinks when it gives the different dates, because last week there were opinions that the emergency will end on April 30th, and now the House has been sitting here for several hours to possibly extend it. I'd like to ask the Minister of Health what's going to happen on May 25th so that the emergency situation should be over by now? Because when we look at the numbers, for example, in the last week there were about 600 people newly infected, or some every day about a hundred, something less. The last time the epidemic started and there were 600 people infected, you were shutting down the entire country. So what else happened? Are these otherwise ill people, are they less dangerous, or are you more in control? So it's clear here that you have no idea where you're going, what's going to be the end of the epidemic, and just for some reason, probably because of that court decision, you're trying to move it now. This, of course, happens hand in hand with the fact that you always forget to compliment yourself on how best we deal with pandemics from all countries slowly. I must say, if I look only at Slovakia, they have about three times less infected and people with serious problems or dead people. So I would understand if you came up with a clear plan that you need ten more days to coordinate the army, the health services, the doctors, the volunteers and others who are going to do the so-called "smart quarantine," or they're just going to do that when a sick person shows up, that the medical and state authorities are going to hit very quickly so that the disease doesn't spread. I'd understand, I'd be willing to give her 14 days to do it, or just how much the government would need to do it. But if all she cares about is the galimaty, where you're fighting each other's departments here, the Social Democrats with YES, everyone's saying something different, it's like a fight that sucks. There may still be forty percent of people who are very concerned about health, so for some political reasons, you want to compromise by extending it by three weeks, but the economy is actually dying in the meantime. We will launch such a campaign tomorrow because we are based on the fact that the government will not help businessmen and the Czech economy in any way and that it must be done by the citizens themselves. This means those who still have money - such as MEPs - should spend more on Czech subjects. But I'd take a turn. What I did in the flood and things like this, I'm not going to tell you as some of my colleagues, and I'm going to end up saying that we're not going to support the extension of the emergency situation, but on our few members, divided by two, it's obviously not worth the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u67	Thank you and now Mr Staněk, Mr Výborný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u68	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I do not speak often, honourable Members, Members of the Government and Members of the Government, fellow citizens, so I carefully consider what I say because I think it is sometimes good to speak and sometimes it is better to keep quiet. There's a lot of wise things here, there's a lot of wise advice. For example, it doesn't bother me that the secretary is looking at her phone because I know that women can handle several activities at once, unlike us men. [[Schiller]] [[Let's hear it in the hall. Screaming from the diaper: Excellent!]] I bow to them for that. But I'm talking now, and I'm looking at my cell phone, and today at 3:10 p.m. on the news. cz an article about the growing number of children with unknown diseases in Britain has appeared. And no one knows what it is, where it came from, where it will continue. I would just like to say that the fundamental difference that we have here at the moment between the floods and the pandemic contagion is that the enemy, unlike the floods, which, of course, we do not see at some point, but we can still imagine it more specifically than the virus that surrounds us somewhere, is quite large. I, with great hope, followed the period when the opposition at the beginning of the crisis asked really substantive questions and subsequently supported the government of the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, this period ended very quickly. It ended when the opposition found that the government's progress was positive and that the public was also tolerant of its mistakes. After all, this is our first time in this situation. And it has already been said that anyone who does something will, of course, ruin something. By the way, in this context, I consider the Prime Minister's key words to have purchases examined and investigated by the Supreme Audit Office in an emergency, fall to whom, and I think that's all right. It is a clear promise and I believe that this promise will come true. But back to the matter. Of course, in the rapid succession of pandemics, there are many opportunities to make a mistake, and that is fully recognized by reasonable and rational people. That is why they also appreciate the government's actions and the fact that they sometimes make mistakes and are willing to forgive it. But this trust also means greater electoral preferences for the government. So the opposition, out of fear, returned to its total war. We've been meeting here for several times, and I'm afraid it's getting worse. The more happy people are that we have avoided crowded hospitals and that winter stadiums that have been prepared for those who would not survive the plague have not been used, the more a wave of hatred rises against those who have secured it. What do you think it's calculated with? That the louder the noise, the better the chance of getting into the media? But isn't there another way to get there? Is none of the opposition capable of seeing an opportunity in a crisis? It sounds like a crisis is an opportunity. But it's not enough to say it, it's not enough just to have it in your mouth, it needs to be put into practice. Please postpone your total opposition negation. It's not my words, it's Petr Holec's commentator's words. And try to be positive about the crisis. It's like you're in charge of the state and you're responsible for suggestions and decisions. You want to help this country? Then stop with the calculated attack. Yes, it'll get you into the media more often, but you won't be positive. On the other hand, make peace for a time, not just in words, but in action. At least be a little magnanimous and pragmatic together. And I think the citizens will appreciate it. I admit that in today's speeches of the opposition, there were also material, constructive, incentives. In particular, I must say that this was the speech of the Members of Parliament and of the Members, and I very much appreciate it. And I have to say that if I were to comment on the individual statements, I would find the positive elements in many. For example, I very much expect to talk about the financial evaluation of the Army of the Czech Republic. Because not only policemen, not only firefighters, not just nurses, all deserve an appropriate bonus or award as well as financial. It's an army, too. I appreciate all the proposals made here by Mr Juránek, who spoke about his experiences around the flood, what Mr Birke was talking about, about what others were talking about. But it is a pity that most of these positive, constructive impulses have fallen into the waves of the strategy of total war against this government and Anti-Babiš. Shame about these suggestions, because they really were material and beneficial. Madam, honourable Members, I appreciate the rational proposal to prolong the emergency situation that has been made here until next week. I think it was a suggestion that negotiations on further possible prolongation of the emergency situation should fall within the period of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which interrupted its last meeting. But the suspended meeting should discuss many necessary laws, including the Food Law, the dual quality of food, the water, the fight against drought, the fight against barkworm. Unfortunately, I fear that in the spirit of the former, we will again only listen to the monotonous jeremies of the opposition, what the government is doing wrong before we move on. It's just obvious. With the salámový method after a week, ten days, twelve days of emergency extension, we always get to the same topic - repeat what was wrong, repeat what should be, re-enter the media. It's inefficient and stupid. Of course, many citizens, especially entrepreneurs, are opposed to the extension of the measures. But I also get the voices of officials, employees in the service, teachers, pensioners who demand to continue the emergency. They believe that returning to normal should be gradual and consistent with epidemiological results. I understand that it upsets these people when they learn how some COVID-19 diseases are downgraded and still compared to the common flu and that they don't want to hear that in countries where they didn't intervene in time, like New York, mortality in a few weeks has exceeded the mortality rate of influenza throughout the season. Yes, they also say that wearing masks upsets them, but they respect it. And as long as the epidemiologists say it's a necessary protection, they're ready to endure it. They're more terrified by the idea of a second wave hitting us, and they're saying, if we lasted that long, let's wait a little longer. But I have not heard of these people from the mouth of any previous speakers. I would therefore like to quote here the words of British Prime Minister Johnson, who was also first opposed, but after he became ill, he said: "I ask you to control your impatience. " I also ask you, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable opposition, your entrepreneurs and lawyers, to control your impatience and your hatred for a while and to take into account, if not pragmatic reason, at least that your words are being followed by several million citizens in this country. [[17.50 hours]] The government has already put forward a plan to slowly relax restrictive measures, so if we are serious about the fact that we want to protect our citizens and do not want to use the situation only for our own party self-representation, please support the Government's request to extend the emergency situation until 25 May 2020. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u69	Thank you. And now with the priority rights of Mr Jurečka - I believe that this is the second act, and then Vice-President Fiala - also the second act. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u70	Thank you. I will take the liberty of responding here to Mr Staněk's colleague. He said that none of the previous speakers remembered those groups of people who are worried about their lives, are in danger, are among the endangered groups. I'm sorry he didn't hear my speech before lunch, because I was talking about them at the opening of my show, that I mentioned them. I think that almost all of us in our families would find these people, our parents, our grandparents, who we too - not just themselves, but also we are worried about. But I will allow myself to follow up on one thing that he spoke of in his speech, and that was also a question of drought and this topic. I also mentioned them at the end when I said that it was important not to leave people dry, not only in terms of the health part, or the existential part, their income, their housing, their homes, their roofs, but also really in terms of the landscape, etc. And I have to say, I'm a little sorry that when we split up here and edited the parameters of the state budget, and the Ministry of Agriculture got extra money, unfortunately, the money doesn't go to support, for example, the land changes that solve the landscape precisely so that the landscape can contain more water, so that there can be drawways, marshlands, ponds, retention tanks, etc. I'm afraid that didn't work. And I hope that this year, the government could go ahead and fix these things, at least three to four billion crowns, which could go into land changes, would help significantly in our landscape. Today we can read on servers that at this very moment we have the most drought in our impact over the last 500 years. And I, as a farmer with great concern, look to what the harvest will be not only for us but also for Europe, and that is why I called on both the Minister and the Government to invent those impacts and the forecast on those yields, so that we can also see whether we will be food-sufficient this year and next year, if there are enough commodities for us and for the whole EU and for these people. These are really things that are starting to have serious contextual effects. However, in order not to be here again, I will now also use this space - I mentioned here this morning the motion for an accompanying resolution, which I will also want us to discuss and vote on it today. So I'm going to load it here now. This resolution concerns an appeal that, regardless of how many days we will extend the emergency during the month of May, so that, from 1 May and in an emergency, the government will comply with the Public Procurement Act when purchasing any medical protective equipment. Thus, the resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government to carry out any purchase of protective equipment in accordance with the Public Procurement Act from 1 May, even in an extended state of emergency.' This is why, as a response to those discussed purchases, especially at the Ministry of Health, where we can monitor the fundamental differences in half price in the purchase of health protection aids between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Health here in the media space. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u71	Thank you. I would then ask you to deliver this to me in writing, the resolution. And now with priority rights, Vice-President Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to Mr Staněk's speech, which I am now addressing through you. Ambassador, I don't know what opposition you're talking about. And if you include in this opposition... [[A voice from the diaper.]] I don't understand what you're talking about. But if you include the Civil Democratic Party in this opposition, as you described it, then let me remind you that we are not criticizing the government on a flat-rate basis, but specifically. We do not criticize the government because we suffer from hatred of someone. That's a total stranger to us. We criticize the government for what it doesn't do and what it does wrong. And we have a right to this criticism. But besides that, it's not just a criticism. We have also put forward and, at the beginning, put forward proposals on how the economic situation in the Czech Republic should be addressed. How and who should be helped. We have presented two economic packages. And if I have noticed, and you might also notice it through Mr President, the measures that the government has taken have all been formulated first, or the vast majority, to be fair, by us. This is a constructive approach to tackling the economic crisis and the effects that the pandemic has. And I dare say - and now I am not just speaking for the Civil Democratic Party - I dare say that few governments have such constructive opposition. And in the political history of Czech politics, there was perhaps not yet such a constructive and understanding opposition. We supported the key measures taken by the government. And people saw it, and people see it. But that doesn't mean that we're going to look uncritically at the confusion and chaos that the government's been creating lately, and that we're going to be shouted at when we hear from each other. And what matters most, and what actually made me come out here right now, is the idea that if we criticize the government, we do it out of some entertainment, personal bias, envy that someone has some preferences, hatred for certain people in the government, etc. It's completely nonsense. Mr. Staněk, we're talking about the people who voted for us. We're talking about people who trust us, not you. We're talking about people who are confused by the measures the government is taking. We're talking about people who just didn't get the promised help of 1.2 trillion crowns, didn't even get the thousands. We're talking about people here who are worried about their freedom. We're talking here for people who don't understand why they can't go abroad. We're talking here for people who understand the necessity of certain measures, but they don't understand the chaos that accompany them. We're talking about people who don't know when this thing's gonna open up, how it's gonna be with schools for their kids, how we're gonna go back to normal life. These are the people we're talking about! We have the right to speak for these people. We're not gonna put these people behind us. And for them we will speak here whether you like it or not!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u73	Thank you. And now we will return to the general debate and Mr Výborný is signed in, Mr Martínek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u74	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I don't see anyone else here from the government. I am listening carefully today to all the speeches as Prime Minister, then Ministers, fellow Members, Members, and unfortunately I cannot do this. I also have to go back to my colleague Staněk's performance because it really upset me and I consider it an outrage. If we were not on Parliament's soil, I would advise you not to say anything. Of course, here you have a completely free right to say what you want. But wonder for the world, Mr Staněk, through the Vice-President, that neither Prime Minister Babiš nor Minister of Health is responsible for the current coronavirus crisis, but wonder for the world, it is not even the President of one opposition party, Marian Jurečka or ODS Chairman Petr Fiala. It's not even the opposition's fault. Yes. In the beginning, we weren't ready for it. I think the first reactions, too, from the opposition, were really about the one rope. And I was looking at it now, so in those two months we have supported 26 laws, measures for the benefit of the citizens of the Czech Republic. And I am sorry that the dozens of amendments that we wanted to make things better in some way, so that it would actually be effective and to help entrepreneurs, businessmen, citizens, families, parents that the opposition rejected en bloc. [[Coalition]] [[18.00 hours]] Yes, there is one exception that is appropriate to mention, and that is lex covid justice, because Minister Benešová has agreed to this exactly as I would consider reasonable for the other measures, just where we agreed that there is a need to correct the government's draft in some way, supplement it, modify it in the area of execution, for example, so we did it here in the House and then we approved it together. So talking about some opposition wars seems like a real nonsense to me. I would just like to return briefly to comment on today's emergency extension request. Even I and KDU-ČSL are aware that there are actually some measures that could no longer be extended without emergency mode. There's legal expertise. On the other hand, what I really needed when I took possession of that House document 5058 is a justification. I think it's been Achillův' heel since the beginning of all the health department measures, and we're criticizing it, I think it's a right that they're not properly justified. In the end, the court said so, but that's not the point. We have said from the beginning that we need to justify these measures to citizens in a different way than simply: we have a crisis, there is a COVID-19, and we have to. It has to do with the view of the past, but also in the future towards the timetable. It is also a question of data disclosure. The Minister of Health here said that the data is three times a day and three times a week is a press conference and so on, and so on. Yes, it's all true. But then there's data that even economic experts have to work with. And I would like to hear from the Minister's reasons why his deputy Mr Prymula, in this way, would say that he rudely fired Mr Münich from the hearing. I wonder. I think it's a shame, because if we're talking about this one ship, this cooperation between us, I don't think this is quite the example that would be worthy of following. KDU-ČSL has already made it clear here and in the previous speeches that we, in view of the fact that certain measures, if they are to remain in force after 30 April 2020, must be under the emergency law regime, so we are ready to discuss the extension. But we don't see a single reason why we should be giving some Bianca a check for 25 days. We believe that the time until next week, because the House is meeting properly throughout the week, and we can certainly go back to that next week, for example, if it is extended until 10 May 2020, we can get back to that. And if the government once again has relevant reasons for prolonging that emergency situation, then of course this extension can happen. And let me stop at the very end of the topic of education, because I see it as a very problematic segment of public life with the votes that I have from my families, primary schools, secondary schools. And the measures are not coming from the Ministry of Education workshop, which is why I am glad that the Minister of Health is sitting here, and I would like him to respond to these things, because the way those two months are planned by the end of the school year, I find that very unfortunate. And I understand that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports can hardly cope with this. There will be some methodological guidelines today, for example, for the assessment of primary school pupils. I see it as very complicated myself. But let me give you a model example. Take a teacher who teaches at second grade elementary school. May 26, 2020 will have to go to school. He'll be there in the morning with a group of students who will be there because they will have the opportunity. In the afternoon, as is said so far, unfortunately, it should be somewhat chaotic in my opinion, so the afternoon should educate those pupils who stayed at home because they had the right to do so. And then she's got two kids at home, a seventh grader and a ninth grader who she should be working with as a mom, as a home teacher. So how is he supposed to somehow have the energy and the strength to handle this? Unfortunately, I don't think these things are entirely premeditated in this area, and maybe it would be good - I understand, the minister doesn't experience it, I have three kids at home, so I know what it's like with home school. Maybe try to evaluate these things in some way. After all, the measures that were being implemented, and now I can't remember the date when schools closed, but it was before the emergency, so it was under the Ministry of Health regime, and of course at the beginning of March, because it was some 8th to 10th March, no one could know, neither the Minister, nor the Government, nor Parliament here could know what the situation would be at the beginning of May. We had no idea, either, when we adopted the first law on the second half of the school year, on 23 March the government discussed it. That's over a month ago. I understand, at the time, the forecasts were very careful, it was assumed that there would be no more than 7,000 infected, but there might be tens of thousands, the situation would be dramatic and the Republic would be completely paralyzed. It turns out, thank God it's not. I would really like to think that even these things and these developments - and I'm not an epidemiologist, I don't want to get into these things in any way professionally, but I think that we need to take into account the common sense and really what these families live in, because the question is whether, after 25 May, in this situation, in which we are and when we do not see a second wave or something like this at the moment, if these measures are to maintain in the state where it causes the problems that I am talking about. Not to mention, for example, the two dates of the high school entrance exams, which are now laid down by law, but of course, we've been there in the last month, some legal regulations can be done in the mode of hours, not even days. And again, on March 23rd, we could not know what the state would be at the end of April, or at the beginning of May. So let's get back to this stuff. I would ask very much, in cooperation with the Minister of Education, that the things that affect the last two months of running mainly primary schools - I think that secondary schools at the moment are not a topic that we would necessarily have to open, because there will be an uprising in the course of admission proceedings, there will be final exams. And yet those high school students are already in such a state that they should be able to handle the demands the school puts on them with their own responsibility. But I see the problem with the elementary schools both on the parents' side and on the teachers' side. Let me give you a specific example. If the teacher herself perceives the quality of the online education, so she says, I'll only be in that school... or there'll even be assistants, or there'll be groomsmen there, and I'll only be keeping an eye on the students. Why should parents send on May 25th, why should I, as a parent, send children to school to be watched over? That doesn't make any sense. So let's evaluate these things, and I think that in this sense more courage to relax would certainly be appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u75	Thank you. The President Kalousek is now registered with priority rights. Then, as the last one, Mr Martínek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u76	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly just make two comments. Note one to the regret that we are not constructive opposition and we are not pulling together. I do not want to list all the constructive proposals you have taken off the table, and then you have presented them as your own. Thank God you brought them in, we were happy to support them. I don't want to list all the helpfulness to the extraordinary meetings, to the programme agreements, to the agreements that only 102 of us will be here, to the agreements to everything. I've been a member of two governments, but I don't remember a opposition as helpful as we are today. So saying that we are opposition at all costs, even to project emotional concepts like hate into it, is really either extremely unfair or extremely unlearned. In any case, we should probably figure out what it means to pull together. If one of you feels that pulling together in a situation like this is that one is in charge and everyone else is holding their mouths and squeezing and daring not to say a word, it is not pulling together in a democratic country. [[18.10 hours]] Pulling together is an effort to find a common way out and a common consensus. And that doesn't just concern the opposition right now. You never tried to find a deal with us. You guys were just rolling us around. You guys always figured you had enough votes to do it, so you beat us up here. But that's not just about the opposition. This concerns your social partners, this concerns employees' representatives and employers in those fields which are directly affected by your actions. And you didn't discuss it with them either. And I find that completely repulsive, completely unacceptable. Then how do you want people to pull you together if you don't even talk to them about it? Again, I was a member of two central-right governments. I'm not saying that participation in tripartite was one of the brightest moments of my life, and it happened to me very often that I just didn't agree on the tripartite. But it never occurred to me for a second that I would try not to do so on such important questions that affect employees and employers. That the Tripartite Bureau would not meet, that it would not discuss the negotiation timetable, that it would not discuss the effects of individual measures on employees and employers. [[Very strongly, emotionally:]] Just your arrogance that you didn't do this with! And now I am not angry with your arrogance against the opposition, now I am opposed to your arrogance against the social partners, the unions and the business unions! They learned it from the newspaper and the TV just like we did. It's not government. That's not pulling together. That's amateurism. It's arrogance. And that's no way to achieve a social consensus. So let's just get this straight. If you think it's listening to one leader throwing a rope on the floor at the end of which there's a noose for a businessman, we're not pulling this rope! If you want to agree on a common ground, we're ready. And I believe that even those social partners are prepared to talk to us as opposeds now that you don't want to talk to them anymore. But they're incredibly important to the whole social consensus. That's the first point. The second comment on the vote to extend the emergency situation. I would like to remind you that there have been some fundamental questions that have not been answered. The very important question is on which data the government decides. Data you don't want to give to the Chamber of Deputies, data you don't want to give to the public, but data you don't even want to give to cooperating experts, and the Deputy Minister of Health, a cooperating expert, one of the most honest analytical brains I've known in recent years in the Czech academic sphere, simply throws out of expert negotiations simply because he has inappropriate questions. So what data do you want to decide on? Or on what data do you decide? I'd hate to simulate the legendary actress of not-actor Milada Ježková right now, but it's almost convenient. Do you have data, please, nicely? And could I see them? And if you don't have them, and if you don't want to tell us, then why do you want us to share your decision based on zero data? And if you have them, tell us. And if you don't want to tell us, then tell us why you can't tell us, and explain why you don't want to tell them to the cooperating experts. Because if you just keep quiet about it, and your officials are kicking the top scientists and experts out of the negotiations when they happen to ask for data, then how do you want us to trust you? So at least there was no answer to the data. Then the fundamental question was how does it work, or rather doesn't work a smart quarantine. Here, a month ago, there was a prediction about how a smart quarantine was going to work three weeks ago. We all feel it's not working, but maybe I feel it's wrong. But we didn't get disproved. Then there was a lot of promise about how intense the testing will be at this point. That number of tests absolutely doesn't match what you promised three weeks ago. Three weeks ago, you said that at a time that roughly corresponds to this moment when we're here, the key to another fight against pandemics is a smart quarantine and this number of tests. Smart quarantine doesn't work, the number of tests is less than half what you promised. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] I wouldn't have gotten off the phone right now, but in this discussion, there were about 50 questions... About 50 questions have been asked about this problem, and members of the government are sitting here like hell, and one of them hasn't answered it! You keep saying, pull together. But we're not gonna tell you the data, we're not gonna tell you why the smart quarantine isn't working, and we're not gonna talk to you about why the number of tests isn't what we promised you three weeks ago. Based on this arrogance against us as opposition, based on this arrogance against the social partners, unions, employers' unions, the Chamber of Commerce, based on this arrogance against completely substantive questions, for testing, smart quarantine, you don't want to answer any of this and you have one mantra: shut up and pull together! We're not pulling this kind of rope with you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u77	Thank you. So now, Mr Martínek in the general debate, Mr Třešňák will be prepared. Please. And please be quiet in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not spread propaganda like some government MPs, and I will actually address the problem. Why am I having trouble supporting the government's proposal? This is a lack of support for Czech manufacturers of protective equipment and other companies by the government. Support Czech producers, support Czech economy, support local self-sufficiency within the EU. Since March, Prusa Research has been printing facial shields as well as many volunteers, including pirates throughout the Republic. She invested hundreds of thousands of crowns in the injection mold at her own expense and with the protection shields giving away free of charge. Other companies include Workswell, a thermocam manufacturer who can measure temperature without having to stop and make queues. There are also projects such as CoroVent, where they have completed the development and started the production of pulmonary fans or CovMask, who have already produced tens of thousands of protective masks for paramedics, to which many of us contributed. I do not understand investment incentives for foreign companies when we have hundreds of Czech producers who have adapted to the current difficult situation, invest in expanding production and are now waiting for state orders of protective equipment. [[18.20 hours]] On me prepared and 30 March published list of Czech manufacturers of protective equipment is over 200 Czech producers. I am pleased that this review has helped some authorities to find a company where they could purchase protective equipment for their employees, health workers or citizens. The quality of Czech manufacturers, thanks to the use of nanoairs, is often significantly above the protective efficiency and quality of products imported expensively, for example, from China. The Czech Republic is a superpower in nanotechnologies that demonstrate a high level of protection. As a member of the Liberec Region, I am happy to see the achievements of academics such as the Technical University of Liberec, volunteers and companies that now produce quality protective equipment at affordable prices. The association of nanotech industry offers a helping hand to the state, but Minister Havlíček has not yet responded to the letter sent. Therefore, I would like to quote from their press release: "We were very unpleasantly surprised to learn on Wednesday, April 8, 2020 about the declared government guarantee agreement that the Czech state would buy 50 million FFP2-class respirators within 18 months from Honeywell, which has no respirator plant in the Czech Republic and is still considering building it. The guaranteed collection should begin in four months, which Honeywell should use to build the plant. The government also offers in its proposal to Honeywell the possibility of preserving part of the spare production capacity for crisis situations. In the event of a new wave of epidemic, these machines could operate and expand production. The cost of acquiring and preserving this Honeywell reserve capacity in working order would be borne by the State. During the emergency period, Czech respirator manufacturers repeatedly asked governments about the possibility of guaranteeing the collection of their respirators so that they could invest in new employees and machinery. Each time they got a negative answer. Despite the refusal of the Czech Government, Czech nanotech producers invested tens of millions of crowns in new automatic lines and sophisticated machines for the production of nanowire filters in respirators and drapes of the highest class of protection. If the government had publicly announced a specific quantitative need for respirators, whose collection is ready to guarantee, and announced a public competition for this guaranteed withdrawal, Czech producers would have applied for this competition. They are already increasing their production capacity and, in the case of fair competition, are ready to invest in a further increase in production. On 30 March 2020, we publicly declared that effective medical aids have become strategic products that can effectively protect the health and lives of our citizens and, as a result, can become very beneficial for maintaining the smooth functioning of the Czech economy in times of crisis. For these products it is necessary to establish the basic condition of production in the territory of the Czech Republic in tenders. We place emphasis on maintaining competition for these strategic products. The FFP2 respirators are not intended for paramedics and paramedics. On March 20, 2020, the government welcomed the first shipment of masks and respirators of the FFP2 from China at the Russian airport. Journalists asked government members why they bought FFP2 respirators and why they didn't buy high-class FFP3 respirators, which also capture viruses. They got the answer that the FFP3 respirators weren't available. But it is not clear why the government is planning to purchase 50 million lower-class respirators for the next two years." I would therefore like to ask whether Minister Havlíček has already responded to the letter from Czech producers. Finally, I would like to thank all the volunteers, health professionals and other citizens of the Czech Republic who are helping in this difficult situation. I would also like to ask that all who can use the eRousek application, which has also been developed by pirates, to help with the development of a clever quarantine that will help minimize the impact on the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u79	Thank you and it is now the last time in the debate that Mr Třešňák is here, so I ask him to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u80	Good evening, Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues. In fact, we hear from the government how the Republic manages this crisis, and it understands, above all, the hygienic and health dimension. And if we really want to talk about managing the crisis, then we certainly need to take into account the real ratio between the impact on the health of the population and the rest of the economy and the functioning of society. And while none of us can predict the effects, the final benchmark will show the real success of how we dealt with the crisis. However, in this general part, allow me to respond briefly to Mr Staněk's output through Mr President, because he was talking about a total war, blood, I do not know what else he mentioned, almost so much as a Biľakov dictum, and he almost forgot how many impulses for individual measures, especially economic ones, came out of the opposition benches, whether direct communication with ministries or committees. And as for the House's vote, even here I could count dozens of high-quality amendments from opposition parties over the last month, whether their final fate was different, and most of them, for example, have been crushed by a government coalition. And while you have also commended a few opposition speeches and suggestions, you added that they have fallen into the anti-babish rush. Personally, I don't recall hearing any anti-Babish rhetoric here today or anybody doing that here today. Moreover, it was also said from Mr. Staněk's mouth that we should control our impatience. All I can say is that we are patient, learned, even understanding, and it would be richly enough if the government coalition presented valid information and listened better, and perhaps it would not be necessary to be here today to speak this long and discuss the same subject again. However, after this short branch, allow me to mention a completely different topic that I originally wanted to talk about, which has been said only marginally here today, and it concerns an area in which our Republic has really great potential. In the Czech Republic, there are many capable teams of scientists, technicians, IT specialists who can implement high-quality technological solutions that could just facilitate the operation of the country in such crises. I will follow up on the speech of my previous speaker Tomáš Martínek, not only the use of nanomaterials or the extremely fast start of production of a new type of artificial pulmonary ventilation, but especially applications for smartphones. While many Asian countries, whether Taiwan, Korea and others, have been betting on such solutions - a smart quarantine and eRoušek application have slowly started in our country, there I must appreciate the cooperation of the Ministry of Health with the team that developed the eRoušek application, but that is the end of it. In fact, on 30 March, we and colleague Kolářík called on the Minister of the Interior Hamáček to deploy such smart solutions, for example, for the control of Pendlers, and not only this, deployment would be possible for other groups of residents who are in risk groups and would appreciate such solutions that would, for example, assess risk and alert them in time. And not just that. Some paper solutions from other areas, such as health care, seem absurd to me. Let me give you an example. A form about your condition in connection with the coronavirus crisis, which you fill out in the morning in one ambulance and in the afternoon you come to another ambulance and fill out the paper form again. So I moved from the department of the interior to health care, which is why yesterday I also sent a written interview to the minister. Still, I think at least in part it could be answered today. The questions were as follows: Technological solutions are not only developed by Czech companies. We are part of the EU and I wonder how such actions are coordinated throughout the EU and possibly worldwide, because multinational companies such as Google or Apple have also expressed themselves as developing an interface for the fight against coronavirus. However, the question is: Does anyone from the Czech Republic communicate with them? Or what are - also mentioned by President Kalousek in his speech - the implications, or what are the experience of smart quarantine or application of eRoušek and similar application by Mapy.cz or whether the Ministry is considering other functions of application or other technological solutions that could make life easier for citizens in pandemic times and lessen the impact of the very restrictive measures on normal life. Well, that's it for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u81	Thank you. President Stanjura has now applied with priority rights. [[He doesn't want to use it.]] So, no priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I have written a speech. It's an A5, it won't be too long, but I have a few notes to make about what's going on here all day, and a few questions I'd like to hear the answer to. [[say]] And I think those are questions that haven't been answered today. Some certainly did, but some certainly did not. Very often we hear from government members how great they are, how best we are in Europe, in the world and so on. I'd like to say that our citizens are great. If we handle this like the Czech Republic, it is thanks to the excellent approach of the overwhelming majority of our citizens. And if you look at the end of the House document, which I will eventually try to comment on or analyse in some way, and you will look at the number of people infected by the professions, except those who are now and daily mentioned well on the first pages - doctors, nurses, other medical personnel, firemen, police officers, soldiers, which are logically all in the front line - there is also a large group of drivers among those infected. They're a little forgotten. These are people, whether truck drivers, had an exception from the beginning in order to carry out their activities, marked in a way they increased orders in e-shops at this time and someone has to deliver the goods both to the shops, factories and citizens, and it is evident that among them there is a logically large number of infected. We are meeting today because the government has acted illegally, and in that we are really unique, at least in democratic states. And that's the second time. There was a bit of information that the government had illegally abolished the complementary Senate election at Teplice, which was said by the Supreme Court. Last week, the Prague Municipal Court ruled that the government acted illegally. This is not a dispute over legal interpretation. It's not what the members of the government say, the court actually said we did it right, just under another law. That was an illegal government procedure. In doing so, the government began well and within the framework of the legislation in force. The government has declared its restrictive measures, and now I don't want to argue about the content of the restrictive measures, under emergency law. Then on March 23rd, she changed her approach for me for unknown reasons, and that was the lawlessness. My question is, who invented it? The transition from legal to illegal? The government has taken note of some of the Ministry of Health's material. I understand that. But the material had to be processed! Someone had to come up with an idea: Let's leave the crisis situation and let's act in another mode. Who was that? I'd really like to know. And what was the reason? I remember from those days when Minister Schillerová said that maybe it was the damage and that the damage would not be and that the state would go bankrupt. [[unintelligible]] I think maybe that was a reason, and maybe not. I would like to ask what was the fate of the original government resolutions that the government adopted legislatively correctly under the crisis law. The government canceled them? I don't know who's gonna answer me. Has it been canceled? Can I get the numbers of the resolutions that the government canceled? To take note of the medical minister's material? If so, who suggested to the government to abolish the measures taken under the crisis law? Or she didn't cancel them, and she's actually paying in parallel? The government's undisturbed resolution may apply. After all, the Ministry of Health cannot in any way replace the Government's resolution. That's not possible. Minister of Health, by the way, professional lawyer, unless I'm wrong - not by profession, by education I'm sorry, by profession you're a minister, I'm sorry, Minister, that was not intentional - so he says: This is a different legal approach. No, that was an illegal act! As we compare ourselves with those European countries, Minister for Health, do you know another European democratic state, where the court has already twice stated that the government has acted illegally these days and weeks? I'm sure we're the first to do this. But it's not entirely joyful, and we're not happy about it. We were criticizing, remember, the decision. Even then, many of us considered it a legal trick. Because you've never properly explained why you've gone from the legal state, as it turns out, to the final decision of the court, to the illegal state. So explain it to us today, Minister of Health! Did you invent this? Or your team? Or the Government Legislative Council? Or the Justice Department? The Ministry of the Interior, according to the Minister of the Interior, has been opposed from the outset. I guess they didn't invent it for you. Someone, and I've been a minister for a while, has to bring the material to the government, he won't fall from the sky. Just by meeting the ministers, and suddenly there's stuff on their desk that no one's checking in tonight. So I would ask for the answer, who invented it, who brought it on the government, what happened to the original resolutions, and what was the real reason for this legal loophole, which didn't work out anyway. The Minister of Health said in his speech: Someone proposes seven days, someone proposes ten days, now the Communists have proposed 17 days - you have no professional reasons for this, they are just unprofessional proposals. That's what you said, Minister. I suppose you won't vote for those 17 days if it's unprofessional, too. So this is House Document No 5058 - Request of the Government of the Czech Republic to extend the emergency situation. [[He's commenting on the document.]] Where are the arguments? There's no such thing. There's a government resolution. Then three sides as if an introduction. The first page is exactly the same as in the last request, logically, when it was declared, by which resolution and so on, then it kind of hits the court that you don't quite agree with it, but what you have to do. Then the datový and Information Base for the COVID pandemic is probably the material of the UHIS, or I don't know whose it is, where are the old data that each Member could find ahead. Old data. It's okay that they're here, I'm sure it's okay, it's in one place. From the available data it can be concluded that no negative influence of Easter has yet occurred. The late effect cannot be ruled out in the following period. Another slide, the whole page. One out of 38. Is it likely that the late Easter effect will manifest itself? Answer: Rather, it does not. Let's remember those strong statements by the members of the government who actually reprimanded our citizens about what's happening on Good Friday and Easter Saturday. You too, Minister, were not the only one. That's weird, look, we've given a little bit of options, we've opened up those hobbies, look at those irresponsible citizens! Pull up the paper, it's 14 days old, with your quotes. How you whispered to the citizens! The small shops were closed the whole time. Were you at the hobby market to see, Mr. Secretary? Did you see those people over there? Did everyone really keep two meters apart there? That's impossible! Yes, at the register, yes, they had the dots. But by the counters, by the shelves? Today and every day at every hypermarket, you can't keep it. I don't blame these people, I can't! What if both of them are suddenly going to choose a specific tea? Do you really think these people are waiting two meters for that one to take the tea to get there? Practice and life is completely different than what you're telling us here. So, despite the karate speeches after Easter, it turns out nothing happened. The numbers are registering it. Let's move on with the material. Now we have tests that, as some previous speakers have said, are far from nearing the reported 10,000 a day or 20,000 a day. And I don't know why. The question is: why? You misjudged the number, the 10 and 20 grand a day? Are we unable to secure it? Maybe it is. But the information isn't in the material! If you wrote: We wanted 10,000, it turned out, for example, that the capacity of laboratories in the Czech Republic does not allow this. I can understand that. There's not a word about it. Now we have another model, model, model, and the model ends when? April 30th, when the emergency has been approved so far. Not even a slide since May 1st! You have the courage, Minister of Health, to pester the opposition that it does not have expert arguments for a shorter period of emergency. You may have them, but you've kept them from us. There's nothing there. [[18.40 hours]] According to information from the members of the government that I complained so much that the material was crappy, so they told me, yeah, that was going to be health care. That's why I'm talking to you, Minister. [[He's turning to Minister Vojtěch.]] I didn't know it was going to be the health department until your colleagues from the government told me. So the material is completely miserable. All predictions end on 30 April. What do you have here on May 25th? Nothing! Nothing at all. The last page is the release schedule. Yes, this is May 25th. And at first glance, we could say very well, we have a plan. And if you look at it, it's probably logical that it can't be completely enumerated that it's not everything, but it should have ambition for everything. So last Monday, weddings could have taken place in ten people under special hygiene conditions. That doesn't change until May 25. That means a wedding to ten people. And as your deputy said, the photographer doesn't count, so the photographer's eleven. At the same time, from yesterday, there have been services of up to 15 people. Let's imagine a church wedding. How many can there be if this Mass is part of the ceremony, how many people can there be? Ten by decision of April 20, or fifteen by decision of April 27? We don't know. You may know, but you didn't tell us. Restaurants, pubs, buffets can be opened from 11 May with the sale through the window in the outdoor gardens. I promised the Opava operators of these restaurants I'd ask. Some have a garden in front of the restaurant and some have a garden behind the restaurant. And they don't know. They can open up, can't they? Today some lady on your team, I don't know which, I'm sorry, she said, we're thinking about it, we'll announce it four days in advance. May 7th, or May 8th. It's not normal. So tell me, Mr. Health Minister, what difference does it make whether I have a garden before or after? Guests can use the restaurant's bathroom, or we'll have a Toi Toi Square or another company, so I don't promote one. Let's get those portable toilets in there, like it's a building? What kind of logic is that? Through the window, but without service. That means everyone's gonna go to the front of that window. But if they can use the bathroom, you just don't write that anymore. Hairdressing, hairdressing, pedicures, manicures and so on from 11 May. No one knows what regime. Do these chairs have to be two meters apart? Or do I only require one chair? Or what's it gonna be? That's not a plan. We don't know anything except that it keeps changing. I think it is the top - Mrs Černochová spoke about it - that at 10:00 p.m. you will announce that parking zones are valid from midnight. Oh, that's awesome! You've freed up that life! The mayors really don't have anything to do, they're waiting for your endless press releases to know at 10:00 p.m. that in two hours it's gonna start working. I don't know who comes to these ideas. So there's really nothing in the material that the Department of Health was planning to extend the emergency to 25 May, so we can objectively assess it. I would have expected the material to contain a list of the government's measures still in force. Mr. Health Minister, how many are there? Would you be so kind when I'm done, come on the microphone and tell me how many measures the government has taken? And I thought the measures would be there, and there would be, for example, the obligation to wear a drape -- to explain it, there's no need for an emergency. That's what I think is true. Social distance two meters - no need for emergency. Closed schools... Where's the Minister of Education all day, by the way? [[The reaction from the diaper.]] Schools are closed, and I have a feeling the Minister of Education has been locked up somewhere. [[Fun in the hall.]] Because he doesn't come here at all. And the problem is serious. He was spoken of by Mrs Němcová. A whole one, virtually. You took one chance to get into a dream school for three years. There's no reason for that. Neither health nor economic. And the Minister of Education is locked up somewhere. Probably voluntarily. He said he'd open the schools, but he doesn't have to go to them. I don't understand either. I don't go to school anymore. But teachers, educators, students, parents don't understand. I expected that, in such a serious case, the Minister of Education would be here because his department had taken extremely many restrictive measures. And we can't argue with him when he's not here. I don't know. I understand if he was in the House, in some office, listening to it, he wouldn't have to be here on the spot, I understand. But no one's answering the questions that Mr. Zahradník has begun and is to blame all afternoon. And there's a mess! And that parents and educators don't know how it's gonna be, it's just the truth. And most importantly, taking away the other option for the child to eventually improve, it got into a dream high school, that's like sacrificing one year. They may not be millions of people, but they're estimated to be 100,000 families, fifth, seventh or ninth grade. I'm not talking about graduation and stuff like that. I would expect the border regime to be described in the material - what regime the government wants, whether it needs emergency or not. Is it in the material? No, Mr. Home Secretary! Unfortunately, it's not there. I don't understand. I am asked by my families, and for example, the Home Secretary really advised me on a specific question of how to do this. But it's logical that every citizen can't ask the Home Secretary directly. The Minister does not have the capacity to respond. Cross-border contact. In the Moravian-Silesian region of property, three kilometers, I can see them, I can't go there, I have a family there. Nobody knows how it's gonna be. People are disciplined. They want to do what the government wants them to do. But they don't really know. And then they're scared because they don't want to commit misdemeanors, they don't want to be called those who don't listen to the government. Actually, the drape is a kind of a symbol of discipline when we put it that way. Note that some other governments have made recommendations and citizens are listening to this. Our government didn't even think she'd recommend anything. Such distrust of people. I think that the vast majority of people would understand the government's recommendation if it were justified professionally. Besides, we want the fines, yeah, Minister, so I don't spare the Homeland. We don't trust those citizens. I'm getting into economic measures. The Minister of Finance repeatedly uses an astronomical amount of 1.2 trillion to pump into the economy. And as she likes to say that somebody's mixing pears and apples, she's mixing strawberries, cherries, and all the other fruits you can remember, maybe some carrots. Let us try to look at the individual measures that the government has taken, and we have supported many of them, and try to characterize them, what it actually means, whether it is business support or something else, and what the costs are. Without a doubt, what support is - I start positive - what support is to businessmen is the remission of health and social insurance for six months. That's real support. I'll be based on the government's figures, about 8.2 billion health insurance and 15.1 billion social security. It's in the thousands we discussed. I'm certainly saying yes, that's the help of the self-defense of 23 billion. And that's good. And for that, I commend the government. That's a real relief. Then we have the infirmary, both dealt with by law and regulation of the government through the MIT. Sickbay's a social benefit. It's a social benefit. It is logical that the government has proposed this and the House has approved it. The schools are closed, and somebody's gotta take care of these kids. We can argue about the parameter, if 60 or 80 percent, that doesn't belong here. It's a good thing it was approved. Finally, the opposition also supported the proposal that did not come out of her imagination. Better 60 percent than nothing. Better 80 percent from 1 April than 80 percent at all. But it's a social benefit. [[18.50 hours]] I've read today, or maybe Minister Havlíček will back me up, as our state is actually in office. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a disaster. Today I have read, I say, if the Minister rejects it or confirms it, 55 applications of businessmen for parenting in March, to date we are assessed - we are on 28 April - 40 thousand, thousand refused, 17.5 thousand returned, paid about 90 million crowns to approximately 13 thousand applicants. [[1000]] In one month, March, April 28, 13,000 applications. What is the most common cause of the refund? You wouldn't guess. There was no confirmation from the school that the school was closed. I was talking about it at the last meeting. According to the article, the minister explained that because they wrote it on the program, that he understood that it was kind of stupid, but that it had to be because it's in the program. It's like the government wasn't planning the program. Well, if it's bullshit, I'll cross it off! How can anyone cheat that his school is open when the government forbids it? Do you understand that? Based on that, the application is coming back, and the family doesn't have the money. [[The Minister of Finance is speaking to the MPs off the microphone.]] That's right. $13,000 paid out of $55,000. And there's no confirmation of school closure. I was talking about it the other day when I spoke to Minister Maláčová in the debate, the MPSV is doing exactly the same thing. Six pages of the application, on the first page, is a confirmation of the school's closure so that it doesn't cheat. The government's trust in the citizen is missing again. We're still talking about not cheating. I'm not saying anyone can't cheat. Not here, these schools are really closed. I'm not saying someone can't cheat, but they'll come to that one. And they're really gonna pay for cheating. And without mercy. Then the secretary says the 25-year-old program that works. This program actually works. I'd call it the pětistovka, because it's a 500 a day, not the 25th, because those who don't really care think it's 25,000 net a month, not that it's 500 crowns, that's 15,000 net a month. But that's not business support either. This is actually a benefit in material distress for businessmen, to whom the government temporarily closed down the possibility of doing business. It's okay. We voted for it, too. Maybe we wanted a different amount, higher, but that's not what I'm talking about right now. So it's not economic support either, Madam Secretary. That's also a dose, a dose in material distress for businessmen, your 500, or a.25, as you call it. That's all it is. Or do you have any idea that the businessman gets the 15 grand, and he's supposed to run a business and feed his family? Well, that's not gonna work. When we wanted to discuss fixed costs with you, unfortunately, Minister Havlíček didn't make it last week, as he said he was planning a rental program, he said he might not be able to make it, but I suppose it will be soon, so it will really be, if this passes, direct help. But a 500 a day is no business support, but it's actually a benefit in material distress for businessmen. All right, we just need to describe exactly what it is. It's not business money. That's the money to keep these people alive so they can buy basic stuff. I'm sure that's not business support. Then we really have COVID I, COVID II programs. As the Minister says, it's not an automatic, it's a bank. I fundamentally agree with this motto that it's not an automatic, that it's a bank. But who aroused the expectations of those entrepreneurs? Who had those bombastic press releases? 3 009 applications - COVID I - exhausted in three days. I remember that press conference, I could find it, Minister Havlíček. What's the reality? After a month half discussed and of which 1,400 refused, 200 approved. That's help even direct, because if it's an interest-free loan, at least the interest on the company or the businessman is saving. So if it worked, when we add it up, all the interest that he would pay is real direct aid to entrepreneurs like that forgiven health and social. COVID II similar. If you can trust the statistics that are out there, then another year and a half will be the bank's review of the requests received. COVID Praha - I don't know, a program that takes nine minutes, opening and closing. So tell me, is that normal? Who's gonna make it in nine minutes? Didn't those who made it have information in advance? How did they make it to you in nine minutes - to fill out a request, send it and be happy in that package? What kind of program is this? The rumors that it's European money. So we should have given Czech money. The problem in Prague is, in terms of tourism, the biggest, perhaps with Český Krumlov and other renowned tourist destinations in the Czech Republic, and Prague's entrepreneurs are unlucky because the government has decided to use European money to exclude Prague. I understand that. But we're in an emergency situation, and we can't set up a program that takes nine minutes to receive requests. You'll never explain to the unsuccessful ones that it wasn't arranged, even if it wasn't. [[Once again, the Treasury Secretary is speaking from government desks.]] I know it went through the banks. But who had it ready? Who knew it had to be through the banks? Well, the ones who made it in nine minutes. The others don't. And that's not direct government help anymore. We can't count that anymore. That's borrowed money that's gonna have to come back someday. Now I read that Minister Maláčová says: the government is considering delaying payment of social and health for three months. If we hadn't suggested it on March 15th, I'd say very well, the government is quick, and on April 25th, Minister Maláčová will say so. But you have to read the whole thing - but not interest-free. With interest. The state will lend the money at 4 percent interest per year. Find me a bank where anyone can deposit their money and get 4 percent. Such a bank and such a product are not in the Czech Republic. So the most advantageous person to deposit money is the state that saves for businessmen for three months and collects annual interest of 4 percent. Is that help? Now we should have postponed either VAT, or health and social, very quickly, by buying time and within two or three months to find out who I can really help in selection and who doesn't need help. None of this happened. But we have 1.2 trillion. Madam Secretary keeps saying that. Over and over. Then show me the recipient of the money. Let me see that list. AB - wait, that's not a good example, so ABC got so much, DF so much, down to 1.2 trillion. Antivirus - certainly a good product, which actually also saves money. So the money spent on Antivirus needs to be added to the balance sheet that the secretary is talking about, helping the state companies. But not only I, but entrepreneurs would like to have information about who succeeded - for example, ABC, a large company under the law, asked for 500 employees, received $50 million. Because the help needs to be transparent, and then we'll know if it's a tool that helps big, medium, small, or least, or everyone. Without the statistics, we just don't know. But I'm saying it's a good product that actually saves costs. It's the official one: Antivirus A, Antivirus B, and now we're planning Antivirus C. The important thing is who gets the money and how fast. And the state doesn't trust those people again. Pay up first, and then we'll send something back after we examine all the evidence. Why isn't it the other way around? Why must the applicant of Antivir be shown by a bank account agreement? What kind of account does that company get money from every month for social services and health insurance? Doesn't the state know where he's getting the money from? Of course he knows, and he wants those forms again. I don't know. Someone here said who gives fast, twice gives. And our government says, before I give anything, I'm gonna double-check everything, what if there was a fraud? And it's like a red thread line with all those programs. Unfortunately, there's no trust. So much for economic measures that, as the Minister says, sometimes felt that something was wrong. And it's a good thing she felt it, and then she fixed it. What would the famous program look like if it was in its original form? Even so, we have not yet hit many groups with our measures, and so the government is planning, although late, but better later than never, whether it is a small eseróčka, an agreement to carry out work. I couldn't do it for a month. The moon was wrong. Until a government MP and a government MP were found, and that was it. [[19.00 hours]] This is the one rope, Mr Staněk, through the Vice-President. I'm sorry, I didn't want to talk to you at all, but I must say, you weren't here at these meetings, I didn't check it out. 30 laws have been passed by the government in a state of legislative emergency. And we are such a proud and critical, though constructive opposition. Ambassador Staněk, do you know how many of these 30 laws are actively supported by the ODS when we are so hateful and destructive? Well, I'd say, if it's consistent with your words, it's one. Or nothing. Or two. There were 24 of them. We abstained twice with the state budget, and I repeatedly told the Minister in the debate that we simply were unable to judge the number by the fact that there is little data. We voted against the rents, whether apartments or not, because you only moved the problem from one group of citizens to another group of apartments and from one group of entrepreneurs to another. We did not support a law on budgetary responsibility, which I do not think was in a state of legislative emergency, and I do not know the sixth. But we supported 24 of the 30's laws. You call that a hateful opposition? I don't understand. I've already written somewhere when I was criticized for allowing myself to have critical access to some government steps. Ambassador, I'm wearing a drape, look, but it's not a gag. You'd like to gag me, and that's completely different. So the key questions remain. Who invented the legal trick? Who brought this on the government? What was the reason for the regime's change? They can call themselves mayors on any side of their positive experience here, but you've followed the crisis law, haven't you, lords of the mayors? You didn't think about going around and doing it any other way. You didn't think of that for a second. Many members of the government, including the Minister of Health, say: this is something unexpected, we were not prepared for it. That's true, but the legislation was ready for that. We can have fun if we don't have to, when the pandemic's over, maybe we can reschedule, I don't know. But you resisted the emergency situation, you resisted the establishment of the Central Crisis Staff, then you did the legal trick, and suddenly the Ministry of Health ruled this country, the Ministry of Health restricted citizens' rights and freedoms. And what were the other ministers doing? They were heroically aware of that. Heroic. What's that? That's the cowardice of the government. I don't get it at all. So I would ask the Minister of Health to tell us who invented it, why he invented it, what the reasons were and what the consequences would be. I said today, I would say that the sad hero of the last few weeks is the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch. He failed completely managerially. On January 28th, at the request of Professor Svoboda, he said "we have everything secure, we have everything enough" to publish an article in February where he actually wrote the same thing. Then, in the long run, he lied to the Prime Minister and the other members of the government that they had everything. I'd forgive him for that. That's what I'm saying for myself. But he lied to the public and lied to the paramedics. We've had enough of everything. Remember, the press conference on March 14 says Andrej Babiš, who I believe had information from the Minister of Health: We have everything. And if anybody doesn't have anything, I'll get it to him. And two days later, the Minister of Health said he was missing a million respirators. And on March 14th, the Prime Minister, who I believe had information from you, Minister of Health, has everything. Second thing, it's a special point, those weird shopping in an emergency. Just compare the willingness with which the Ministry of the Interior published the contracts and the unwillingness with which those contracts were not published for a long time by the Ministry of Health. Then when the health service leaked it, we understood why it was like that. When you compare the prices, you can see who was shopping well and who was shopping at outrageous prices from outrageous companies. And what does the Minister of Health say? - I don't care, as long as I bought it. - And when we proposed the accompanying resolution, I think it's completely harmless, which was actually just a copy of the law, let's just say that the Ministry immediately published the treaties, as Mr. Adam Vojtěch voted? Do you think he supported it? He didn't. How did you, colleagues of the government, vote? You think you supported that? Well, let me remind you, you didn't support it. I don't think you care. A company with a turnover of 100 grand, owner of 18 executions, gets a $300 million contract. Well, that's a dream. That's what any honest businessman who has a small turnover would want to do for 300 million orders out of the blue. But it just doesn't happen in real life, it would be fairy tales for adults or Evening Man, it's at a different time and on another program. And the third thing, if we evaluate the sad hero of today's day, the Minister of Health drove the government into a state where the court had to decide that the government acted illegally. And don't lie to me when you say the trial is right. There's no such thing. Just like the Constitutional Court. [[The Minister of Health speaks outside the microphone.]] Right, so the Minister of Health, the lawyer, yells things at me, quotes them exactly as Mrs. Černochová here, and he's right about the court. Well, today's Wednesday, and it's 7:00 in the morning. That's exactly the same truth as saying it here now, Minister. [[Minister of Health off the microphone again.]] Well, that's a matter of fact. What's that thing? You acted illegally, but factually correct? You don't understand, maybe the two sentences are Czech, but semantically it just doesn't add up? It doesn't add up at all. But as the Minister of Health said, we are unique in Europe. Well, we are. I don't know another government that acted illegally, unfortunately. So I expect that the government movement YES under the weight of any arguments, but a strong speech by the Minister of Health will only support the extension of the emergency until 25 May, because, as the Minister said, all other proposals have no professional background, which means there is no professional background for the Communists either. And I am ending with a sad sigh at the address of the YES movement and social democracy. Do communists really have to decide in the Czech Republic 30 years after 1989 on restrictions on constitutional freedoms? You could have picked someone else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u83	So, at this point, I was informed that Mr Kupka wanted to read the resolution, from the Vice-President, with priority rights, Mr Jurečka. Mr. Chairman Jurečka, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u84	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I would only ask if the Minister of Health could respond and speak, because not only the previous speaker, but several Members today referred to the issue of the publication of data, anonymous data for teams of experts who would like to work with these data. And this also has to do with whether the Minister could explain why economist Daniel Münich was banished from the meeting by Deputy Minister Prymula, because if I read in the press that it was because he asked unpleasant questions, I think it is necessary that there should be people on each team who have critical thinking and can ask questions that are also unpleasant, but if they have their ratio, justification, and can help in the situation, that is the point. So, Minister, please, explain not only to us Members, but many people ask me this, in debates on social networks they would like to know why such a step has taken and why Deputy Minister Prymula has done this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u85	Thank you. Now I'm not sure I have countless performances. [[to the microphone goes Member Excellent]] There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u86	Thank you very much. I'd like to add that before the Minister comes to the counter. You weren't here, I think, Minister. I'm going back to the schools. May 25th, open swimming pools, movies, and kids can't go to school. If you could answer that question, too. If it really has some internal logic, or how to interpret the order of the Ministry of Health, not the Ministry of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u87	Well, thank you. The minister wants to perform, please. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I have spoken at the beginning, and I think that I have said the answer and the opinion on most of the things that have been said here. Maybe you weren't here, maybe you didn't hear it, but it was, we talked about the data. And I don't know what data you're still talking about, what data you're talking about when the data is published, it's published in detail, and it's available to everyone, the public. In this respect, I really wonder what data, say what data you need, what data in detail. Patient's personal data? Specific patients who are infected, or where are they infected in what villages? So I think that, in this respect, the Ministry with the UHIS is really publishing the data available, the evolution of the epidemiological situation, everyone can look at them every day, and in this respect I do not understand what data you are talking about. As far as smart quarantine is concerned, the smart quarantine is running, currently running at five regional sanitation stations, and this week it is being implemented on others so that it actually runs on all 14 regional sanitary borders. I mean, the project's running. I agree that the birth pains may have been a little bit bigger than we expected, that's true, but five county health care stations are already using the possibility to create memory maps, create maps based on data from mobile operators and so on, so it really is a project that is running and is going to start, and so as it will be in those regional health stations in the coming days, it will certainly be used. So the project is running, we're counting on it, even though now there's a relatively small number of infected patients, so of course it's not a project that's being used so heavily, but of course we're counting on it, and we're using the data as we declared within the county health stations. So this project is running at five county sanitation stations and will run from next week at the latest on all fourteen. So it's really, really working. As far as the predictions are concerned, as Mr Stanjura has said here, we are not really talking about predictions as far as May is concerned. If you've listened to me correctly, we're talking about how to disperse individual measures so that it makes sense. And I understand that here you can look at the individual areas and say your point of view, but believe me, this really happened to an epidemiology group that also met again today, and certainly all the more detailed information this week will be presented, just as it was presented for a wave that was actually opened, or those measures dissolved on Monday, that is, rules for shops, rules for zoos, etc. This means, really, for restaurants and others, believe that these rules will be clearly published on the basis of the epidemiologists' opinion, so you don't have to worry here that the Ministry of Health wouldn't publish the sanitary-epidemiology measures and rules. So in this regard, I really think the Ministry is doing the best possible, publishing the information, trying to inform. Of course, there are many life, detailed events, or situations that we may not always be able to grasp. It is simply that we are making some general rules, which may not always apply to all specific events and facts, so then we have to interpret them by some interpretation of the measure, but otherwise I think that these rules apply in general and are understandable and we will continue to publish them in this way. As for the schools, as Mr Výborný said, we agreed on this plan with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, which does not in any way encourage the plan to change. The plan is published, I think for quite a long time, it was created a few weeks ago, and at this point, if there is no request from the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, then we do not see any reason why we should change it in any way. I think it's a good thing if the measures, let's say, aren't accumulated, or the unwinding combined within the individual waves, that it's going to be gradual, just like the schools. If it really happens that we are going to unwind at one time risky operations, operations where a large number of people are concentrated, schools and so on, so I think that the risk would be quite large, so we want to divide the relaxation of schools into longer periods, with the fact that, of course, if the epidemiological situation is going to develop well, we can talk about a similar regime in June, such as in the first grade of primary schools and in the second grade of primary schools and so on, but it will depend on the agreement with the Ministry of Education with which we have created this plan, and as the Ministry of Education has approved it, we respect it, respectively, the rules are set. I think, as you say, things aren't supposed to change over and over again, so this plan has been published and we're gonna keep it that way. Otherwise, I might even comment on Mr. Stanjura here's talk about me lying and so on and so forth, 28. 1. I didn't lie. That's what the situation was then. That was the situation then, and it was the truth then. The fact that the situation was very dynamic and changed in the coming weeks, when, in short, objectively speaking, the medical devices were simply not available in a few weeks, that is true, but 28. 1. it was data and it was information from suppliers based on the mapping of the current market situation, where the medical devices really were, unfortunately then the situation changed in the following weeks, because the situation was very dynamic, very dynamic, not only in our country, but in Europe the demand for protective equipment increased many times over a few weeks, and of course the supply and production capacity were insufficient in this respect. But this was a situation that, unfortunately, was difficult to predict at the end of January, as the pandemic actually spread mainly to the territory of Europe. So I didn't lie, it wasn't a lie. It was situation 28. 1, 28. 1. Indeed, this was the information that was true, but in a few weeks following the enlargement, the massive expansion of the pandemic throughout Europe, when the first case in Europe was confirmed on 24 January, the first case in France, so of course there was a completely different situation 28. 1. and a completely different situation at the beginning of March. So it needs to be realized, really, the context of the situation, how it evolved from the point of view of the purchases. But I don't want to talk about that right now, maybe it'll be a separate point, so you'll actually be able to teach me how to shop here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u89	Thank you. I have three priority rights here at the moment. I shall recapitulate, first President Stanjura, then President Jurečka, then President Kalousek. And Mr. Kupka came forward, and I haven't forgotten him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u90	The Minister did not fail, he did not answer the fundamental questions. Again, Minister. Who invented the legal trick? Why did you suggest that? Who wrote this to you, and what did you do with the original government resolutions under the crisis law? That's the key. I said that you failed managerially, that you refused to debate on January 28th, and I said that you lied at the beginning of March. Or did the Prime Minister lie, who said everyone has everything, the legendary "who doesn't, I'll deliver it to him today"? I assumed it was based on information from you and the Ministry of Health. And I'm talking March 14th! I'm not talking about January 28th! So don't use such a figure, your favorite, that you're protesting something your opponent didn't say. I said you refused to discuss it. And that's a fact. And I mentioned, on March 14th, a press conference of the government, an hour to three of you walking around, and there the Prime Minister says everyone has everything, and if someone doesn't have something, I'll bring it to him. And I think the Prime Minister didn't have good information and that you lied to him. Only then did you admit you were missing the million respirators. And otherwise, it's how everyone knows everything. You don't have to explain it to me. Those operators are unhappy. Unlike members of the government, the Minister didn't even know if a hairdresser could come home to you or not! Remember the debate! Member of the Government: not allowed! MPO: it can. He can't! - prymout. MPO: it can. And after two days, the Minister of Health: may, I was wrong. So a member of the government who decides doesn't know and thinks that the operators, the poor people who have closed establishments, will know the day in advance and will be satisfied. [[19.20 hours]] And then the argument really doesn't make any sense, so I have to really appreciate that. Why are schools closed, Minister of Health? Because I made a deal with the Minister of Education. That's a completely bulletproof argument. That's a completely bulletproof argument! That's right! Ah, the experts told us to. But we ask what data we want. The ones that are there? I told you we had them, I didn't criticize that. You said right, there's no prediction in the material for 25 days. So if you want to extend the emergency by 25 days, there's no prediction in the material. It's not. That's what I asked, that's the data. And then the data you decided on the release. You can buy a suit, but you can't try it on. That I could have bought it in those open supermarkets so far, did you notice that? It was a closed bookstore, but I could buy a book at the hypermarket. Shoe stores were closed, and I could buy those shoes again at the hypermarket, even try. Minister, do you know about this? Have you ever been there to see what was selling all this time? Not just the groceries. Why was the bookstore closed and I could only buy the book somewhere? Why were shoe stores closed, the smallest ones, and I could buy those shoes with the big ones? Explain that to me, and don't tell me it was a team of doctors who told you to. I find that hard to believe. So what are you telling us here, how clear is everything? You don't even know if a hairdresser can come to my place today or tomorrow. You see, he didn't come. Just in case, I didn't want to break anything. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I wasn't sure, I'm not sure. So honestly I'm waiting for May 11th, if the conditions allow. Maybe they'll say that I don't, that my hair is too long, and that would take a long time to cut it. I don't know, yeah. But the Minister is clear about everything. But on that key question, you led the government into a losing court verdict. Or did the Home Secretary suggest it? Or did the Minister of Education suggest that the State be run by the Ministry of Health now? I don't know. So who brought it on the government? Can you answer us? Who wrote the material? You yourself as a lawyer, or some kind of deputy, or a legislative union? And what did you do with the government's original resolutions? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u91	Now priority rights. President Jurečka and then President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u92	Thank you. When that information was heard three weeks ago about the government's transition from the government's regulation to the Minister's measures and the crisis law being passed under the Public Health Act, government representatives in the public area at the level of the Vice Prime Minister and you, Minister, said that you had legal analyses for this. I'll wait for the Minister to record it. And I officially asked the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior and you, Minister, if you could send the legal analysis, which must have been an annex to the government's material. And to this day, I have not received any reply from your ministries or from the Office of the Government. So I think if there's an analysis, there's no problem telling someone in the secretary's office to send it. And then I was gonna say, you probably didn't listen to me. I said in my previous performance that there's a request for data that's anonymous. Nobody here wants accurate information about who lives here, who's ever been sick or anything. And I'm here to quote a message from an open letter from the Koronerv's team asking for the government, and so I'm taking the liberty of quoting: "Nobody asks for personal data about patients. Doctors, universities and economists are only asking for anonymous data. Without them, it is impossible to evaluate the actual course of the disease. It is not possible to prepare to save the economy or to continue scientific research, which is essential to the knowledge of the disease. Without timely information, business entities are harder to adapt to government regulations, they cannot plan and create extra costs that can be devastating to them. For the knowledge of Covid-19 it would be necessary to publish clearly on anonymous data who are the people who COVID-19 infected. It would be necessary to know as much information about them as possible regarding the health condition, the course of the disease, the place where they were most likely infected, not where they live. Both the public and scientists need to know what types of population COVID-19 has affected and how individual population groups are really at risk." This is not what people want, but people like Mojmír Hampl, an economist, former CNB vice governor, want it. Or, for example, people like Danuše Nerudová, economist, Rector of Mendel University, Jan Procházka, Miroslav zámečník and others. I think that the challenge of these people to cooperate and to provide this data for their scientific and expert purposes is absolutely appropriate. And I ask you nicely, Minister, to answer the question of why Daniel Münich was banished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u93	Thank you. Priority right, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u94	Sorry, I'll just be very brief. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are going to vote on is very crucial. And I would still like to remind you that, although many words have been said here, we still have the Minister of Health or anyone in the government who doesn't care, he hasn't answered why the government doesn't want to give us the data. And if he doesn't want to give them to us why he doesn't want to give them to at least the experts who work together. And without that information, it's hard to imagine that we're just going to vote. Do you have the data, Minister? If you have them, please give them to us nicely. And if you don't have them, then admit you don't have them, and we'll work with it somehow. But you can't talk to us in a way - we have data, we're experts, you believe, shut up and listen. It really doesn't work like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u95	Thank you. No one is applying with priority rights at this time. And since Mrs Richterová has applied in writing, she has priority. Then Mr Kupka and Mr Bendl. He performed once, didn't he, if I'm not mistaken? He's got a choice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u96	Good evening, Chamber of Deputies, Dear Government, Minister. I will be quite specific because I am trying to be responsible for the testing issue. So, as we've already read from the challenge of scientists, experts, what we're asking you for here is slightly more detailed data than those basically bare data sets purely with the number of laboratory tests performed, purely with the number of people with proven disease. You can each check on the web for sickened-current.mzcr.cz With these bare data that is missing, for example - I will give an example specifically of what the diverse scientists, the various kinds of academics, demand. And that, for example, in those data sets, it would be enough to add information about the education of those with the disease and the kind of employment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for peace in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u98	Why do I mention...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u99	We'll wait a minute. Please allow your colleague to perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u100	Why do I mention education and kind of employed? These data are general enough, but at the same time from this combination you can already conclude on lifestyle, some sociodemographic characteristics. It's also about releasing the data of those who tested negative. This is also relevant and now unpublished information. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] I mean, I'm from the academic sphere, I've done corpus linguistics, I've done statistics. In order to interpret the data wisely, one needs some background information, not just the bare numbers they have now. And that's what the whole request is about. And since every MP, you can check it out on that website, sick-current.mzcr.cz, you'll see how it looks now, so I think many of you will understand that this is simply not applicable. [[19.30 hours]] And I have one last question. Question for the Minister. I can't believe you, as a government, would make decisions based on these bare data. I am convinced that you, for example, have the broader context, the information about some kind of disease behavior in certain sociodemographic groups defined by education or profession. And since I'm convinced that you wouldn't be irresponsible enough to make decisions... [[A silence for a loud noise. The President is ringing the bell.]] I am convinced that our government does not decide by such simple, non-spoken data, and therefore I join the request of scientists from Mrs Danuše Nerudová to Mojmir Hampl to many and many others to get a slightly more detailed level of information. I mentioned it as an education or a kind of employment. I also mentioned the people who tested them negatively. I hope, Minister, that it has been understood by now and that you will answer whether they will receive this data. Thank you in advance for the answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u101	Thank you. Mr Kupka is also enrolled in the debate, then Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u102	I am only allowed to read the resolution relating to what I mentioned in my speech. The accompanying resolution would read: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to allocate CZK 15 billion from the European Union for an important injection into the future. The funds would serve to support investment in municipalities, towns and regions of the Czech Republic according to the key of 10,5 billion for investments and repairs of property of cities and municipalities, i.e. a thousand crowns per citizen, 4 billion per road II. and III. classes through SFDI and the remaining amount of half a billion crowns for all controlled and prepared transport projects which would not be covered by the SFDI budget.' I think here we are building on a joint discussion that investment for the future is also at this point the most important or one of the most important steps to move the economy forward. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u103	Thank you. And if I may ask for a written version. There. Mr. Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u104	Thank you for the floor. Maybe we should've added those county hospitals if they can give the faculty $7 billion, why we shouldn't also give funding to county hospitals that are struggling with the economic situation. But that's just a little bit of a sigh about how the system makes decisions around here. The Minister of Health was not here when I spoke and asked him some questions that I would really like to hear the answer to. I asked if it's true that individual laboratories use tests from different manufacturers. If it's true that the controlled samples aren't archived. If it's true that they can't control themselves back, to confirm, as they do with other severe diseases. And why, if that's true. And if that's true, the next question is whether the test that's being done, the rapid test, if his sensitivity isn't small, or if we know what it's like at all. Because I have information from the experts of the virologists who say that the sensitivity of the rapid test is very small, that no one really knows how to say what it is. This means that the data we collect is not relevant. And what's finally gonna work out will, I'll say, shoot you in the dark. I want to ask why we don't run tests through your serum. Why don't we do it, for example. blood donors, like other countries do. Because there is a possibility, the samples are all archived, all stored and can be rechecked by the state institute. With those samples, if I have information, and I want you to answer that question, because it's important for what you're finally going to come up with, what data will eventually fall out of it, because if it's low sensitivity, it's going to mean that the numbers are very inaccurate. Eleven doctors from Charles University - among them Professor Špičák, an honored colleague from the ANO MP, I expected him to perform today - made a statement that I would sign and which I found very, very sympathetic and true. Unfortunately, the government obviously doesn't want to go this way. Therefore, please answer the questions I have asked you, because this is crucial for the extent to which the relevant data will eventually fall out of the human testing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u105	Thank you. Mr Benešík for debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Last week, I proposed a point here in the House to instruct the Prime Minister, namely the government, to initiate an international examination of the emergence and expansion of the pandemic at European level. Australia has a similar view, the United States has a similar view. And maybe I could name another country. The world is paralyzed, the economy is suffering. Citizens suffer, including our country. And I'm asking if that's true. Because, although this item was not included in the House and was rejected by the majority, it passed on to the Committee on European Affairs before the European Council meeting. And I ask if we really want to know what happened, so that we can prevent such disasters in the future. Maybe someone will say it's too soon. It's not too soon for the Australan and the Američan. Obviously, somewhere there was a mistake that did not have to happen, so it is important that we avoid it and avoid people in the Czech Republic having to lower their standard of living, so it is important that we get to the point of error. And I'm asking if our government is going to face this, it's going to initiate this, and it's going to join states like Australia or the United States.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u107	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is still interested in speaking in the debate at the moment. Mrs Richterová - her second performance. [[Noise in the hall.]] And as it is customary for my colleague to perform, I will ask for peace in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u108	Thank you for the floor. Because the debate is likely to be over and I probably couldn't respond to the Minister's speech anymore, so I'm just really gonna have to appeal to the fact that it's not a trifle, what data is being provided, because it's also about... Further information on those positive persons, so that we can interpret as much as possible from how the disease is developing, is, in turn, very well possible to provide data on positive persons who have come volunteering. Or, on the contrary, in that group of social workers, where homes for seniors are acquired, or, on the contrary, distinguish the groups sent from elsewhere for clinical testing. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] I'm just suggesting the extent of things that are simple in my opinion, I suppose the government has them, and it's just about giving the open formats to scientists. Also, of course, information about the functioning of laboratories is extremely important. All I have to say is that it's actually a matter of how different capacity utilisation is across the labs, where we're doing so much, how much fluctuations there are. And again, most likely you have this in an excellent table. It could most likely be for publication again. It's also a very important time reading for those samples between the sampling and the evaluation. That's something that would tell us a lot about managing the test. And as far as testing goes, there's a group of people who have been sent to home quarantine. Once again, it would be very important to know how the results of the quarantined people turned out. What part of them was infected and which ended with negative results. So these are examples of things that the scientific public wants. [[19.40 hours]] In addition to those already mentioned groups of type of ongoing testing in senior homes, it can then be broken down to the level of individual regions and districts possibly. And that would be even more telling. And then there's the key question of repeated tests, the key question is that we need to know what part of the test is only to one person and what success is there. That, too, would be very interesting. And basically, the delay in the tests, the indication, and the proportion of repeated tests, so the information I've been given is basic epidemiological parameters. And I'm just saying this here because I believe that our government is making decisions based on this information, and I wish that this information was also available to the scientific public, so that it can analyse, for example, the evolution of the disease by the age of young people in different types of schools, so that it is known whether it is a lot in a few schools, or whether the disease has spread throughout the country, but little in each school. This is an example of the practical use of these data. And the last thing that's important is that there's a really important breakdown by region, so there's at least something to conclude about the regional spread. In summary, I don't think it's really that much to ask. These are not data from which individuals can be judged, but it will help to understand the behavior of the disease throughout our society. Thank you again for answering in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u109	Thank you. At this point, I don't see anybody who'd like to join the debate. Before I put an end to it, to be fair, I have a point here that President Jurečka, on the one hand, made a proposal for a duration of time or an extension of an emergency, but he still had an accompanying resolution. I wasn't here. Was it properly loaded on the microphone? It was about buying protective equipment in accordance with the law on... it was. So I'll consider it properly loaded. I'm done with the debate. [[It's gonging.]] I'm going to call in my colleagues from the lobby and try to recapitulate what was said here. First of all, we have a few proposals that are aimed at extending the emergency situation and differ only in duration, and some are the same in terms of content. For example, Mr Jurečka proposes an extension of 10 days, Mr Vít Rakušan proposes an extension until 10 May. Both of these deadlines end at midnight on May 10. I think we could vote them with one vote in support of that. Then there's a government proposal by 25. 7. then there is the proposal by Vice-President Petr Fiala until May 7th... What did I say? [[Voice from the diaper: 25. 7. but it's supposed to be 25. 5.]] Well, I'm sorry. I've already been to the next proposal. So, by May 7th, Vice-President Petr Fiala proposes. Seven days later, Vice-President Tomio Okamura proposes. Again, this is the same proposal in terms of content. And then, in the afternoon of the debate, Mr Ondráček's proposal was made before 17 May. In addition, proposals were made for the accompanying resolution of Mr Jurečka, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Is that all? And Vice-President Tomio Okamura. Is this recapitulation complete as far as accompanying resolutions are concerned? I think so. And now, after the previous agreement on the Gremium, we would first proceed to an indicative vote, if you want a support vote under Section 72, which of those proposals for extending the emergency situation has the greatest support among Members. I'll check you all out. And I would probably choose a procedure from the government to the smallest if there is no objection to this. It's not important. We will vote in an indicative vote only in favour. So first, we're going to vote on who would possibly be in favour of extending the emergency situation to 25. 5. 2020. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. The vote number 5 102 Members are registered, for it was 49. We will now vote on who is in favour of extending the emergency situation to 17. 5. 2020. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. This is vote number 6. 103 logged in. I don't know if there's been a mistake? For 44. We would also vote on the extension of the emergency by 10 days, i.e. until 10 May 2020. Who'd be up for it? Initiating vote. Voting number 7. Logged in 102, for 18. The last is a proposal for an extension of 7 days until 7 May 2020. Initiating vote. Who's in? Voting number 8. They're logged in 102, for 44. Time limits until 17th and 7th received the same support. I'm looking at the one that was designed first. It was a seven. 5. I suggest we vote this one before the previous one. That means, at this point, the government's proposal has gained the greatest support. Then we would vote until 7th, then 17th, then 10th. If some votes are successful, we will not continue. I will now make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period to 25. 5. 2020." Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number nine. 102 Members registered, for 51, against 38. The motion was not accepted. No agreement has been expressed with the motion for a resolution. Let's keep going, then. "The Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period to 7. 5. 2020." Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 10. Registered 101 Member, for 43, against 18. The motion was not accepted. [[19.50 hours]] We will therefore now vote on the proposal for an extension. I will read the motion for a resolution, let us have it formally: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period to 17. 5. 2020." Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 11, registered by 101 Members, for 54, against 24. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. Mr. Adamec to vote? Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u110	Mr President, in the previous vote on the extension of seven days, I was struggling with the buttons. I wanted to vote in favour, I think one would be against it. So I'm not questioning the vote, but I was in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u111	Thank you. It's been logged for the log. In that case, thank you all. The resolution has been adopted and I am ending this point. [[The O.R. object: No.]] No, sorry. I am deeply sorry, we still have a lot of accompanying resolutions left. I'm sorry. I'll try to follow the order of the lecture. First of all, the resolution proposed by Vice-President Tomio Okamura: "The Chamber of Deputies considers it correct to examine the uncertainties surrounding the purchase of medical material at an emergency time." Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of this accompanying resolution. Who's against it? Voting number 12, registered is 102, for 50, against no one. This proposal has not been adopted. There is also a proposal for an accompanying resolution by Mr Marián Jurečka: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government to carry out any purchase of protective equipment in accordance with the Public Procurement Act from 1 May and in an extended state of emergency." Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 13, registered 102, for 44, versus 3. This proposal was not adopted. There is now Mrs Pekarová Adamová's proposal: "The Chamber of Deputies is asking the Government to present to the Chamber a draft law by 31 May 2020 establishing the right of natural and legal persons to compensation for the damage caused to them in the cause of the crisis measures adopted by the Government under Act No. 240/2000 Coll., on crisis management and amending certain laws, crisis law, and exceptional measures adopted by the Ministry of Health pursuant to Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the protection of public health and on the amendment of certain related laws in relation to the resolution of the crisis situation caused by the Coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 in the territory of the Czech Republic." Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of this resolution. Who's against it? Voting number 14. 102 Members are registered, for 43, against no one. The motion was not accepted. I would perhaps suggest that we vote on individual resolutions first. The first Vice-President Okamura, then Mr Jurečka, applied with priority rights. And then we have an accompanying resolution, read by Mr Ondráček: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Czech Government to submit legislative amendments to the Chamber of Deputies, which would allow the central purchases of protective work aids, especially from Czech producers, a deadline of up to 10. 5. 2020; draft measures to be adopted on the basis of the Public Health Protection Act after the end of the emergency period, a deadline of five. 5. 2020." Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of this accompanying resolution. Who's against it? Voting number 15, registered is 102, for 91, against no one. This resolution has been adopted. Here is the accompanying resolution proposed by Mr Kupka: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to allocate 15 billion from EU funds. CZK for an important injection into the future. The funds would serve to support investment in municipalities, towns and regions of the Czech Republic according to the key 10,5 billion for investments and repairs of property of cities and municipalities, a thousand CZK per citizen, 4 billion for roads II. and III. classes through SFDI and the remaining amount of half a billion crowns for all controlled and prepared transport projects which would not be covered by the SFDI budget.' Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of this resolution. Who's against it? Voting number 16, registered is 102, for 43, against one. This resolution was not adopted. And before I conclude this point, with priority rights, President Okamura, then President Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u112	So, ladies and gentlemen, the SPD movement here proposed a resolution that said: "The Chamber of Deputies considers it correct to examine the staff of the Supreme Audit Office to be unclear about the implementation of purchases of health material in an emergency." And this resolution has now been rejected by the votes of members of the ANO, ČSSD and KSČM coalition. And I really don't understand. Because the Prime Minister also announced in his speech that, on the contrary, he would like the Supreme Audit Office to examine the growing speculations in the media and among the public - a lot of people are writing to me - concerning the circumstances of purchasing medical supplies without a selection procedure in an emergency. As I said, the speculations and suspicions also spread among the public and the SPD movement, it is convinced that such speculation and suspicion need to be verified transparently without unnecessary politicalisation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u113	I'll ask whoever may have some discussions to transfer them to the lobby. Thank you. Don't disturb the performer. I don't want to name it specifically, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u114	And we think that these speculations, suspicions would need to be examined transparently without unnecessary politicisation. That is why we have said very helpfully and constructively that our SPD movement here will not support the establishment of committees of politicians, as proposed by some of the parties to the so-called Demoblock, or even these parties, but we want the possible investigation to be professional, effective and apolitical. Even the Home Secretary Jan Hamáček attacked me this morning at a press conference and said that if I suspect that I should file a criminal report. But why? We just want the Supreme Audit Office to check it out. Why make a show out of it? We just wanted to - I would like to say a hit-and-run goose, but I don't understand why such an impacted response from the Home Secretary. On the contrary, it's the question mark. But why didn't you support as a government coalition, including the ČSSD, because the biggest speculations are about the Home Secretary, but we don't suspect the Minister. As Minister, we don't suspect you. We just wanted to, because I have a lot of people writing to me, and the media wrote about it. All I wanted to do was, no one suspects you, that's what I'm saying on the microphone so you can hear it. We were the only ones who wanted to. We weren't pointing at anyone. The only thing we said, look, so leave it at the Supreme Audit Office. And again, I say publicly, here I look at you, I don't suspect you. I just wanted the SAO to just examine it so that the independent body would give us conclusions. [[20.00 hours]] And I really don't understand why, when we were friendly, apolitical, we didn't want to put it at all, we just wanted to answer the public, and the media are also writing about it, so why did you reject our resolution so that the Chamber of Deputies would simply agree that it would be good to check out the Supreme Audit Office. You're gonna answer that yes, but he's already saving up, he already said he's gonna save up. But, folks, you don't have to say that here, because it doesn't conflict with the fact that we're going to adopt the resolution here. Well, I know that, too, so if anybody, and you're already checking in with a whole bunch of you and you're gonna say, but the Prime Minister already said, and he's already saving himself, and the NKÚ said he's gonna be doing it. But that doesn't conflict. On the contrary, if this were the House's resolution, we are giving it a clear framework, and we are all satisfied in that case, and we are sure that it will be, and we will need to have a report here. So for me, I am really very unpleasantly surprised, and unfortunately, I have to say that if the government coalition here has blocked that the Chamber of Deputies should decide that the Supreme Audit Office should actually deal with it, he will deal with it, so it inspires further speculation as to why you are actually preventing it. So that's for me. And the SPD will continue to insist that the government submit transparent information about the purchases, and we simply want to give the public the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u115	Thank you. I didn't close the point, and there's more of those priority rights. First President Jurečka, then President Faltýnek, Kováčik, Hamáček, President Pekarová Adamová at the moment. And I'm handing over the meeting proceedings. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u116	Thank you. I am so sorry that the resolution, which also went in the spirit of what the Prime Minister said here this morning at the beginning of this meeting, said that he wanted those purchases to be checked, that he wanted the SAO to investigate, that he was also interested, so that the resolution relating to the past did not actually pass, but I was here to give a resolution on the future, that means that we no longer create an environment, that it would go out and that it simply buys without any essential parameters, and that we would end this period and that even in an extended emergency, the Ministry would start from 1 May, which is here at least three days, to buy according to the Public Procurement Act, where the JŘBU institute is simply able to buy operationally, so that I would not admit it. On the one hand, there are the Prime Minister's calls that say, I want it, I want the circumstances to be investigated here, so that it is transparent, on the other hand, just not to create an instrument for the future, so that it is transparent, so that it does not pass here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u117	I thank Mr Jurečka. Now President Faltýnek, then President Kováčik. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u118	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm just a brief reaction by you to the Tomio Okamura performance. We all know, or most of us who are watching the media, that today, the NKÚ president, pan Kala, has actually changed the control plan and will focus on checking the purchases of medical devices and equipment. So voting for the sun to shine tomorrow seemed pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u119	Thank you. Now, President Kováčik, Minister Hamáček will prepare himself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u120	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I do not do this often, my fellow Members, my fellow citizens, but this time I have to turn to those who are watching our actions through television screens or social networks. I would like to ask President Okamura to apologize to the KSČM club, because, despite what Okamura said about us here a moment ago, he voted in favour of his motion for a resolution precisely because, even though the government is doing this, even if it is voting that tomorrow is the sun, or there is no sun, that tomorrow will rise a new day, so by voting, we wanted to make it clear that by supporting this resolution, we care that these things should be independently controlled, that all the doubts that are being raised here and there will also be confirmed or overturned by the independent supreme body. So all I have to say is that we will also put on Facebook, at least some of us who have it, that we voted in favour of Mr Okamura's resolution despite his assault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u121	Thank you. Now, therefore, Minister of the Interior and Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček, then President Pekarová and then Vice-President Okamura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u122	Thank you. I very briefly made two comments. First to Prime Minister Jurečka. Of course, actions are more than words, and I expect the Zlín Region to set an example under the leadership of Governor Čunek and from 1. 5. Shows us how to properly award these orders according to JŘB, and we will be happy to inspire the experience of the Zlín Region. And the second thing about President Okamur. It's already been dropped, but I find it strange to vote on the resolution that The Chamber of Deputies considers it good or appropriate for the SAO to do its job. The moment President Kala made it clear that it would be a priority, I don't see why we're here to confirm that the SAO is doing its job. That would be our vote here, because so are many other state bodies doing their job, and I see no reason to support it by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u123	Thank you, Minister. Now, President Pekarová Adamová, then Vice-President Okamura, then President Bartoš. You mít the slovo, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u124	Thank you for the floor. I just don't want it to fit in here. We voted on the resolution I proposed on the compensation law for our citizens, and the government parties supported by the KSČM were opposed to the government working on something like this at all, so that it would stand up for the claims of people who are directly damaged by the current situation. You put your head in the sand before, you don't want to deal with it, you may think that the help that is often presented here by complete housenumers is sufficient, but the truth is that it is not. And instead of facing it head-on, you were against it. Let's just keep in mind that we haven't learned the whole series of information we wanted here. We did not get a clear list of those measures that you want to keep alive, which you will ever disturb. That we didn't even get the input data and answers to the smart quarantine questions and other things. It was once again a desperate attempt on the part of many of us to obtain so much important information. But you don't owe them to us, you owe them to citizens in particular, especially to the public, which you call on to behave responsibly, but to give it a clear basis to gain that trust, that's not what you're trying to do. It's a shame!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u125	That was Mrs Pekarová, now Vice-President Okamura, and President Bartoš will be ready. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, I am publicly apologizing to the KSČM. I was wrong, I missed it. [[Let's hear it.]] And I'm not just gonna leave it with the apology. I repeat that the KSČM was for the Supreme Audit Office to check, even for the resolution, so that it could control the purchases without the selection procedure. So I'm sorry again. I have made a mistake and will adjust it to the fact that the votes of some members of the government coalition, and this does not concern the KSČM. The KSČM was our resolution for this. So accept my apology and I'll be careful next time. It's very unpleasant, and I'm sorry again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-001-001.u127	Thank you. My colleague Bartoš has given up his speech, and we can end the debate outside the debate, outside the debate, and we can also end the proposal for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the emergency period. The next item on our agenda, as we approved this morning, is item number
