ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 59th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. In order to record our participation, I checked you out first, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 46 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Thursday, September 3, this year. We would now proceed to elect the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Jana Černochová and Mr Tomáš Vymazal. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. I don't see anyone. I therefore initiate the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 1, registered is 93, for 93, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Jana Černochová, and Mr Tomáš Vymazal, as verifiers of the 59th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. On the basis of the agreement of the Gremium and the agreement of the Members' Clubs, I note that Members who are not present or excused in writing are deemed to be excused on the basis of the agreement, as we will be sitting in the so-called half format with regard to the epidemiological situation. The members of the government apologize: Andrej Babiš for work reasons, Marie Benešová - foreign travel, Klára Dostálová - working reasons, Lubomír Metnar - working reasons, Tomáš Petříček - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Miroslav Toman - working reasons, Adam Vojtěch - health reasons, Lubomír Zaorálek - working reasons. We would therefore now proceed to the establishment of the 59th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. Please note that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No amendment or addition to the agenda can be proposed, nor can the approved agenda be extended. At this point, I am registering in writing one application with priority rights. Mr Černohorský has applied, he has priority rights. [[Mr Cernohorsky has no interest in speaking at the moment.]] Not at the moment. Okay, in that case, with priority rights, Vice-President Fiala is reporting. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I'll ask everyone present in the hall for some peace. I'm going to ask you to take your seats and allow your colleagues to perform. Thank you. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, when we called this extraordinary meeting, we obviously had no idea in what conditions it would take place and how the situation with Corona would deteriorate. Of course, I would be tempted to talk now about how ineffective or effective government measures are, what confusion works, why we have broad measures again, and what the government has promised and failed to keep. But I am not going to do it right now, because we have called this meeting so that we can discuss three constructive proposals for the Civil Democratic Party here. Proposals to help businessmen, small entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs and regions. Suggestions that we believe are necessary and that cannot be put up with any delay. I believe that the debate on what is going on with Coronavirus, COVID-19, how the government approaches this and how it cannot handle it, that we will undoubtedly have enough time for this debate in the coming days. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] I am therefore going back to the three proposals that we want to talk about today, which I want to convince you that they are worthy, along with other opposition parties' proposals, of being discussed at this extraordinary meeting and of not being able to deal with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u3	I'll cut you off, Mr. Vice-President. Although we are here in reduced numbers, I feel that the atmosphere is not dignified. Please allow your colleague to perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u4	Thank you, too. This spring, the citizens' Democratic Party proposed the remission of social contributions to small companies and the remission of social insurance to businessmen. The government adopted our proposals after some hesitation - but that is not important at this point - but as you all know, this support is now over. And we believe that in this situation it is not right that the aid should be maintained until the end of 2020. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] I think it's very clear to all today that the coronavirus crisis is not over. Today it is also clear that the spread of the virus is virtually out of control, the clever quarantine has fallen apart, never started to function. And I think it's also clear to all of us, ladies and gentlemen, that none of us know what the situation will be like in a month, what it will look like here. And in this situation -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u5	Mr. Chairman, one more time. [[It's ringing the bell to calm the room.]] Let's do it again. Those of you who need to talk, go outside, let Mr. Vice President get off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u6	And in this situation in which we are, in our opinion, it is almost our duty, or certainly our duty, to help and at least give some assurance to the smallest, the most invulnerable and innumerable participants in our economy, so that they have time to recover and to have certainty at least some minimal assistance from the state. In this context, I would like to ask, and I am also doing so, the Government Member and the Government Member, in this case, not to mention that there is a disagreement between some departments, that the government does not agree with our proposals - or some departments - with our proposals. I think they're doing it on principle, it's kind of Pavlovův's reflex. Well, they're just opposition proposals, so let's say no. This eventually happened in the spring, but in the end the proposals that came from the opposition, but which were just about this assistance, were eventually also agreed by government MPs. So please overlook a little today, or rise above the government's position, and come and do something for businessmen and small entrepreneurs. In this case, we cannot take the arguments of government ministries completely seriously. When we read or hear that this kind of support will replace the cursarbeit. Well, even if I accepted this argument, it's estimated when the cursarbeit could be approved and could start to pay, so it's sometime in November. And when we hear or see the administratively demanding projects that are being prepared, it's also clear that this year's money and support would be seen by very few. And those little businessmen, or businessmen and small businessmen, just can't wait. The magic of our proposals, the simplicity, is that the remission of social security premiums and the contribution to the state employment policy for employees to companies up to 50 employees and the extension of the deferral and remission of part of the advances on insurance, pension insurance and the contribution to the state employment policy for self-employed persons, the simplicity of the spell is that they are predictable, automatic, do not constitute any burden at all and everyone would welcome them. [[10.10 hours]] Another government argument why it can't be done is budget. Together it is said to be 28 billion crowns. But please, that's not true. Even if it's true, it's not important. In this House he found support for astronomical debt, an astronomical deficit of CZK 500 billion. And the arguments we heard were that it was supposed to be investments, because we have to invest in this crisis. And while looking at how much of that debt, of that $500 billion deficit, is investment, we're going to find out from the National Budget Board's calculations that about $30 billion - $30 billion in $500 billion is earmarked for investment. Even for these 30 billion, it is not so clear that the government can actually use them effectively this year. So the 500-billion-dollar deficit, it's more like an opulent buffet, from which the Prime Minister and other members of the government are cutting or handing out different parts, they have a spare to buy voters. But that's not the real help. But what we are proposing will really help businessmen and small entrepreneurs, help the smallest and the most vulnerable. And as the Chamber of Deputies, we would also send out a signal that we notice the needs of millions of businessmen, small businesses, that we help people, that we keep jobs, that we prevent companies from becoming insolvent. That we simply perceive what is happening in the economy and that we are ready to help. The third proposal is a little different. The third proposal, where I would also like to ask for your support, is a proposal from the Senate, it is a proposal that also bears the footsteps of the activities of the Civil Democratic Party. And the proposal says that we want to provide the regions with a one-time contribution from the state budget of CZK 500 per county population. That's the best investment we can make because money stays in the regions, doesn't get lost in some administration, nobody's feeding it. I believe that this money will end very quickly in the regional economy, helping the economy of the whole of the Czech Republic, in the budgetary outages that the regions have as a result of the Coronavirus crisis. We were able to do it in the case of municipalities. It was our proposal again. Ours, I'd say, even the pressure that eventually succeeded. Let us also do so in the case of regions, it will be very necessary and it will help the regions, of course, but it will mainly help their inhabitants. Ladies and gentlemen, the coronavirus crisis is not over, it is also apparent from the way we are here in half the format, what measures are being taken that I am speaking here again after a long time in disguise. No one knows, none of us know how long it's gonna take, what's gonna happen in our country in a few days, what's gonna happen in our country in a few weeks, what's going to happen in what situation we're gonna be in. The Prime Minister himself recently spoke of shouting to the world that the Czech Republic is a premiere in the fight against the virus. But if I listened to him well, he admitted in the media yesterday that the Czech Republic is facing a difficult autumn. And I, exceptionally, agree with the Prime Minister in this case. And unfortunately, we're facing a heavy fall, a piece of guilt, a great deal of guilt, and a government that wasted a number of months to prepare ourselves for worse scenarios. A number of months the government gained thanks to the incredible discipline of Czech citizens, Czech society, this spring. It was months before we could prepare for another coronavirus battle, and those last months instead were a sign of chaos, absolute chaos, and dilettantism. But I don't want to deal with an incompetent government today, I won't do it, there'll be plenty of opportunities. Today I want us to help hundreds of thousands of people who will still need our help in times of uncertainty ahead of us. That is why we have come here with these three - behind the Citizen Democratic Party - with three constructive proposals, and I would expect you to be encouraged by Members and Members of the Government Coalition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. So now I have two written applications with priority rights. I remind you, we are discussing the approval of the agenda. Vice-President of Černohorský, then President Kalousek. And I have three applications from the post - President Jurečka, Vice-President Okamura and President Radim Fiala. That's all for the discussion on the agenda at the moment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We handled the first wave relatively well from a medical point of view. But it cost us enormous financial, health, moral, and other resources. Shutting down the economy caused a loss or caused a loss of thousands of jobs and brought economic uncertainty to the state, companies and especially families. But it did not bring the most important, and that is a lesson. The lesson that would prepare us for the future. The future, which, unfortunately, includes covid disease. It was so short-sighted and tragic today to talk about the Czech Republic as a premiere in the fight against covid. And as should be done, we introduced the pirát in May under the motto of the Future now. For example, a traffic light was taken from our measures, which the Minister recently presented. Anyway, I'd go back to the government's steps. It's already 11. 8. The expert group at the Ministry of Health agreed to wear drapes in indoor areas throughout the Czech Republic from 1. 9. This measure was subsequently announced by the Minister, discussed with the Prime Minister, or consulted on his National Health Risk Board, the announcement was made, but then the Prime Minister... At the direct request of the Prime Minister, it was withdrawn. The Prime Minister also gives unsubstantiated opinions about the weakening of the virus, which are in direct conflict with what the expert epidemiological group of the Ministry claims, namely that there is no scientific evidence yet of a falling virulence of coronavirus. The only research that the Prime Minister seems to be following is marketing. The Chamber of Deputies has already adopted 4. 6. 11 resolutions proposed by the Pirates, which clearly showed that we knew, and by accepting it here, I assume that you too assumed the danger of the second wave. The resolution was approved and contained concrete steps to focus on the national testing strategy. In this case, we also participated in the comments. In many cases, these resolutions have only been partially implemented. As part of the comments, several comments were sent for the MP's club. They were all labeled very good and were mostly accepted. At this point, we have a few matters to attend to. The first, of course, is to tighten up the sampling methodology so that people don't get infected in that place. And a methodology for labs to send text messages right after they get results. The next is to have clear communication. Who tells the measure, in what interval and with expert justifications. And the third is the use of open resources. Because at this point, we're testing about 15,000 tests, but we need to get to about 30,000 tests. The Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic already has our Czech kits, but the question remains whether we have enough machines for them. In this case, we would not have to convene this extraordinary meeting if the government fulfilled what the Chamber of Deputies had called for long ago. I would therefore like to ask you to support the agenda for this meeting, under which opposition colleagues present individual points, but which are a response to the failures committed either by individual members of the government or specifically by the Prime Minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u9	Thank you. I will now ask President Kalousek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly draw your attention to the situation of people who are not a very large group, but are extremely important for cultural and spiritual life in the Czech Republic, and these are self-employed people in live culture. Musicians are a typical example, but of course not only musicians. These are people who have to train hard today and every day. Their main job is that they exercise, but they only receive reward for performances. Self-employed persons could benefit from the so-called 25 under the Compensation Bonus Act in two periods, but the period ended on 9 June. Since 9 June, restaurants and shops have been able to open again, so for the vast majority of tradesmen, the opportunity to earn again. However, in the field of culture, hard restrictions continued to apply, many festivals were cancelled, performances were limited, and summer was basically dead. These people are useless. They can, of course, go sit behind the register or they can go to the construction site to do construction workers or anything else, but then they lose their competence because they won't be able to practice every day. They're not the only ones who are gonna lose that competence. We're gonna lose that competence. That's the huge capital in these people, and if we don't find a way to help them, we're gonna lose that capital. In the Compensation Bonus Act, there is a possibility for the government - here I refer to the government - that for the period from 9 June to 31 August, it can approve one more period of time for the disciplines that have been limited and for the days on which the restrictions apply. By 31 August, there were very hard restrictions on living culture, and I would like to ask you today to support us in adopting a resolution to call on the government to activate the third time period of the compensation bonus for self-employed people in live culture by its regulation. It's not some staggering amount. We move in hundreds of millions, we certainly don't move in billions, but for those people, for their work, and for the continuation of their careers, this is a crucial decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. The President Jurečka asked for the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u12	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Minister - the only member of the government who has come today, thank you for this - my dear colleagues, my colleagues, I would like to begin by saying that, of course, these days there is a very intense debate on the issue of re-enlargement of covido in our population, there is a debate on what measures are being taken, how meaningful they are, how effective they are. [[Baby]] I don't want to discuss and abuse the fact that I have priority in this meeting right now. In my contribution, I will focus mainly on why we called this meeting. However, I would like to say here at the outset that we will propose, on Tuesday, to include the government's proper meeting of information on covid actions in the Czech Republic, to present further steps that we can expect to know who is actually in charge of the situation, who is responsible, who are the experts on the narrowest team today, why crisis crews are not called, what measures can be expected for groups of people who are not only over 60 years old, but are, for example, chronic patients or are also vulnerable groups, such as vendors, salespeople and so on. When I read yesterday's statement about the government's decision to distribute drapes and respirators to people over the age of 60, I'm sure it's one of the steps that can be acknowledged, but we have to ask what the other endangered groups are going to do, how they're going to be supported and protected. I'm calling in time to ask for this point. I think that this will be absolutely appropriate next week, and I would very much like that item to be included in order to be properly discussed with the participation of the competent ministers, including the Prime Minister. If this is thrown off the table, then I will initiate for the opposition and ask the other opposition partners to convene an extraordinary meeting on this subject. That's what I want to send here. Now for this meeting, which has been initiated. We have proposed two points for KDU-ČSL here, which we think are very important for the citizens of this country. That one point is even a government bill. It is a government bill that concerns flat-rate taxes. It's a 922 print. So it is not that we here want to push some point, which is purely opposition, but I think that this point deserves to be discussed, and we at KDU-ČSL add to it a very important topic for us, which, as I have noticed, some members of the government, including Minister Maláčová, have also started to talk about, namely a long-term systematic contribution, increasing the pensions of mothers by 500 crowns for each raised child. We have already proposed this in the Chamber of Deputies repeatedly in several materials over the last two years. Last year, when we presented a small pension reform, we also mentioned this point on more than ten points that we presented at the time. We consider it important to systematically address the area of pensions. Unfortunately, this is not happening and it is evident that this will not happen until the end of the parliamentary term, even though there has been a broad cooperation between experts and politicians across the political spectrum to the Commission for Fair Pensions. I appreciate the fact that the commission was created and worked. She has done a lot of work, but I am sorry and annoyed that more or less in the last year, when the main conclusions have already been published, it has not been possible to move an inch to make a systematic proposal for changes in legislation and parameters within the pension system. Why are we proposing 500 crowns to mommies, raising pensions a month? Because when we look at the system of calculating our pensions, the only merit that is appreciated there is the merit in the financial plane that people have earned during their lives. And here it is necessary to bow down in front of those mothers and admit that these women who raised children sacrificed part of their careers, their lives to be here today, a generation that feeds and pulls the pension system, but they are actually punished for it. They had lower earnings, so they could not develop their careers, and today - statistically it is obvious - these groups of women have one, two or more children, and I note they have worked 35 years, very disadvantaged and their pension is lower by an average of more than CZK 2,000 compared to an average pension. It is one of the most affected groups, which, even now, is hit by very extremely rising inflation. I see that there are efforts by the government to help all pensioners across the board, but I would very much like us to help those who really need it, those who are struggling to pay the cost of living, food, clothing, medicines, health care, and housing. And that's what I miss very much about these government measures. That's why we come up with this as KDU-ČSL. Then there is the second point proposed by the group of Members headed by Vítek Kaňkovský, it is the House press 896, the amendment to Act No. 329 on the provision of benefits to disabled persons. We initiated the KDU-ČSL here about a year ago and worked together with the rest of you to make certain items in the field of equipment, such as the contribution to the purchase of the car and the like, to increase these things. I did, and thank you for that. There has also been an increase in the care allowance for persons who are in the third and fourth groups. But we also see a big problem from people from practice, and this proposal has been dealt with by Mr Krása and the Council for groups of people with a certain disability, and this proposal concerns making ZTP and ZTPP licences more effective and simplified, etc. [[10.30 hours]] The point is, it's obvious that we have small groups of people here whose health disability is permanent. These are people who don't have parts of their limbs, fingers, they're people after strokes, where it's obvious that the condition won't improve in the long run, people with significant visual and auditory disabilities. And we are looking at this proposal, a simple MP amendment, to make sure that the list contained in the proposal does not chase this list of people who have this kind of health disability - so that at the moment they need to renew their medical certificate, we do not chase in that circle of review doctors. Everyone here knows that the medical examiners are very overloaded, they're not able to keep up, the authorities are running these IDs today normally within three to four months. Those people are gonna lose their I.D., and they're out of ID for a while. We suggest perfectly logically that we say with these specific types of handicap that these people don't have to go through the wheel after the medical examiners. When a renewal is necessary, which we know that the card will become physically old, let it simply be a simple administrative act, and then the person automatically has a new license that will be extended, but he does not have to go to the medical examiners who simply do not give logic. The proposal is not only to help these groups of our people, but it is also to help investigate the cost of the state budget. So, please, nicely, if you really look at the optics of these two House prints that I have just presented, they really have a purpose. One is government material, the other is the material of a group of Members, but leaned on the Council for the disabled Czech Republic, with their support it is. And, of course, we support the other proposals that are included in the programme for KDU-ČSL. I think that businessmen, small and medium-sized companies certainly still deserve support in the form of remission of social and health contributions by the end of the year. Here we are discussing other proposals that will reduce, for example, the excise duty on fuel, other forms of support are being addressed, and I think this support is one of the easiest, administratively very undemanding ones. There is also a proposal proposed here concerning the financing of the regions, and here I would like to make a significant point - not only the municipalities and cities have lost much of their income. There we managed to return some of them more than two months after the debate, but they are also regions. Many regions in the Czech Republic, including who I am, face the fact that they no longer have funds. The management of the Olomouc Region prepares material for the council, which will be around a week and a half, with a loan proposal of one billion crowns. The state is always able to borrow better than the county. Let's help these regions finance the huge losses that the regions have this year out of tax revenue, but they'll have them next year. Because investment of regions in travels, in the restoration of regional property such as schools, health facilities, social facilities, these are often those contracts that primarily make small local and medium-sized companies from those regions. And we saw this week when the data for development in the construction sector was published, that just now it turns out that this year the biggest decline in construction contracts for these small and medium-sized investments is. The roads, the highways, the railroads, the contracts are more or less going there, but the small companies, they are confronted - I think the situation is difficult for them, the municipalities, the cities and the regions are significantly cutting off and retreating from planned investments. So please nicely, let us also support such proposals, including those that are here in terms of promoting culture and the like. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. Vice-President Okamura has the floor. If I don't see him in the O.R. at this point, I'm gonna ask the next SPD chairman Radim Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u14	Hello, dear colleagues, colleagues. Thank you for the floor. I think it is my duty to comment on today's special meeting and on the points that will be on it or should be discussed and to say what will be the position of the Freedom and Direct Democracy movement. I will start by extending the period of payment of employee social security contributions by the end of this year. We have repeatedly proposed this through Lucie Šafránková, Vice-President of the Social Policy Committee, on behalf of the SPD this spring. Government MPs rejected it at the time. The same applies to our proposal to extend the remission of advances on pension insurance for businessmen until 31 December 2020. We have already proposed this here, and the government has also rejected it, because it does not really want to support businessmen, otherwise the refusal cannot be understood. And today we have another similar proposal on the agenda, where it is not even a complete remission of the obligation to pay for this period of social security. This is just a reduction to minimum reserves, and even this, in its opinion, the government is not willing to accept. So we in the SPD are asking - how do you want to help these people, those businessmen and small businessmen who really need help? The SPD movement has long sought to improve the situation of our disabled citizens, which is why, of course, we will support the removal of bureaucratic procedures in applications for renewal of disabled people's licences, but these people need systemic assistance. That is why, through our Vice-President of the Social Policy Committee, Lucie Šafránková recently proposed a significant increase in so-called care contributions for people who depend on helping others for health reasons. These contributions are very low and do not allow them to live a dignified life, and we ask the ruling coalition to please consider this problem and allow them to live a dignified life. And, of course, we will also support the assistance of employees to the labour agreements in the form of an increase in the income limit, where there will be no obligation to pay insurance contributions. At a time of emergency, the SPD's proposals and political pressure deserved the promotion of special financial assistance to these citizens. In particular, this concerns single parents. However, so far, the government is refusing to grant any financial compensation to businessmen employed in part-time employment, which is why, in August, we filed a bill for the SPD to provide them with such financial assistance. So it was on some social issues that should be discussed today at an emergency meeting and which, in our view, would significantly improve the life of citizens in this time of Coronavirus. With regard to the situation in the Czech Republic today and with regard to coronavirus, of course, I must reiterate that the SPD has proposed a change to the Public Health Act, which would simplify the legislative conditions for determining, for example, local outbreaks and the conditions of people's lives in those local fires, not only for ministers, where it would be possible to control the Chamber of Deputies, to check the decision of the Minister of Health, where government control would be allowed, to check the Chamber of Deputies, the time would be limited to how long these conditions could be done in those local fires. In our opinion, it is the ideal law from the diction of its name - the Public Health Act of the people. What other law would you like to apply at this time to adjust the conditions in local fireplaces? And the government refused. The government has told us that it is preparing a new crisis constitutional law, where many conditions will change. That means we've laundered and wasted the time we had since spring, when we could prepare for this situation, which is today and which, according to the significantly increasing number of infected people, is likely to occur, and we have nothing in our hands. There's nothing in our hand! [[10.40 hours]] And what we have taken the liberty of, or what the Czech Republic has allowed, restrictions on industry, restrictions on the economy in the spring of this year, that is simply not really possible anymore. That means, I ask the government: how are you ready for what can happen next week, in two weeks, in a month? Tell us. Because citizens ask us, too. We have the recipe for it, and you turned it down. So tell us what kind of recipe you have for this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. And I'm gonna have to ask Prime Minister Pekarová Adamová with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u16	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I greet you after a long time, and I would ask you from this place to approve today's agenda for this extraordinary meeting, which the TOP 09 and other parties are also calling. Of course, more and more of the reasons that need to be addressed in the last few days. It is not that we should only address the economic effects of the current health crisis. In the framework of TOP 09, we have developed a completely unambiguous manual for the government - eight concrete recommendations on how to address the health crisis, which today, given how quickly our number of cases is growing, the number of positive tested and what trend we are following here - what attitude we should take. I know you can argue that this is not on the agenda for today's negotiations, but, of course, the best help for businessmen, entrepreneurs throughout the economy and society is when we manage to control the very health crisis, that is, if we manage to keep it out of the loop and have control of us, not the virus, as has been said here in some months at the beginning of the epidemic. Unfortunately, the trend seems unflattering, and so I would like to ask the Minister of Health to comment on the current situation, but unfortunately he is not here today, he is not at least here in the hall, so if he is somewhere in the galleys, in the showrooms, I would like to state whether it would be possible for him to speak with priority rights, he has the right to do so and inform us and, in particular, the public about how he intends to continue to address the situation. I must say that the current figures, the trend is so unflattering that it is to a large extent that entrepreneurs and businessmen, who are quite rightly worried that they might arrive at such an unfortunate stage over time, will again threaten to reduce their activity. That is certainly what they fear, and believe me, they do not sleep lightly because, as they still survive, many have been balancing on the edge of the abyss and in some sectors long ago beyond this edge, and now with great concern, they are really very anxious to see what is coming. And I believe that it should be on everyone's heart, because the fact that we hear that the economy is not going to shut down again is some kind of proclamation today, but we've already heard that there will never be horizontal measures again, we've already heard that the situation will be controlled by the smart quarantine tools, the clever route, that it will be tested massively. I remember the promise that was made here from the table, here from the front desk by the Prime Minister, when he said we'd get 20,000 tests a day. Where are they? It's still not done. Yes, there are increases in the number of tested ones, but we still do not get to this promise, which was made many months ago. Where is it, then? Where is the fulfillment of these specific declarations? I think that this deserves the participation of the Minister of Health, if not the Prime Minister, and that we should, in particular, reassure the public that you know what to do. We gave you a clear guide to eight specific points, we called it the Government, wake up, because it's a question of taking place. [[shows a sheet of paper]] And if I sum up very briefly, this is supposed to be a strengthening of sanitation stations, and so very quickly and more efficiently than is happening so far, because we must not let them down, either from a personnel or technical point of view. It is, of course, also a question of clear instructions for doctors, because we can imagine how there will be more respiratory diseases, influenza etc., they need to know how to act if they find a person who has symptoms that are possible for both covid and other diseases. A clear priority must be the promise made today, which was approved by the government yesterday, namely to protect those risk groups, seniors and people who are in some kind of trouble. But that promise really has to be made. And we're going to propose that it be implemented in an even larger number of those distributed respirators, because one respirator really is enough to travel home from the post office. It's a thing that would definitely pay off to invest in. Protection of risk groups. Here I want to appreciate the fact that Minister Maláčová has already asked for the testing of social services workers. I think it's necessary. I think this group really should be our absolute priority, which we need to protect. Of course, it is also a question of vaccination when the vaccine is available, how we are prepared for it from the point of view of legislation. Let's not neglect this area, please. And let's also talk about whether quarantine is necessary in ten days if they are people who do not have symptoms, if they have a negative test the next day of the quarantine, and if under special conditions, I note and stress the use of high-quality respirators, the person cannot return to work with the need to continue to monitor his health intensively. Then, of course, also massive testing. That's already been said. There have been promises, and I want to appeal again to make it happen, so it's not just a promise, because the number of tests should grow rapidly in this situation. Last but not least, the last point that we mention in this eight-point proposal, the specific proposal for a solution, is the publication of data. Also, of course, the research that has been going on here in the field of vaccine is the question of whether it is completely meaningful, but the data that we have asked for since spring is evergreen, so it is still missing in many specifics. And this is our offer to the government. Let's copy it. You don't have to invent imaginary ideas, in many countries around us they are beginning to follow the situation with great concern. And I would very much hate for other countries to grow after Germany, which will start to include the Czech Republic, let's say, on the red list of countries whose inhabitants cannot join them, and not just from Prague, but from all over the country. This is definitely a warning. And we would be most helpful to the economy if we could get the virus under control. What helped people from below, when crises like drapes began, they began to sew them because of the lack of them, as was the very early creation of an information line of 1212. Let us remember that it was a project that came really from active citizens who were able to get it up and running within a few hours, then hand it over to the Ministry. It wasn't a question of the fact that the Ministry itself came up with this. The same situation was with a smart quarantine, which is also an instrument that came from citizens. So even with this experience, that we often know how to help ourselves very well, the only question is, is if the state is smart enough to use the tools, so now I don't look as ridiculous as some might even look at the design of self-traution. I think that on these particular cases, whether line 1212, the smart quarantine tool, which is not quite well used by the turtle and where there are still reserves, can eventually be a really effective improvement in the situation just by adding the data themselves. I'm just worried about the realization - because of the experience of the other instruments. And we draw attention to this, and here we urge the government to actually work with this in a good and responsible way. [[10.50 hours]] And what we have here today on the agenda, the points that we have suggested, and we, as the TOP 09, of course, also support the proposals of our colleagues from the ODS, KDU-ČSL and other parties, but we also come with our own, so there are things that are supposed to help those who balance at the abyss not to fall into it. I firmly believe that we all care that we can actually cope with this situation and that in the coming months and years we do not face an even deeper economic crisis than it looks. That is why we need to help these groups, especially small and medium-sized and businessmen. There is a proposal that concerns so-called brokers, people working for agreements, so that their net earnings can be even higher. It is a compromise that was presented here by our Members along with other clubs many months ago, but it still does not have a turn for it. We will be very happy, and this situation is very nice when it is reduced - on the contrary, I apologize, to raise the line from which the contributions for these people are drawn. And I guess I don't have to remind you that it involves a lot of people for whom it's the only possible kind of earnings. And then there we also have, which was mentioned here by colleague Kalousek, a proposal that concerns people working in the field of culture, the creative industry. Unfortunately, they are very neglected. They are also affected by the existing measures, and those that have been going on for the past few months are very hard. We should try our best to help them and extend the help that has already been partly done, because otherwise we will really lose the magnificent cultural heritage that we should cherish. I firmly hope that you too are worth supporting these points, because we are all of course interested in the Czech Republic going through this stage as best as possible, and therefore I am trying to call you once again to make sure that no matter who calls this meeting, you look at the proposals to help specific people in the Czech Republic and therefore support them with your vote on the agenda. I believe that we owe it to those people in our own way, and most importantly, it pays off richly if we help them now, even in the coming months, for years. Therefore, I ask for two things: to address here at least in this debate, in the debate that may now take place on the agenda, and in the current health situation, which simply harms the economic situation and which deeply affects it, and in particular to approve the programme and these things that we have here on the agenda, we are able to discuss. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u17	Thank you. Now with priority rights for the ODS Club, Mr. Vice-President Bauer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u18	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, honourable Members of the Government, dear colleagues, I would like to ask you to make it possible, if that is even possible and it is not all long ago agreed, to allow you to approve the agenda for today's extraordinary meeting by voting, and, if necessary, by voting in the case of the Civil Democratic Party to support not only our three proposals, but also the others that are on the list of this extraordinary meeting. For example, if you support our three points by voting, you will undoubtedly help some 1.4 million people, employees or businessmen. Maybe in a little while, I'll tell you how I got this number. You know, when you walk the streets of this capital, when you walk the streets of cities or towns where you live, when you meet important employees, employers, big companies, middle companies, but also businessmen, you will understand very well that the economic situation, business situation not only in the Czech Republic is very serious, that it has hit virtually the whole sector, and you will also understand, among other things, on the streets of this city, even cities where I live, that some sectors and some areas of business are in a catastrophic state. And all the more sad is the discussion with them that, in the most important cases, these companies or these tradesmen did not get into a crisis situation primarily by their bad business, but mainly because the whole world economy was shut down for some time and, among other things, for a few months, the economy and business were shut down in our Republic. That is why I think it is appropriate for us to help companies and businessmen. And my contribution is not to judge here, or to evaluate what forms of aid we have brought here over the past few months, either as a government or as a Chamber of Deputies. I personally think that some forms of support are very successful, some can be doubted, some I think are unnecessary. But in any case, it is our duty to help them. For this reason, and it is not only my feeling of meeting trade representatives, but also entrepreneurs, there are certain forms of support that have actually proved useful, which are not bureaucratic, which leave liquidity to both businessmen and businesses, and, among other things, support the middle class, especially smaller companies, which I think is the backbone of the Czech Republic in terms of business. And for this reason, I am very pleased that even the Parliamentary Commission, which deals with how they are used and how effective all types of support within the covid, is essentially recommending the same things that the Civil Democratic Party comes up with within our two, virtually. three proposals. The first proposal is that we continue with the so-called Antivirus C programme, which is the remission of social insurance paid by the employer. It's 24.8 percent. I would like to say that not only I, but also the Commission has assessed that this programme to support small companies up to 50 employees, when they are helped by the non-payment of social insurance paid by employers, was very effective, at least bureaucratic, and, as I have the latest figures, in June it was used by approximately 100,000 companies. In some ways, you can imagine that around 100 000 companies employ some 700,000 employees. So this is a direct form of support for some 700,000 employees. We propose that this programme should not end at the end of August and that it is best extended by four months in an accelerated reading under the 90s by the end of 2020. The second proposal, in my opinion, equally effective, at least bureaucratic, is that we extend for businessmen, for the CFI not to pay minimum advances for health insurance and social insurance. Not only in my opinion, but also in the opinion of the parliamentary evaluation committee, this form of support is very effective, non-bureaucratic. And for this reason, we also recommend, alongside this commission, that this forgiveness of minimum advances for the self-employed and businessmen should not be terminated at the end of August, but was extended by the end of 2020, by the four months. We are not hiding that these measures, if they are approved, have some economic implications, in the case of the continuation of Antivirus C it is approximately 16 billion, in the case of the forgiveness of minimum advances for the self-employed and for traders, which are approximately 700,000, just so you know, so that is the sum, up to 1.4 million people, it should cost about 9 billion crowns. The last point where we ask you for any support is the compensation of all regional establishment within the framework of the arrangement in the Czech Republic, i.e. the regions. The President has already spoken of this. This is a one-off contribution in the level of CZK 500 per person, respectively. the inhabitants of the region concerned. Just for your information, I'm from South Bohemia, I'm a South Bohemia MP, even a regional representative, we have approximately 26,000 inhabitants, and in our case it would be approximately 300 million crowns that would still come this year, for which I think we are able, for example, to build one large retirement home or some other social housing facility in South Bohemia. [[11.00 hours]] I would like to conclude by saying that we certainly do not have the illusion that all the problems of the Czech business situation have been sparked by the many aids that have taken place here since March of this year. Business and economics have their inertia, and as I have my personal experience, the big, perhaps the biggest problems are yet to come and await us in the autumn of this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u19	I would like to thank you and ask you with the priority right to the agenda of the President Farského meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am here to ask you, too, to approve the agenda for the meeting so that we can have a debate on individual points. The situation is simple, we have a few meeting points ahead of us, but they will touch quite a significant part of the population, from self-employed people to workers to regions and providing services in regions, public transport, to disabled people, to people working on labour agreements. They are simply points that are not extremely complex in their content, but they respond to the situation in which we, as the Czech Republic, have the potential to help millions of people and households, and especially those who are vulnerable and who need help as much as possible. For the Mayors and independent colleagues, we have added a point that disturbs one such systemic nonsense that has unnecessarily harassed and burdened people and organizations, a situation where, if the State decides to close school facilities, it requires parents to supply the state authorities with information on the fact that the school is closed on school forms. A completely senseless state makes a decision, and then requires citizens to prove that they have. It's so stupid and so burdensome that we think it's time to throw it out of the law. Although we can say that, at the time we served it, it was still true that no area measures would ever be established again, but unfortunately, these spoils, these commitments, these promises do not fulfill and become empty declarations. And we must respond to this and be prepared and do not complicate the situation unnecessarily. I therefore ask you, in the interests of the citizens of this Republic and in order to manage the crisis situation in which we are in together, please support this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u21	Thank you. Now with priority rights for the club KSČM Mrs. Vice-President Aulická Jírovcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u22	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues, although we are of course in a much smaller number here, let me speak with priority rights and say my position for the KSČM club on today's programme. So, while I must say that the colleagues who spoke before me really took it a little bit as an election campaign and presented us with their other proposals, which will be dealt with at next week's meeting, of course these proposals, which we actually have on the agenda today, have been on the agenda since next Tuesday. For us, maybe I'd just respond to Mrs Pekarová. I might like to apologize to the Minister of Health, but as far as I know, he hasn't finished his quarantine and he hasn't been able to attend yesterday's health committee telemosty, which means that he really couldn't participate in today's negotiations because of this quarantine. Maybe that's just for explanation. I'm not his attorney, but I think it should be heard. We're talking about a measure situation here. I, for example, did not hear a negative opinion on what the last measure was announced yesterday on the Health Committee yesterday. I think everyone agreed that the situation is really serious, although, of course, somewhere, the outbreaks are significant, and that the last measures in place are necessary. Indeed, across the political spectrum, we had no comments on this, rather, expert issues were addressed, which means how three groups of experts, epidemiologists, health professionals at the Ministry of Health work, and how, in turn, decisions are made on measures that either apply locally or now even across the board. For me, I think that if the criticism is from some colleagues, perhaps they should start communicating with representatives, perhaps on the Health Committee. Perhaps I would also comment on the fact that yesterday, if I'm not mistaken, the government, where it was also a so-called cursarbeit. He didn't approve, and now we'll be waiting for what our coalition will agree on and what it will look like. I must say that we took this form of possible assistance for the future, of course as some stable assistance for our companies, and I am not quite sure if this agreement will come to that. We at KSČM are probably willing to discuss this with our experts and set some of these parameters. Let's see how the coalition gets on with it. But maybe it's also an answer, why I'm saying it here, just for the other designs from the workshop, especially the ODS, which have actually been introduced here and they're saying that the payment of social security premiums and pension insurance should be pardoned. We certainly do not support these two proposals. It is therefore up to the end of 2020. We think that it was justified to allow forgiveness until August 2020, and it was sufficient and, above all, we are having fun that it was at a time when the emergency was actually more valid. Now we do not have an emergency situation, we are trying to get the economy going, and I think it was especially with our colleagues from ODS and other parties who were dealing with the situation of how to help and start the economic site within the Czech Republic. That revenue slump, and I'm certainly not here as a defense attorney for the state budget, but I'm sure that's why the slump is so sharp. At the same time, I have to say that the claims of insured persons still remain, and I do not think that we really should start saying that the deficit that we have approved can, of course, also be next year, so it cannot be done. We all know how we need to kick the economy and deal with it. When I spoke to some of my employers in the Ústí Region, I do not say that they are the smallest, but the middle, sometimes small, sometimes bigger, and more or less trying to solve their situation, some even without the help of the state, because unfortunately some of the conditions and the parameters were so bad that it simply could not be solved and could not accept the help. And I have to say, everyone's really trying to go without other things. The cursarbeit may be a certain help, but it really wants some clear parameters without any significant administrative burden and clear parameters for long-term assistance, because those companies really need some certainty. As regards the proposals of Members of Vít Kaňkovský, Václav Klaus, Pavla Golasowská, this is an extension of the validity of the licences. The proposal's in the '90s. I have to say here that we are here for the KSČM, whether to give this support or not, because for us there is a certain solution to the administrative burden, which of course we understand. We know that the proposal has yet to be discussed with the National Council of Disabilities. Anyway, we really think that there should also be a large conceptual solution not only to this area, but, above all, medical assessment services. And that is true, and here we have to admit that despite KSČM's appeal so far from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, these efforts that are being dealt with in the long term, and we can talk about the fact that in the medical review crisis, we think that if we don't deal with this legislatively within three years, there will be a major crisis, but the big crisis means 100 billion a year, over which other funds are actually paid, and that will, of course, affect the lives of our citizens. That means it's a minor modification. We know that the government is negative about this. On the other hand, the benefits and arguments of the government should be discussed. I don't know if it's appropriate to deal with this in the '90s, but we're ready to discuss it as a KSČM. [[11.10 hours]] Where I must strongly disagree, there is support for the proposal of Members of Vít Rakušan, Věra Kovářová, who are currently being dealt with at the infirmary. My colleague Farský introduced it here, and I must say that the proposal seems to me more like something has to come up in order not to say that we didn't put anything here. We're really talking about the fact that if there's unnecessary approval of the school facility when it's closed, we can talk about it, but it was a period of emergency, it was the first load, and I'm convinced, as we're all probably seeing now, we're moving a little further, that it's always been, if the school facility closes, it's about individual schools. I don't suppose - or maybe it will happen, but all schools would be shut down. But at this point, I really don't think that, and we believe that it's completely unnecessary for them to leave that a school facility wouldn't give confirmation that the school is closed. We think it's really just the one to come up with something at a time when colleagues are coming. For us, we will not support the agenda. We said it at a press conference. Because as of Tuesday, September 15th, we have a meeting called, where exactly all these points are placed - placed, I apologize. And I am convinced that the way I listened to some colleagues, that elections are just coming up to regional councils, and it's exactly the question of when we have our minute to just ask ourselves about our proposals. There's nothing stopping them. I get it. Everyone's looking for their points. Of course, we are trying too, but at this point, I think it's really redundant. Even in the context of the situation that is in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Okamura is now Vice-President. Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared for the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered at an extraordinary meeting. It is before the elections, we have a covid, but I see some benefits in this situation, because the crisis has forced the government to do some useful things, and proposals for SPD laws are being implemented, whether it be the abolition of property acquisition tax, the proposal to introduce a flat-rate tax for businessmen, which will make their activities very easy or increase their lowest pensions. However, this is not the solution of a one-off contribution which the SPD will of course also support, but the system solution is the law proposed by the SPD on a minimum decent old-age and disability pension in the amount of minimum wage, which would be CZK 14,600 for everyone this year and only from this amount in merit. Of course, under the terms of the years worked and in the case of disabled people for those who could not work. The SPD movement promotes not only the reduction of the levy burden on businessmen and small companies, but also the substantial financial support of working parents with children, and we have also filed a law in the House to increase tax discounts on the taxpayer, which has not increased for 12 years. And thanks to our proposal, all working people, including employees, businessmen, disabled and old-age pensioners or students, would improve on average by CZK 1,035 a month. We have also passed a law to increase the allowance for the care of disabled people because the government forgets them. We also want to introduce advantageous government guaranteed marriage loans for working families. Finally, in the House, the SPD law is being discussed to end the abuse of doses that are inadaptable. Unfortunately, the government is rejecting our laws to help people in executions, including nationalisation of executors. Unfortunately, among the government's rejected laws are also our referendum law. Furthermore, the laws abolishing the OSA fee for entrepreneurs for whom the production of music is not a profitable activity, which is most of the establishments and shops. The government also completely incomprehensiblely rejects our law on the ceiling of interest rates - so-called. RPSN - which would end usury. And I could go on for a long time, because the SPD has passed a large number of laws that will help all decent people. To enforce them all, we need to strengthen the election. There's an election in less than a month, so it's in your hands, our citizens. These are all our bills that will help people. But you have to tell yourself where the causes of all the problems are. Thanks to huge bureaucracy, we have an expensive state that doesn't help the economy, but it slows down wherever it can. And they were parties such as ODS, CSSD and KDU-ČSL, whose governments took the state's income from state-owned companies, which now flow to private, mostly foreign companies, and taught the state only to reach into taxpayers' pockets. Of course, growing robberies from employees' pockets, tradesmen's and companies require more control over the scuff marks. We disagree with this model in the SPD. It was the ODS, the people with tombs in today's TOP 09, the Social Democrats who allowed the state to steal revenue for years and liquidate the state companies that fed the state, and it was the governments along with today's ANO movement, which for 30 years increased the number of officials and mainly the papers and regulations that suffocated businesses and businesses. And, as I have already said, the coronavirus crisis has brought at least one major and correct change in the government coalition, when, after years of hesitation, it has accepted the SPD's proposal to tax flat-rate taxpayers and thus to ease both people and the state from over-the-counter paperwork and over-control. It was not the SPD proposal, but since 2013, I have been pushing it here in the House for almost eight years. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has announced its intention to freeze civil servants' salaries. After the coalition of the ANO and the ČSSD spread out and jammed hundreds of billions of debts, it was time for someone to pay for them. Who's it gonna be? The government gave black Petr to firefighters, police, paramedics, paramedics, and others that we in the SPD certainly don't think have any overvalued salaries. On the contrary. I do not lose sight of the fact that average wages in the state sector are higher than in private. But you need to see what it is. Bureaucracy is growing, but not because officials are making it up. Papers and stamps are invented by the government and the government coalition of the ANO movement, ČSSD with the support of the KSČM, which follows the motto: We will complicate anything that can be done more easily. And the salaries? I don't think a clerk at a financial office ever saves money on a Ferrari. He doesn't have a high salary. The fact that there are now higher average salaries in government than in private is due, for example, to the salaries of state managers, which are often higher than the salary of the Prime Minister or the President. We have very little information available - but the government knows why. But the media recently published statistics that say 229 state managers have salaries above CZK 2.5 million a year. Well, more than 200,000 crowns a month. Remember the postmaster who took $8 million a year and then, when he had to leave for inability, he still got a 3.5 million gold parachute? In doing so, the post office staff work hard for a real beggar's wage. And they may dream of golden parachutes. This is not only uneconomic, but it's from the government that runs state firms, it's just plain rude. I will add that the Czech Post is under the control of the Ministry of Interior, which has been run by ministers for ČSSD for seven years. Now specifically Jan Hamáček from ČSSD. Czech Post, this is the company that has been able to stay in loss for years, at times when the number of shipments is breaking records and when other shipping companies have record profits. As you can see, the state can reward the incompetence and losses for the state and citizens with the astronomical rewards of managers. However, regular delivery companies have shameful financial conditions. I think you know where I'm going. Dear government, the way you run the state is really costing us. Moreover, the debts that this government has made are indeed record-breaking throughout the history of our countries. [[11.20 hours]] So it is necessary to cut unnecessary expenses that bring nothing to decent people. But again, don't spare yourself on those who are not really responsible for the debts, who are doing useful, needed, and good work. Do not spare on firefighters and punish - do not punish firefighters, paramedics, paramedics, but also teachers or police officers. Start saving up where you really need to save up. So, Prime Minister, first of all, simplify our lives. Cut the paperwork for us and the clerks, and stop throwing money at friends and friends of friends whose work we all have legitimate doubts about. And in the end, it would be really time for the state to learn how to make money differently than by taking down decent people. Try to reduce your paycheck to the head of the Czech Post and try to add to its performances. If they can make hundreds of millions a year of competing companies, let Czech Post learn it, along with more and more state companies. And that's what I'm saying, knowing that the post office also provides a service that isn't always profitable. And the state should not be afraid, just as the Czechoslovak state and the Western states around us, to establish profitable companies or to have shares in them. When the Czechoslovak state, for example, founded the legendary Zetor as a state enterprise just after the war, it was one of the reasons to create a company that would earn the state's pension or health care. It succeeded, and Zetor actually made money on those pensions for decades until our great capitalist revolution, which basically destroyed it as an uncomfortable competition for American tractors, John Deere, and handed it over to the competition. Let us remember that on these privatization robberies, which cost us and our state thousands of billions of crowns, both the representatives of the right-wing representative ODS and Havlův fans have an undying share. And not just them. Zdeněk Bakala, Bohuslav Sobotka from ČSSD. Unfortunately, those are the names associated with the privatization scandals of an unprecedented scale. Ladies and gentlemen, last but not least, I cannot forgive myself for repeating the challenge to Prime Minister Babiš. Before you start, Prime Minister, taking money from firefighters, police or paramedics, as you've already announced, why don't you ask your friend Frau Merkel if she would give us all the $1,500 billion that her state, Germany, owes us in reparations. You told me you didn't want to interfere with your relationship with Germany. Poland, Greece and even Namibia have already received claims, which have already received a specific financial offer from Germany. When Germany has the appetite and the money to pay for illegal migration, when its foreign minister Heiko Maas wants to redistribute compulsory migrants to us, as he said at the beginning of July of this year in the German Parliament, Germany could certainly pay what it owes us. And you, Prime Minister, wouldn't have to go into the pockets of citizens who weren't responsible for past robberies of ODS members or ČSSD members and others, but your mega-dukes would have paid those who owe us for stealing, robbing, murdering and destroying our country during the German occupation. That's more than fair. It's money you have no right to forgive. It is the money of us, of all citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u25	I thank you and ask you with priority right - Mr Kaňkovský, the President Jurečka will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u26	Good morning, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, allow me, on behalf of the President of our member club Jan Bartošek, to add some of the arguments put forward by the President of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka, why we supported the convening of an extraordinary meeting at this time. We were asked by journalists today why, when we meet here on Tuesday, September 16th, at a proper meeting where we will deal with a number of points. I think we all know how long the list of government and non-governmental designs is at this point in time for a proper meeting programme and how these points are actually congruent to us. We also know what the government coalition's approach to including some opposition proposals is, but that is not what I would like to talk about. I believe that the programme that has been proposed today - and I must say that it has been very much considered by the opposition, which points have been included here today - demonstrates that we are really trying to solve the problems that are of interest to the citizens of this country, and the scale is very wide, because, of course, every citizen is in a different age situation, in a different situation from the point of view of his family, in a different professional situation. And here we want to deal with the problems of the CFI, we want to deal with the problems of small, medium-sized companies. We want to look at a government bill that affects, among other things, pensioners. We also want to address this law, which was mentioned by our colleague Marian Jurečka and which was also touched here by colleague Aulická Jírovcová. So we don't just want to give away billions and talk about whether or not it's useful. We think that in many cases it is necessary to help different groups of people, and let us not forget the people whose life bread is the operation of culture. That's a very vulnerable group of people today, and they need help, too. But we have also included a law that affects perhaps for a government coalition not so interesting groups, and these are people with disabilities. It has already been said that people with disabilities are in a specific situation. And I don't want to say that they're not helping them in this country. Of course they are helped, but there are some areas where I believe that they should be helped more. And, world, wonder, it's not about money right now. Healthily disabled people are not always handicapped just because they have a low disability pension, that they have little job opportunities, but are often handicapped by the way in which they must claim some benefits in quotation marks. They are basically just compensation for the way in which they find themselves living when they live with disabilities. And we wanted to have fun here and we want to have fun, and I still believe that you will raise your hand for the agenda of this meeting, about the situation of people who are entitled to a disability card. Yes, it's not a mass group like some others, but it's people who have their backs on the fate of life. And as I have already said, this is not about any new claim at the moment, but we want these people, and in connection with the covido disease it is even more whiter, the administrative process has simplified when they are already entitled to a TP, ZTP or ZTP/P card, i.e. to a disability card according to the burden of their damage, so that they do not have to, especially those who already have severe permanent damage, circles of health inspections and subsequent anabolics in medical assessment service. This will not cost the Czech state a crown, on the contrary, it will save considerable money and also, and this needs to be emphasized, it will at least lighten the very overloaded medical assessment service. Yes, our proposal for an amendment to the Act on the provision of benefits to people with disabilities, where this issue falls, will not solve the long-term problems that the medical assessment service has, but will at least make things easier for them. So in the finals, the effect of this relatively simple measure will be multiple. Persons who have permanent damage to the type of lower limb amputation, severe neurological damage, people who are in wheelchairs, and unfortunately there is no chance for them to get out of the wheelchair, why do they have to take another tour once every ten years? It is stressful for them, it is stressful for their families and it will not bring anything to the Czech state. The government has taken a negative position on this parliamentary bill that we have prepared with the National Council of Persons with Disabilities. I don't want to discuss all the reasons there. The government basically does it with most opposition proposals, unless they're friendly opposition parties that the government coalition needs something from. But there was one point I was very interested in. In its opinion, the Government is relying on another parliamentary proposal, which amends the Act on granting benefits to disabled persons, again from the pen of opposition Members, at the moment it is STAN, I am also co-signed there, and this bill deals with a completely different issue than that which we are dealing with in our amendment. I don't think that's a fair argument from the government, and it's probably a bit of a laugh. Because if the government doesn't have any more arguments that it's using such arguments, I'm asking why the government doesn't want to argue with us. [[11.30 hours]] In conclusion, we have proposed the negotiation of this law pursuant to § 90 para. 2, therefore approve at first reading. And it's precisely because of the covidal contagion that we don't need to drag those disabled to the doctors. But we are certainly willing to withdraw from this proposal and discuss it in a classic, perhaps accelerated reading, however, in three readings. But let us discuss this issue and return to a comprehensive discussion on the issue of disabled people. My colleague Aulická said so here. It's medical review, it's a care allowance. The problems - and it's also the Social Services Act that we've been waiting here for for three years from the government's pen, and at this point, we still don't have it here. And these are the proposals that need to be addressed, which affect families. And I've said that in the past. We've got about 900,000 people with health disabilities around here somewhere. Let's add family members to that. It's not a small group of residents. That is, if the government is dealing with the so-called sexy electoral groups today, I believe that disabled people should also be part of the government's portfolio of interests. Therefore, my dear colleagues, again please, let us discuss all the points that are proposed today. It is a wide range of people in this country who deserve support in this difficult time. And I am convinced that it is worth the time and effort that we have gathered here today, that time to use and actually discuss the problems. Thank you for your attention and please support the program for the KDU-ČSL club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u27	Good morning, honourable Members. I thank Mr Kaňkovský for his comments on behalf of the President of the KDU-ČSL. And before we continue with President Jurečka's speech, let me make an apology to the Prime Minister, Minister Karel Havlíček, from today's meeting, for reasons of work. Now, then, President Marian Jurečka, Prime Minister Jan Hamáček will prepare himself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I am just going to take the liberty here to add a little counterargument to what my fellow Member Aulická Jírovcová said, through you, Mr President. Madam, on 18 June this year, was it before the elections or was it not? It was before the election. An emergency meeting has been called. Were there any points on the House's agenda for a proper meeting? There were points that were on the agenda for a proper meeting. Yet this House and the voices of the Communists supported the approval of the extraordinary meeting programme, which focused mainly on drought issues, and we were able to discuss meaningfully a number of laws that were also government bills on that day. I had a very good feeling about this, and I was convinced that today, and given the fact that there are government bills at this meeting, we can find a consensus on this. In the same way, most of us - or most of us - are, like, half the MPs - have arrived, we are here. And I'm sorry it's a double standard here. On the one hand, there are arguments that did not apply in the case of a two-month-old event, it was possible to support it then, the extraordinary meeting initiated by the opposition, and today it wants to use the arguments completely differently, purposefully, and it will be said - because it is before the elections, because it is in the programme for a proper meeting. And you yourself know, and many of you sitting here, that some of these points are going to be very hard to get at in the next week and in the following Houses, and you're going to say this argument. So I'm just pretending that it's just not fair, and I'd like us to hold the same line then. Then don't say something else in purpose once, and now something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u29	Thank you, Mr Marian Jurečka. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček will now appear, and Minister Jana Maláčová will prepare herself. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u30	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear fellow Member, Madam Secretary, Madam Members, if you want the best argument against this meeting, then watch the speech of Vice-President Okamura. It's a classic case of how you can confuse everything, pears with apples, and accuse the government of everything, and then walk out the middle. At that speech by Vice-President Okamura, I appreciate the fact that this time, according to the structure, he clearly wrote it himself and that he did not copy the Slovak academic. But that's the only compliment, and from what was said, it's just - I can't leave it lying down, but I have to get back to you. We're taking money from firemen and cops. So I want to make it clear here that as long as I'm the Home Secretary, no one's gonna take anything from the fire department and the cops. On the contrary, we are trying to invest massively in technology, we are trying to invest massively in new buildings. Only yesterday I knocked on the foundation stone of the new fire station, we allocate new European money and we just don't give a shit about our security forces because we appreciate what they do for the Czech Republic. Czech Post. The Czech Post until Minister Hamáček came and supported this House pushed through the amendment of the law, which finally solved the problem when the Czech Post paid for the services ordered by the State from its commercial area, and therefore logically fell into loss, so until we solved it, the problem was here. And comparing the economic performances of the Czech Post with only commercial entities is unfair, because the post office simply paid hundreds of millions every year - and then over a billion - for what the state ordered with it. We have modified this and I believe that we will get český mail in shape very quickly because it will no longer compete on the market at a disadvantage. As far as salaries are concerned. I know, of course, that postmen have very low salaries. That's why we added ten percent last year, and if economically possible, we will continue to give them more. But there is simply some economic reality and unfortunately, even the settlement for the český Post must be notified to the European Commission, it is delayed. However, as soon as the money comes, the mail will basically be in better shape than it was in the past days. So I just can't let some of the charges lie and slap them in the water right now. I'll put aside a comparison of Germany's will to undo my colonial past with Namibia's postwar settlement, but that's more appropriate in the history class, not in the Chamber of Deputies meeting. So my colleague Okamura classically showed what such an extraordinary meeting is for. We're ready to discuss these points at the meeting, which starts next week. Let's talk about it, but unfortunately my concerns, which I shared with the press today, have come true, and it has been a show again, at least in the SPD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u31	I thank the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová will now perform. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will underline what the first Vice-President of the Government of Hamáček said. We take all these problems, which are proposed here, very seriously, and you know that we are prepared for all the situations that have been described here. And once again, let me stress that basically all the points will be discussed at that proper meeting next week. However, allow me to comment on some of the things that have fallen in this discussion. I think that at this point in time from the resort or from the point of view of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs there are some of the following things. First, how social services are prepared for the current epidemiological situation. Second, how families with children are prepared with regard to the infirmary for what is going on these weeks. Third, how we help the disabled. This falls under the subject of social services. How it looks with the cursarbeit, with the employment package, how we help singles and then, of course, medical review service, a very urgent problem. I'll take it one at a time. [[11.40 hours]] Social services. I have written here 17 steps in total, which we have taken in the last two weeks for social services. I think the most important thing is to communicate, give clear instructions and monitor the situation. For this morning we have 11 social services facilities in the Czech Republic, where the contagion is a covidem. It develops every day. However, for this morning it was 11 facilities where we have 99 clients and 60 employees infected. We work very well with the Ministry of Health, we are connected to their databases. This means that we have information about each other's contagion basically online. So 11 devices, 99 infected clients and 60 employees. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is newly preparing all the guidelines on social services in two versions. The one version is brief, understandable, short. And the other one for those who need it very closely and technically, so it's actually, let's say, official, in detail, it usually has ten, fifteen, twenty pages. So each of the instructions we're preparing is shown in two versions of A4, then in detail it's technically, let everyone choose. All things, all the instructions the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs gives are posted on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, we send them by e-mail to every provider, because we have a database of all providers. At the same time, we communicate with the Association of Social Services Providers, with trade unions and, of course, with the regions responsible for their social services. That means we're really using all the channels. Yesterday, with the Ministry of Health, we completed the guidelines for social services following the so-called. traffic light. Once again made in two versions. Short and brief and then very detailed. And the point is not to have any horizontal measures, but to respond to the situation in each individual region. Yesterday, I asked the Minister of Health to re-enter the spring, summer system of employee testing. I think this is an extremely important matter for the psychological well-being of employees. I visited dozens of facilities over the summer. People who work in social services have often talked about the fact that if they don't feel like they only have small headaches, they find it very difficult to go to work because they have no idea if they are infected or if they are threatening their clients. So this general testing of employees on at least the same level as in the summer is, I think, crucial and desirable at this point. At the same time, I asked for clear plans for influenza vaccination at this time. You know the vaccine time for the flu is October, November of this year. We have asked the Ministry of Health for an opinion on whether it should not be for the most vulnerable population already in September and how to proceed with the hundreds of thousands, in fact, of people who belong to the most vulnerable population. We asked the regions at the beginning of this week to prepare emergency plans for a possible staff failure. Once again, the flu epidemic may complicate the situation with regard to how to provide care in all social services facilities. And I've also asked the Minister of Health to possibly return to the discussion about whether to instruct the regions how to provide emergency beds in case of multiple infected clients. You know, during the emergency situation, we had 60 emergency beds allocated to 100,000 residents. At the same time, I think that many social services facilities have actually done this, that we should give a clear message to all social services to create a supply of personal protective equipment for at least a month, because I communicate with individual devices daily, so I know that the problem is often in the funds. You know that we have announced a call for financing the operation of social services in connection with covid. We're starting to pay the money. It is crucial especially for those facilities where a non-profit organisation is the founder. And we will proceed in the coming days to announce another, second challenge, so that the increased costs associated with the coronation do not really prevent everyone from being equipped with personal protective equipment. Since these are often thousands or hundreds of thousands of services, at the beginning of this week we have also renewed the form on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, where we are actually appealing to individual social services that do not have enough personal protective equipment to tell us, and we will possibly help to secure them through the regions. In the spring of this year, if it failed to resolve it within 24 hours, I called individual captains and asked them for assistance. Probably the biggest or most important achievement of the past few months in social services, as I perceived from the field, was the payment of record fees for employees in social services for how well they handled the first wave of coronation crisis. You know the rewards were in the tens of thousands. We paid almost three billion. Crowns. I think it's very motivated all employees and workers. They felt financially, not only verbally appreciated for the great work they did, and I thank them again for it. Yesterday, after a few months, we restored the habit that we had at the time of the emergency, and that every week...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u33	I understand, Madam Secretary. I'll ask the House for peace. And I am convinced, because the Minister is the last person to sign up for the debate so far, that you will let her finish her speech in a dignified environment. Thank you, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u34	Thank you, Mr President. This means that every week we have an hourly videoconference with thirty of the biggest social services players. They are not only the largest providers, but they are also representatives of trade unions, regions, representatives of self-government, meaning municipalities, especially the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Association of Local Authorities. But they're also representatives of senior organizations. This method of communication on a weekly basis has proved very useful, because there is really immediate feedback, what is still to be done, what is missing, what is to be changed, what is to be improved, or what works very well. So, for the first time in a few weeks, we had this video conference again yesterday, and the feedback is good. I also try to visit individual social services facilities several times a week - now, given my personal situation, I myself was voluntarily in isolation, so we continued to communicate with individual social services through videoconferencing. This means that, in addition to the Wednesday format, I also communicate several times a week with employees or the management of individual social services. Yesterday it was Charity Uherský Brod. And it has also worked very well for us, because the genuine feedback, what individual providers have problems, what they need, what works, what doesn't work, is simply priceless. We have also introduced this week because you know that social services have several thousand, at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs hotline, which is constantly functional for any questions, explanation, feedback, so that everyone really has all the information. It's very important, it's well used. And again the best than, for example, through long e-mails explaining some things is to make a two-, three-minute phone call, and it's clear to everyone how to proceed. So I'd sum it up. On a daily basis we monitor the situation in social services, we cooperate very well with the statistics of the Ministry of Health, we communicate. Everyone has clear instructions on how to proceed. And despite all possible channels, everything is sent by e-mail, we have weekly meetings with the main stakeholders, we have good feedback from the field, we have established a hotline. And whatever the Department of Labour and Social Affairs has published, it's in two versions, in the detailed and understandable one. And then, of course, it's also posted on the MPSV website. And I think social services are in this situation. We don't want to take any measures, we don't want to repeat the situation this spring. [[11.50 hours]] One more piece of information. We had in August, I think it was in mid-August, a very interesting round table, where, at the request of Director Lorman of Life 90, we very sincerely said what had been done with regard to the functioning of social services during the emergency situation and what had failed. I think it was very beneficial for everyone. One crucial thing I'm carrying out from that round table a month ago - it's really important to implement all measures with regard to two aspects. It is not only the protection of hygiene or epidemiological, but the impact on mental well-being in terms of social isolation or the impact of social isolation of all clients must always be taken into account. I think that this is extremely resonating in social services, which means that we really need to take care of both of these aspects. As much as we're ready for social services. I'll be glad for all the suggestions. If you, honourable Members, have anything to say about this, we will be pleased. Alternatively, if you're interested, we'll involve you in all communications. As far as the infirmary is concerned, social democracy has been saying since August that there is a need to have a clear plan for some crisis care center with regard to what is going on in schools. The Department of Labour and Social Affairs has it ready for months. If the coalition partner agrees, we will immediately send it into the legislative process. We think it's good to be ready in time, in advance. As far as the disabled are concerned, because it has been very resonating here, I do not think that we should forget about the 700,000 disabled in terms of protective equipment, so I will also ask the government to distribute personal protective equipment for the 700,000 disabled, so that even this risk group is properly protected by the state. In recent days, we have also discussed the setting of the cursarbeit very closely with the government. I think we're very close to a deal. I am pleased that such a key law, which has been being prepared in Germany for many years, has been managed at the level of the government coalition, or has almost mastered at the level of the government coalition, in the order of several weeks. We also have the support of tripartite. You know that the negotiations have been very intense, especially since May, June, culminated in July, and I strongly hope that next week we will send a legislative proposal to the House for cursarbeit so that it can be launched from 1. 11. My ambition is for cursarbeit to be an even better program than Antivirus. You know the Antivirus worked perfectly, saved several hundred thousand jobs. It is evaluated not only by the business sphere as the best anti-crisis programme. My ambition is for cursarbeit to be even better than Antivirus. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs also finishes the so-called employment package following the Kursarbeit programme, which will respond to the current situation in the labour market. Here I would like to say that the regulation of employment agencies is a priority for us, as well as the protection of people aged 50+. We have structural unemployment in the Czech Republic despite the very good numbers, and people who lost their jobs after 50 have it very difficult on the labour market, it is often impossible to find a new job. This is precisely the objective of the employment package, the risk groups in the labour market to protect, help them find jobs again, get out of various precarried working conditions. This is also a matter that is discussed at tripartite level, and in October we will present it. We had a lot of debates here about what we did for the singles. I would like to point out that only this year we implemented this - social democracy took this as one of the conditions for joining the government - an increase in the parental contribution to 300 000. It is aimed at all families with children, but it also helps single parents. You know, in the spring of this year, we had a very high-standard infirmary, almost 100 percent of the net income. This was designed in particular with regard to single families. You know, in the spring of this year, in a few days, we've transformed the so-called covideo's extraordinary emergency aid on a daily basis. The Department of Labour and Social Affairs publishes statistics on its website on the so-called covide mop, and personally I am most pleased that yesterday on the Social Committee, when we were discussing replacement maintenance, the government's proposal for replacement maintenance was supported by 15 votes out of 16, which means that we have a very good government proposal that has support across the political spectrum, and I appreciate it very much because the replacement maintenance will really be system aid to all single parents who are failing to enforce law enforcement and when one parent does not pay maintenance on his child or even children. I note that because an extraordinary meeting is held today, the constitutionally-legal committee has been abolished, and therefore the discussion of the replacement maintenance will be delayed again, so if an extraordinary meeting is not held today, we will move on in the alternative maintenance. I have often heard here about the situation in the medical assessment service. I agree with that. Indeed, medical evaluation is a very difficult thing, because we have few doctors. It's a system problem. I am very pleased that today, Mr Běhounek presented his parliamentary proposal for the reform of the medical assessment service, which Mr Běhounek prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The main objective of this bill is to strengthen the LPS on a new profession, the so-called profession of a nonmedical health professional, who will be able to dismantle a doctor, because the problem of the LPS is that we have few doctors and they are overwhelmed by work. This means that this new profession will decoy our experts in the LPS and will prepare a review file tops. This means, in the case of non-insurable benefits, they will presume a medical condition for the care allowance, a special aid allowance card. The review will always be that way. This means that today, in cooperation with Mr Běhounek and various medical experts, we have prepared this bill and I firmly hope that we will discuss it soon. I have been instructed not to comment on pension reform anymore, that there will be room for this in the coming weeks, but the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is working very honestly on this. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u35	Thank you, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. That was the last one logged on to the agenda of the meeting of those who have priority rights. I still see a deputy at the KDU-ČSL Club, Vice-President of the Club. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u36	I'm very sorry, co-workers, colleagues. I'll really be very short. Thank you for the social tour of Minister Maláčová. However, if we are to be correct, the solution to the medical assessment service of the said law is only one part. In order to be correct, KDU-ČSL and the other co-president of the amendment, mentioned by the Minister and presented by Mr Běhounek as the main promoter, are a member of the Vít Kaňkovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-10-ps2017-059-01-000-000.u37	I thank Mr Kaňkovský for his comments. I have no other application for a debate. I recall again that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies of the House shall decide only on the agenda set out in the application. No amendment or addition to the programme can be proposed, nor can the approved programme be extended. We have recorded the individual statements of those who have priority rights. We will now vote on the whole proposal for the 59th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll check you out first and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will decide on the 59th session of the Chamber of Deputies in the vote number 2 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 2, from 98 in favour of 45, against 1. The proposal was not adopted, the agenda was not approved. Thank you all for coming. I wish you a good lunch and meet you on Tuesday at a proper meeting convened by the Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies.
