ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u1	510. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2021 /German press 1067/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová will make the proposal. I'll ask the Vice-President to take the floor. At the same time, I'll ask for peace in the hall. We are in half the format, please allow a dignified atmosphere and performance. Well, you have your word. One more time, please, calm down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll wait... [[The president is ringing the bell to calm the room.]] Hello, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the draft State Budget Act 2021. The budget with the biggest deficit in history, but it is the biggest investment in the future development of our country after the covid. Unprecedented investment in the fastest possible development of all key areas of the economy of the Czech Republic and vitally important to our citizens...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the hall. If it's necessary for you to deal with something, go outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u4	Our economy, the standard of living of citizens, the question of survival of many in normal circumstances of viable companies stands and falls with how wise our budgetary policy will be and how much we can use it properly. When creating the budget and the medium-term outlook, we thought, above all, that their form will determine the development of our economy in the coming years. I am not hiding the ambition of the budget presented to play the most active role in helping our economy back to growth. And I present this budget to you with humility and confidence that we all care about how it will look next year and how successful we will be. Of course, the deficit presented is several times the numbers we were used to in the pre-pandemic period. But when, other than in a period of the strongest economic downturn in our country's modern history, is it necessary to implement expansionary policy to the extent that current legislation and, of course, debt position enable us to do so? Right now we want to help the most important areas of our economy and groups of citizens. Businessmen. Extremely important to all of us and the daily course of our country. Each of us has a businessman in our neighborhood who's been prevented from making money. A restaurant whose operator is in these weeks depending on a few noon or weekend sales through the window. And that's even better. They need the help they need. Staff. Some employees have been released in connection with pandemics, looking for new jobs, and have become temporary clients of the social system. We have to take care of them. Parents. Many of them had to stay home with their children because they closed schools for health reasons. We're here with them, too. Thousands of ordinary people have an acute liquidity shortage problem and need a guaranteed loan, tax deferral, or payment waiting. We know and we will. These guys all need help. They need it now. They need it on a robust scale. Yes, it costs the state budget hundreds of billions. At the end of October 2020 equal to 224; 224 billion, which we pumped into the economy in relation to Coronavirus only this year. That is precisely why I will enter history as Secretary of Finance, during whose term of office one of the greatest deficits in our country's history has been achieved. I can live with that. But what I couldn't live with is that we would leave our citizens in the lurch of this greatest health and economic crisis. That's never happened since I've been Secretary of Finance, and it's never gonna happen, you have my word on that. This deficit is an investment in our country's fastest development in 2021. And whatever it takes would mean a significant slowdown in the possibility of developing an entire economy. That's why we invest in the future after the covid and that's why we invest so massively. [[9.20 hours]] Before going to the priorities of the proposal itself, I would like to assure you that we really listen very carefully to the views of the world's most respected macroeconomic workplaces, such as the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the International Monetary Fund or the World Bank. And they agree that there is currently nothing but fiscal expansion, and they warn against the premature tightening of belts that could cause long-term stagnation or economic recession. What are they saying? In this context, I can first mention, for example, the President of the European Central Bank, Christine Lagarde, who said in her recent interview with Le Monde: We consider it essential that the fiscal safety nets that governments have introduced in this crisis are not removed too soon. In a very similar vein, Vítor Gaspar, director of the International Monetary Fund's fiscal policy section, expressed himself: There is a risk of early withdrawal of financial support and policy makers who have the option would do well to do so very slowly and to maintain financial support until economic recovery stands on solid foundations. His colleague Alfréd Kammer, also from the International Monetary Fund, an organization whose main mission is to oversee the financial stability of individual countries, said: Politicians must do their utmost to suppress the pandemic and its economic damage, and not prematurely withdraw support to avoid repeating the error of the global financial crisis. That is why strong support must be maintained, as the pandemic is deepening and the recovery is still emerging and fragile. Once the public resources released for the temporary support of people and companies fulfil their role, they should be converted into public investment that will create a more resilient, smarter, greener and inclusive economy in the future. And so I could go on for a really long time. But what is even more conclusive than the claims of independent authorities are figures. When we presented amendments to the state budget in spring and summer for this year, we could only rely on our deep belief that saving business, business, demand and living standards of our citizens is the only possible, and therefore without a doubt the right step. With this conviction, I have faced sharp criticisms of a logically high deficit. I've heard that the government's out of control, and I've faced various opinions that we're doing a campaign to vote, that the budget is out of reality. And I confess that I was extremely looking forward to international comparisons. An independent international comparison of how individual countries, of course with regard to the size of their economies, responded to the pandemic. The international comparisons came in October and the first week of November of this year. First from the International Monetary Fund, then from Eurostat and at the beginning of this month from the European Commission. So facts: the Czech Republic is one of the most sensitive countries in the European Union! The comparison made by Eurostat confirmed that our public finances remain among the best in the EU. Data on estimated balances and debt for the whole of 2020 provided by each Member State to the European Statistical Office and subsequently notified by Eurostat show that, even at the end of the year, we remain fourth in the Union in terms of debt levels, beyond Estonia, Luxembourg and Bulgaria. In terms of public finance deficits, only five countries - Denmark, Cyprus, Bulgaria, Sweden and Germany - expect better numbers. While the Czech Republic is counting on a deficit of 6.4 percent of GDP, many countries are counting on a double-digit deficit. Our excellent position is confirmed not only by the October Eurostat but by the November figures of the European Commission. According to its latest forecast, the Czech public finances with their balance minus 6.2 percent will be ranked as the eighth best place in the Union at the end of this year and, as far as 2021 is concerned, we will be in a great fifth place behind Estonia, Bulgaria, Luxembourg and Sweden. Does this, then, mean - with criticisms of our fiscal policy - that the whole of Europe is campaigning for elections? That we're actually making almost the weakest election campaign out of all countries? That he's out of the reality of all 27 Member States? On all sides of the world from us? I don't think so. And I'd say even those who criticize us don't think so. It's a very short-sighted criticism. On the contrary, it is confirmed that our economy is strong, that the state of our public finances is good, the banking sector is extremely healthy, the budgets of self-governments have unprecedented reserves, and health insurance companies are also doing great. We have a pillow that allows us to ease the wounds of the domestic economy. It is thanks to this pillow that we belong and will continue to be in international competition between sought-after and respected credit lenders who will not lose control of the sustainability of their public finances and find themselves in a debt trap. It's not our wishes, it's our facts. This is confirmed by the most eligible ones, namely our creditors, through the low interest they count as purchased bonds. This is also confirmed by credit rating agencies. Specifically, the JCR Japanese rating agency confirmed the evaluation of the Czech Republic for long-term liabilities in both domestic and foreign currency on Thursday last week. In particular, the Agency appreciated the long-term prudent fiscal policy of government and the low debt of the government sector. The assessment outlook remains stable. Standard & Poor's confirmed us on Friday 30 October with an excellent evaluation of AA for domestic liabilities and AA- for foreign liabilities, also with a stable outlook. In its assessment, it appreciated a long-term low level of debt, a stable banking system or high foreign exchange reserves. According to Fitch's comment from Wednesday last week, the draft budget of the Czech Republic for 2021 shows fiscal consolidation and suggests that the country's debt will stabilize after 2021. It is clear that we do not stand badly with our budgetary policy. And that's why we have to keep doing it. That is why I am putting forward a budget whose main objective is to use a low level of our debt to implement measures to help maintain and improve the living standards of the population, to mitigate the negative effects of pandemics on the most affected groups and to restore strong economic growth as quickly as possible through record-breaking investments. The state budget will be managed with revenue of 1,488.3 billion. CZK 1,808.3 billion. CZK 320 billion, deficit. CZK and record investment for 186,6 billion. Kč. In addition to the historically highest allocation for investments in physical infrastructure projects and the development of digitalisation, it increases the resources for teachers' salaries, significantly strengthens health and does not forget pensioners. Total pension expenditure increases by 29.5 billion year on year. CZK, which means increasing the average old-age pension by CZK 839, i.e. by 5,8%. We're paying off the debts of past governments. Thanks to an increase in the state's payment to public health insurance, the health system will receive 52.6 billion. CZK more. I believe we agree that nothing is more important than the health of the population. We're increasing capital spending by 40 billion. Kč. This is the money that will be returned to us in the future, as well as an increase in expenditure on education by almost 20 billion. CZK, where most of them account for an increase in the salaries of educators. We're cutting taxes. We reduce taxes and introduce a whole range of anti-crisis tax measures to help companies and citizens bridge a difficult period with as little pain as possible. In short, we are fulfilling all the priorities behind which this government has long stood. And we certainly don't forget our savings. However, the level of austerity measures amounting to 5% of the operating costs of the State was established in such a way as not to cause adverse interventions in the state's capacity, public services and economic expectations. [[9.30 hours]] We're counting on slow consolidation. We want to return to standard conditions without creating a recession. Only in this way will we reduce the negative impact on the standard of living and ensure the convergence of the economy. We are aware that a more self-decisive consolidation with repeated recessions in the back simply cannot achieve its objectives. We are thus offering a completely different approach to consolidation of public finances than in the past decade. That was when practically the second year after the recession began to cut and taxes increased to reduce the public deficit as quickly as possible. Indeed, some opposition leaders or, for example, the National Budget Board would like to recommend the same medicine today. However, I am of the opinion that we should learn from past mistakes, not repeat them. Plus, today's situation is different. It was then a recession imported from abroad as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. It is now a pandemic of disease COVID-19 causing an economic recession, and the disease and recession were fully manifested in the Czech Republic as well. At the same time, this year's decline in the economy is estimated to be much more pronounced and the degree of uncertainty affecting economic behaviour and decision making is incomparably higher. In the consolidation strategy, we are counting specifically on not valorising operational expenditure, which means that it will actually fall. We are also counting on freezing the salaries of civil servants and civil servants. And I would really like to see a freeze on the salaries of constitutional officials in the Chamber of Deputies. Capital expenditure without EU funds and financial mechanisms will also fall, as they will gradually be supplemented by resources from the new EU instruments. Ladies and gentlemen, right now is the time to use the fiscal space that we have created in recent years by budgetary responsibility. If I can borrow the recent parallel of German Chancellor Angela Merkelová, then let's build a bridge through which we will cross this turbulent period into more peaceful times. Yes, not only Germany, but also the Czech Republic deserves such a bridge. And he needs it. The proposed draft budget is a pillar without which this bridge will not last. Please keep this in mind when making your decision. Thank you for your attention and please, by approving the state budget for next year, help our country to overcome the biggest test it faces in its modern history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u5	Thank you. To be predictable - or what will be the next step? We will give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá, President of the Budget Committee. The debate will then open and I have the applications from Vice-President Fiala, President Kalousek, with the club's opinion, Mr Onderka, and then Vice-President Okamura with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u6	Mr President, thank you for the floor, fellow Members, allow me to introduce you to the motion for a resolution adopted by the Committee on Budgets at its 46th meeting, and to adopt it as resolution number 463, which you have all received. It is a resolution on the first reading of the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2021, House Press 1067. Following the opening words of the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, the report and the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament I. recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2021 at first reading: "The Chamber of Deputies I. approves the basic data of the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2021 according to the House press 1067, which are: [[Next law]] A. The amount of revenue determined by the amount of CZK 1 488 336 029 790, the amount of expenditure determined by the amount of CZK 1 808 336 029 790, the difference between income and expenditure determined by the amount minus CZK 320 000 000 000, [[Balance]] B. Method of settlement of the balance by these financing items (a) increase in state financial assets accounts by 18 783 830 871 CZK, b) change of state debt by 301 216 169 129 CZK. C. Financial relations of the state budget to the budgets of the regions, with the exception of the capital city of Prague, namely contributions of a total amount of CZK 1,660 631 400, D. Financial relations of the state budget to the budgets of municipalities, with the exception of the capital city of Prague, in total in individual regions, namely contributions of a total amount of CZK 10 251 683 200, E. The financial relationship of the state budget to the budget of the capital city of Prague, namely the contribution of a total amount of CZK 1,210 478 100, F. The authorisation of the Minister of Finance pursuant to Section 4 of the Act and the authorisation of the Ministry of Finance to proceed in determining the amount of the contribution to the performance of the state administration to the regions in accordance with the procedure set out in Annex No. 5, to the capital of Prague in accordance with the procedure set out in Annex No. 7 and to each municipality in accordance with the procedure set out in Annex No. 8 of the law. II. notes that the draft state budget of the Czech Republic for 2021 (a) contains financial relations with the budget of the European Union, namely the expected revenue from the budget of the European Union amounting to CZK 156 747 379 625 and contributions to the budget of the European Union amounting to CZK 55 000 000 000, (b) determines the extent of the insurance capacity of the Export Guarantee and Insurance Company, a.s., amounting to CZK 330 000 000 000, (c) it contains in Annex No This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. III. commands to discuss the chapter and headings of the government draft state budget of the Czech Republic for 2021 as follows: Committee on Petitions: Chapter 304 - Office of the Government, 309 - Office of the Ombudsman, 343 - Office of Personal Data Protection, Budget Committee: Chapter 301 - Office of the President of the Republic, 302 - Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, 303 - Senate of Parliament, 312 - Ministry of Finance, 345 - Czech Statistical Office, 359 - Office of the National Budget Board, 396 - State Debt, 397 - Operation of State Financial Assets, 398 - General Treasury Audit Committee, 371 - Office for the Management of Political Parties and Political Movements and Chapter 381- Supreme Audit Office, European Affairs Committee: Chapter 398 - General Treasury Administration - Financial relations to the EU budget, the EEA, Norway and Switzerland excluding agricultural policy, including: General budgetary relations to the EU and financial mechanisms, state budget revenue - transfers to cover pre-financing, state budget expenditure - programmes and projects co-financed by the EU budget and the contribution of the EU's own resources from the State budget to the EU budget, [[See workbook B]] Economic Committee: Chapter 322 - Ministry of Industry and Trade, Chapter 327 - Ministry of Transport, 328 - Czech Telecommunications Office, 344 - Industrial Property Office, 349 - Energy Regulatory Office, 353 - Office for the Protection of Competition, 373 - Office for Access to Transport Infrastructure, 374 - Administration of State Material Reserves, 375 - State Office for Nuclear Safety Constitutional and Legal Committee: 336 - Ministry of Justice - part of the administrative and further summary of the whole chapter, 355 - Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, 358 - Constitutional Court, [[9.40 hours]] Defence Committee: Chapter 307 - Ministry of Defence, 308 - National Security Office, Security Committee: 305 - Security Information Service, 314 - Ministry of Interior, Part Security Fire Protection and Summary of the Whole Chapter, 336 - Ministry of Justice, Part Prison, 376 - General Inspection of Security Corps, 378 - National Cyber and Information Security Office, Social Policy Committee: Chapter 313 - Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Health Committee: Chapter 335 - Ministry of Health, Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports: Chapter 321 - Grant Agency of the Czech Republic, 333 - Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, 334 - Ministry of Culture, 361 - Academy of Sciences, 362 - National Sports Agency, 377 - Technological Agency of the Czech Republic, Election Committee: Chapter 372 - Radio and television broadcasting Council, Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development: Chapter 314 - Ministry of the Interior, Part Administrative, 317 - Ministry of Regional Development, Financial Relations to the budgets of local authorities, voluntary associations of municipalities and regional councils of cohesion regions, [[G-book]] Committee on the Environment: Chapter 315 - Ministry of the Environment, 348 - Czech Mining Authority, Foreign Committee: Chapter 306 - Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Agricultural Committee: Chapter 329 - the Ministry of Agriculture, the common agricultural policy, the link to the state budget, direct payments, equalisation of direct payments from national sources, support for rural development, measures of the common organisation of the market, Chapter 346 - the Czech office of survey and cadastral; IV. further instructs the medium-term outlook of the state budget of the Czech Republic for the years 2022 and 2023, the House's press 1068, to the Budget Committee; V. Recommends to the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies, in whose chapters the appropriations for the activities of non-profit and similar organisations are budgeted, to deal with the contributions to this activity.' II. empowers the Committee rapporteur to familiarise the House of Deputies with this resolution - which I have done. Furthermore, if there is no objection, if necessary, I will refer only to the wording of the budget committee resolution so that I do not have to repeat it all again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u7	Thank you. I am opening a debate in which Vice-President Petr Fiala is the first with priority rights. I just forgot to say that before the meeting, the President of the Czech Republic signed up with priority rights at 10.30. But I'm sure we can do that. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we will certainly be able to manage my speech by 10:30. I don't suppose I should be talking for that long, but I'm sure there are some important things I want to say. And I'm going to start by saying, of course, that no one envys the government's task of drawing up the budget for 2021, putting it together in the midst of an epidemic, damaged economies, all the problems that the pandemic brings. That is a great task, a great challenge and a test, and I am aware of that. At the same time, of course, before this test, a government was not faced with this challenge, which would somehow be particularly tired of demanding reforms, from fiscal efforts. No way. This challenge and test came after six and a half years from a budgetary point of view certainly a comfortable reign of the coalition YES and ČSSD. Each year, the coalition enjoyed high economic growth and, with them, about a hundred billion transfers from taxpayers' pockets to the finance minister's administration and the state budget. And after these six and a half years, in the winter of this year - and that's important - it was before the pandemic, it was before all we were facing, it was still in those comfortable times - public finances began to fall apart. Let's remember that. The February budget deficit was 27.4 billion. CZK, i.e. almost three quarters of the 40 billion planned all year round. kroner deficit. And it all came to this - and again, without pandemics, in good times - that in the first quarter of this year, the government would actually have consumed the year-round deficit that it planned. So if the pandemic hadn't come, in these months, no doubt everyone in our country would have seen that the government behaved unreasonablely, irresponsiblely, with regard to the budget, that it ignored the recommendations and warnings of the opposition, but also, for example, the Supreme Audit Office and other bodies that pointed out the budgetary problems that pointed out that the feast was slowly ending and that it was going to be very little or nothing. But things have turned out differently, we all know that. This situation seems to have been wiped out by the pandemic, and the government has been given the opportunity to start a new way, to start over, to stand up for it more wisely. No one would say the government has it easy, I'm not saying it either, but anyone would admit that a different approach, at least a wiser approach, tried. And they say failure is an opportunity to start over, this time a little bit wiser, it's attributed to Ford Henry. But here we see no more sensible or wiser approach. This is not a wiser budget policy. This is the maintenance of the exchange rate change, but now the budget ship is rushing to the cliff, and what the government is offering here is more "let's continue in the feast, after us the flood, but it's going to turn out." And it's only gonna end badly. The government is planning a deficit next year, and it's been said here, we all know it, 320 billion. Crowns. This is much more, multiplely than in any year that followed the major global economic financial crisis of 2007 and 2008. And with the exception of this year, this year, 2020 there has been no deficit in the crisis, post-crisis period as planned by the government for next year. And that's not all. Look at this view for the next three years. That's what we have to count on, and that's what we have to think about. I'll just remind you. The next three years - 2021, 2022, 2023 - the government planned a debt of 826 billion. CZK, i.e. a lot more than three quarters of a trillion crowns, please, without this year's half-billion-dollar deficit. Without this year's. For the next three years, 826 trillion crowns. You hear it well, all of you, the House and the citizens. So if we get caught in the spring -- God forbid, no one wants it, but no one can rule it out -- maybe another weaker wave of coronavirus, so what happens? In the next three years, according to this government, we will make a deficit of CZK 1 trillion. I'm asking the government why it doesn't suggest a deficit for this year, in quotation marks only, of 200 billion. Crowns. And I didn't make up the number, or I made it up the same way the government made up 320 billion. crowns of debt. The 200 billion. The National Budget Board may recommend this. Is there any reason to lower the deficit? Well, of course they are. And that's going to take a deficit this year. The government probably won't run out that half a trillion this year, 500 billion of them. The debt she planned and approved by the House - despite our disapproval - that is what I recall. On that note, the Minister said there is no point in making any macroeconomic predictions. [[9.50 hours]] So the deficit for this year is actually unrealistic, it's some number for next year, there's no point in making macroeconomic predictions, so no one can blame us, no one can blame us for considering this budget, that it's like when someone boils it out of the water, that it doesn't correspond to economic reality at all. And that's not all, of course. The state budget does not count on the expenses we have on the table proposed by the government itself in a strange way. We will be dealing with the basic parameters of the budget here, and we will soon approve, about next week we will start to deal with it, a tax package that brings really serious changes to the state budget next year if it is approved. And again, I'm reminding you of the absurdity, and it's just testifying to a responsible or irresponsible approach. In this tax package comes the Prime Minister's amendment, with another amendment from the First Vice-President of the Government, and those amendments, if the Prime Minister's amendment passes, have huge implications for the state budget. I understand that the result of the tax package negotiations is not contained in the budget right now, but I ask: Is there a reserve for this? Does that count for anything? Is this a responsible policy? Is there a spare? Or doesn't it matter? It doesn't matter, because the 320 billion number itself has no weight and no support in reality. I'm afraid that's the right answer. It doesn't support reality, it's just a piece of paper, which is why it doesn't really matter to the government. I also consider it irresponsible, actually to some extent alibiistic, that the government only works with an optimistic scenario, with the only possible optimistic scenario. The pandemic means the shock of supply, demand, what's happening right now, it's a one-time thing, it'll pass. And the government expects everything to go well. Well, I wish it was, we're all gonna do everything we can to make things go well. But in that budget, even though there's over three quarters of a trillion deficits in the next three years, there doesn't seem to be any margin for it to be worse if we were to face some recurrence of pandemics. That is not what this budget contains, and despite the huge deficit it has, you can answer for yourself the question of whether this is a wise approach, whether this is a wise policy when we vote on it. If you find something wise, sensible in this proposal, something that balances out that three-quarters of a trillion new debt over the next three years, where it will show positive, where there is an opportunity in the draft budget, some principle of economic recovery. I don't see him there. Let's look at some specific things. Who invented such an important thing as affordable or affordable pulmonary fans during the first wave of crisis? Who was that? They were Czech scientists. It was Czech research. But in the research budget, the government added only CZK 46.8 billion to just 0.9, less than 1 billion. That's not support. This, of course, is not support, and this shows the commitment of the government in this matter, as it really means with the research budget. We have said many times that research and investment in research, in research infrastructure are extremely important for the Czech Republic, for the future, for our economy, for our success, and we are ready to put much more into research when we are in government. This year we have presented our specific plan, which says that 1 percent of GDP should go into research, to education 5% of GDP. The government's budget doesn't answer that, yet investment in research is something that is clearly paid off. Or tell me when you're looking at the budget, where and how the government wants to save on the state's operation. Is that really the 5 percent savings on the operation of the state our meta? Is that what the government is supposed to do when the economy gets into trouble and when it is necessary to save not on citizens, but on the operation of the state? A year and a half ago, or at the beginning of this year, we heard from the government that the government was promising to save 10 percent on operation. That was when the budget revenue was still high and there were no problems. Now would be a good time, but nothing happened. Nothing happened in those good times, and nothing's happening now. 5 per cent is not enough, 10 per cent would at least be a promise fulfilled. But it's not enough either. We have long since come up with a proposal for an anti-bureaucratic revolution that envisages abolishing 20 percent of the laws, decrees, controls. That is what we promised, and we will do that after the election, and that will be significant savings in the operating costs of the state. Or another example. Do you remember how the government repeatedly said that it wanted to invest in this crisis? Have we heard anything about where and where we invested in this year's crisis? I didn't hear anything like that, or I don't see anything like it, but I do remember that that was the main reason the government asked for 200, 300 and, finally, 500 billion deficits. We're gonna invest, we're gonna invest in this crisis -- the Prime Minister said it, she said it literally in every news every hour, we all heard it. So I'm asking - where are the results? And how does the draft budget fit that? Is that really gonna rip us out of that $40 billion extra investment? pánbůh at least pay for it, at least there's an increase in investment. But this isn't about investing in an economic crisis. It's the same thing we've been listening to for years in a row: investment, investment, we're going to invest, we're going to build - but the result isn't there. Unlike the government, we would actually invest. For us, the roads, the highways, the express trains wouldn't be just something written on paper or in the Prime Minister's book. We promised, and I think it's right, we'll keep it, put 3% of GDP on the infrastructure. It's not just a promise, it's a thing that when we're in government, it becomes reality. But it would need to become a reality right now, so that the government that talks about wanting to invest in the crisis really doesn't put the necessary funds into the budget for investment and prepares the investments, but that is what you will find in this budget, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the government, I consider that trillion crowns, or more than a trillion crowns, to which the government wants to owe us this year and in those three subsequent years, absolutely unacceptable, unaccountable, as an expression of helplessness. There is nothing in that budget to suggest that the government really wants to invest in a good future. There are no key reforms, there is no indication of anything that should really revive the economy, a sign that the government realizes that it is necessary to save on the state, but it is not possible to save on citizens. There is nothing there that promises that if we all get in debt, that if we all accept this high state budget deficit - and that is the debt of every citizen who will pay back in the future - it will pay off, that it will help people, that it will start the economy, that it will simply help citizens, whether they are employees or entrepreneurs. You won't find anything like that in that budget. I consider the draft budget to be an expression of what the government is doing, or what kind of government is in recent years or in the last year - clueless, resigned and, in fact, without any idea of what to do. And instead of turning the government here into a budget failure into an opportunity, it started again, wiser, put a reasonable budget, so the budget that we have here on the table can be expressed by the flood's motto. Ladies and gentlemen, for these reasons, the Civil Democratic Party will not vote and we will do everything in our power to put this right in the next few years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u9	Thank you, too. The President Kalousek shall speak with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has quoted international authorities and their general recommendations on expansionary fiscal policy. It is a great pity that it did not quote any domestic authority that would support the government's proposed draft budget. She couldn't quote her because there's no such thing. Neither the National Budget Board nor independent economists support this proposal in the government, but warn and warn against the gradual collapse of public budgets, which unfortunately the government is implementing under its fiscal policy. The Minister said here, essentially quoting that the government will be managing with income of 1 beat in the next year. 488.3 billion. Crowns. We all know how we are here, including the government, including the Minister, that this revenue will not be managed by the government, because it simply will not be. This estimate of revenue is based on the scenario that the economy will decline by only 6.6 percent this year, and a growth of 3.9 % is expected in this scenario next year. It is evident that the decline in the economy this year will be much greater than 6.6 percent, at least 8%. Some scenarios estimate up to 10 per cent. Growth in the next year 3.9 goes beyond what can be expected by its optimism. How are we supposed to comment on a budget that is not de facto a budget because it is completely outside the current economic reality? It's just not gonna be the way we're supposed to be doing it and how we're gonna vote on it. We're just gonna vote on numbers that don't apply, and the government knows that right now. I don't see the slightest point. I don't want to blame the government for her September predictions being out of date, of course, but what's the point of putting a budget on an uncurrent prediction? I believe that if we rework this into current economic data, we will be threatened with a 30-day commission, but a 30-day commission with the clear will of the House sometime at the end of January to approve the budget as a significantly smaller problem than entering a new year with a budget that is not true and which is completely outside the economic reality. Therefore, I would like to propose a resolution: The Chamber of Deputies shall return the draft state budget to the Government for completion with the following recommendation: 1. revenue adapts to economic reality; 2. Expenditure adjust the fact that the coronavirus crisis will continue. Term - 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u11	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue. Mr Kalousek's procedural proposal has been recorded and Mr Roman Onderka will now speak with the opinion of the Social Democracy Club. He's not present. It's a priority right - but I can't do that, Minister, unless you're authorized to present a proposal to the club for your colleague Onderka. Here I have the priority right of Vice-President Okamura and Minister Maláčová. So, Minister Maláčová - because I will interrupt the hearing in about 15 minutes - so, Madam Secretary. If you don't, you're giving up your priority right, the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u12	Thank you. Hello, I'm sorry for a little bit here, but I see that Mr Onderka is not here, and I would quite like to respond to what we've heard here, because I was impressed when my previous speaker said that the Minister of Finance was merely lashing out with foreign authorities who are recommending an expansionary fiscal policy in the world in response to the pandemic crisis, and that she did not name any of those Czech economists. So I would like to say that I think that it is not so difficult to find Czech economists who today recommend expansionary fiscal policy. I'll tell you - I'll just think of it, unprepared - Jan Švejnar, Milan Matějka, and I could name many more. It almost seems to me that every Czech economist who is in contact with the world debate, which is about how to respond to the pandemic crisis, actually confirms what Martin Volf says, what many leading economists say, that we have learned from the crisis in 2008-2009 and that we have seen for example. in the United States, in a clear way, how it responds to such a crisis, that fiscal expansion has paid off immensely to the United States, and that it has even made it out of the crisis faster than Europe, because it has financed far more spending for the state. And the result was that they didn't lose it, on the other hand, they got the money back from the taxes on the economy that started. And this is a lesson that I would almost dare to say is that today they share the whole world and everyone who's watching at least a little bit of it, so they accept it. Mr. Kalousek is just wrong. Indeed, there are many Czech economists who recommend this. I'm sorry I won't keep you here with a list of those who say so, and even say that's the only way to get out of this crisis effectively today. And no one today doubts that the Czech Government in 2009-2010, when it chose the policy of tightening the belts, or austere policy, as it was called around the world, has deepened the recession in this country. You see, we should at least respect some of the basic economic lessons and conclusions that are generally taken into account today. No one is questioning them except Mr Kalousek and Mr Fiala, who is willing to say that we are continuing the feast. That's the typical argument back ten years - we're not going to spend here, we have to tighten our belts because, as Mr. Petr Fiala said, he said even: we're going to continue in the feast, 320 billion, that's a lot more than we've had after all these years of 2008. Well, yes, yes, it is much more than they have allowed in politics, which - and this is a general consensus again - has extended the recession in the Czech Republic. The tightening of the belts just led to the fact that we had a lot more to do with it than we had to. Let somebody who got off here question my words. This is the consensus that it was wrong. So we can't learn from it? I understand the opposition's role, and I understand that he has the right to criticize it, and I take it all. But there's no way they're not taking into account the lesson we've learned here because of the 2008-2009 crisis, and it's not possible to repeat the old mistakes like that. That's actually confusing to the public. This creates the impression that someone here is irresponsiblely indebting the state, but I think we should explain here to the public that this is not an irresponsible waste of money, that today is the way to get out of the crisis as quickly as possible. [[10.10 hours]] Let's leave aside that you have to treat the money you borrow well... the multiplier effects and all that. I'm not questioning that. And that would be a legitimate debate, if the opposition had said, we would have treated the deficit better, we think we need to invest in another way. I would consider this kind of debate to be completely justified, and I would not be angry at all, because I think it really makes sense to talk about the best way to handle the money. But the other thing here is absolutely cheap and flat-rate saying that someone just dares to indebt and that there's no reason for that. I'm just saying, there's a reason. Like a lot of countries are really going the way today, and remember, I've said it here once before, and I'm surprised to say it again, those countries that are borrowing today are far from having such a favourable situation in terms of the overall debt of the state, low unemployment as the Czech Republic. That means that's the way countries go today that don't even have as much money as we do. It's just that I'm not some bummer or a bummer. I'm not the kind of person who would downplay. But tonight, I just know, I can prove that this money, if it goes well, will allow the economy to go back to normal quickly. We saw it textbook in the crisis. We know that whoever did this got out faster. That's why we're doing this. So let's talk about the essentials. For example, let us discuss how to handle the money really well, how to invest it in such a way that it really comes back to us quickly. That would be a good debate. But the expressions that have been used here are simply inconvenient. It is simply unbearable to say that there are no Czech economists here in this country who would talk about the need for fiscal expansion. They're such economists. And there's a whole bunch of them, I'd say almost everyone who's court-martialed. Tell me more of a questioner, I'd say. Tell me an important Czech economist who spoke out against the fact that today the Czech Republic should borrow money, invest it well, so that it does not allow the whole economy to freeze, freeze the Czech industry and so on. Who said that? You wouldn't find this on the contrary. So it seems to me that this is a thing that we should be clear about. There could be a good debate over the budget here. I can imagine her. But I refuse this. And most importantly, it feels like he's lived here for years and hasn't learned anything. It just bothers me, like they don't really understand anything in the whole development of the last few years. And they repeat the old floscules. All that's missing is telling us that we need to save money. The main task is to save money, tighten your belts. Let's tell the public that whoever spends less will be the winner. And if we can force this to the public, I guarantee you that the economy will go to hell! If we tell people we're all gonna save money and stuff, you better not buy anything, so we can wrap it up. It'll be exactly what it was ten years ago. People get scared, they put everyone away, and the result is that the whole economy will go to hell! That means these rumors are actually dangerous! And you know why they're dangerous? Because we're such a saving nation. Like, I'm afraid that's true. And it's our advantage. In many ways, it is actually our strength that we have gentle citizens. But in a situation like this, it just becomes evil. I always tell the old joke that when it comes to the investigation, the communists were good at it. Gustáv Husák was already good at this, who said: "The gods will not let us communists owe this land." That was in the old days. That was something that worked politically in this country. Already in deep socialism! And today, the right just took over. She just repeats the old sentence of Husákův again: "We will not allow the good to owe this country." And it works, of course. People understand. Everyone thinks it's clever, except unfortunately, those who are in debt and have executions, that's also true. But much of the population in this country really thinks that in life one should be careful in lending money. And it works politically perfectly. And I think if it's ringing today, it's just populist. This is the abuse of something that today goes against what is a certain economic knowledge, which I think is the only thing that is possible when we want to cope with the crisis. So I think it's okay to have a debate here. It's okay to have a critical debate here. That's why we're here, and that's why the opposition is here. But I don't understand why the opposition is still having these mistakes that she should leave behind, why she didn't learn from what happened here ten years ago. Back then, the politicians... You know, today you're saying we're supposed to be helping culture. How did you help back then? Especially Minister Kalousek. What did cities and municipalities do? They couldn't do anything. The culture wasn't helping at all. Look how you suffocated her at the time when I was talking about my resort. To me, it seems hypocritical when you're actually saying in one word that it's supposed to be saved, and in another word, I'm learning what we're supposed to do financially. That's just what it sounds like here. Well, that's funny. This does not allow a solid debate. On the one hand, criticize the big budget and, on the other hand, criticise what we are responsible for. I have heard some of the right-wing representatives who have performed here and spoken almost with love about the role of the state in a way I had never imagined before. But on the other hand, if you're saying that the state is so important now, you can't also go into a deficit that is an economic necessity for the state to play the role it has in such a crisis. So let's make a deal. I'm not really defending the debate, I'm not defending criticism, but I'm preventing what seems to me a completely incomprehensible repetition of the old mistakes that we should have dealt with a long time ago. I don't know why Mr. Kalousek left, that he doesn't want to hear it. Yes, he's responsible for what was here ten years ago. And those were the huge losses that were caused. So he probably doesn't want to listen, and that's why he left and he doesn't listen. But it's just like that. They messed up back then. And fiscal expansion policy today is a world-renowned way to get out of this crisis. And consider another matter. You wonder what the budget for 2021 looks like. Well, we didn't know this wave was coming, and it's making things difficult again. That means, that's what he's forcing himself again to use the tool. So the fact that this instrument is coming again has a profound logic, and that we have to use it if we don't want to fail to be completely miserable economic operators who don't know that now the state is coming, now the state's role, now the state has to actually start to help, so that the economy doesn't go completely to a negative, so it just doesn't stop. This isn't complicated. And our job is to explain this to the public. It's good not to scare the public anymore. Don't scare them by indebting them all. I repeat the mechanism. In America, they borrowed the money, and they started the economy, and they got it back in taxes, and they got out of the crisis the fastest. So let everyone study it from the people who want to talk here. I mean, that's the lesson we learned and learned from all of us. Just not here. Mr. Kalousek hasn't learned his lesson. Mr. Fiala hasn't learned his lesson. In fact, they probably refuse to deal with it and act like it's not. That's what I don't understand. If you want to be a decent opposition, for God's sake, learn! Study what happened here in ten years! And don't repeat things that have survived that no one ever repeats in parliament! You're out of time on that one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u13	Thank you, Minister Zaorálek. I will allow one more factual remark by Vojtěch Munzar, because we are in the debate, and then I will interrupt the negotiations until the President of the Republic arrives. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u14	Thank you. I have listened fascinatingly to Mr. Zaorálek, the Minister of Culture, here on the right, and how he taught. Well, it would be very interesting, Minister, if your common government of social democracy and YES had not been living in economic growth in recent years, and although it has been managing economic growth, you have spent all the extra revenue you have received. You spent them in the crown! You spent all the reserves you had! You didn't create any. You haven't stabilized state finances! You haven't prepared state finances for any economic crisis at all. And that's why we're criticizing you for making the deficits so much bigger than they could be. In the long run, as a social democracy, a prominent politician of the first Republic said that the Social Democrats like to distribute pies that they haven't baked themselves, and they couldn't bake because they ate dough that wasn't enough yet. First, sweep before your own threshold before you lecture us! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u15	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact, and I will not let go of any further factual remarks or debate. I will adjourn the meeting until 10:28 p.m. when we meet back here, and at 10:30 p.m. the President of the Republic will come, who can speak at any time and is ready for his appearance under the Rules of Procedure. I'll meet you here at 10:28. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 10.21 to 10.28 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the technical break in the state budget negotiations has ended. Please take your seats and in a few moments the President of the Czech Republic will visit us Mr. Miloš Zeman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, the President of the Czech Republic will be visiting us in a moment and joining the Chamber of the President of the Czech Republic, Mr Miloš Zeman. [[It sounds fanfare from Libuše, the present rise, the President of the Republic comes to the Chamber of Commons and takes his place at the newsstand table. At the end of the day, the president sits down and invites the present to sit down as well.]] Dear guests, allow me to welcome the President of the Republic of Mr Miloš Zeman among us and give him this word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u17	Thank you. Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Prime Minister - if he is here. [[He's looking back at the government bench. Prime Minister Babiš: Here I am.]] Hello, honourable members of the Government and, above all, honourable fellow Members. I wanted to apologize in advance for sitting down like I did last October 28 because of a very intense pain in my legs. This happens, and as I have said several times, politics is not done with its feet, at least mostly not. I hope this position doesn't jeopardize the depth of my thoughts that I'm about to introduce you to. In any case, many times in the act of law, i.e. the Act on the State Budget, I would point out inconspicuously that in 1990 I was already elected chairman of the Federal Assembly Budget Committee and, as Prime Minister, I tried to reduce the budget in deficit, which led to a deficit of only CZK 10 billion without the losses of the Consolidation Agency. And I'm proud of that. Well, when I've praised myself enough, let me move on to more important things. I decided to split my speech into three parts. Firstly - the context of the state budget, secondly - the expenditure page, thirdly - the revenue page. As you may have noticed, in my previous speeches, I have not been overly concerned with the context of the state budget for completely understandable reasons. The context was essentially unchanging. We lived in a quiet, more or less short-term period with mild but lasting economic growth, an excellent low unemployment rate and a reduction in the share of government debt in gross domestic product. It has been a beautiful years and it is necessary to appreciate the government that has contributed its economic policy to these results. Then came something we probably didn't expect. There's been an epidemic. And I was threatened, by the way, when I read today that he's 300 dead in a day. Colleagues, that's a terrible number. Well, the epidemic had, as you know, two waves. Two waves so far. In the first wave, we had to abandon the economic growth adoration in order to save people's lives, which to a large extent succeeded. It was a success in the fight against pandemics, and we actually created a new situation, Friedrich Nietzsche calls it Umwertung aller Werte. Modern designation is a paradigm change. And I would use a much simpler name - to give up some of the stereotypes of our thinking. And that stereotype of economic growth superior to anything else was disproved in the first wave of pandemics by the lockdown. Well, there was a second wave, partly due to our carelessness, shared by the public, government and opposition, so if we want to blame anyone, we must blame everyone. But in this case, I'm not here to blame you. I just want to point out that while in the first wave of the pandemic, mostly the revenue structures of the state budget were hit by the lockdown, then the expenditure structure and the extreme deficit took place in the second wave. Well, that's basically the second change in paradigm. We all learned that debt was eating out of a bowl, the indebted economy was considered to be both inefficient and even repulsive, and suddenly it turned out that we had to wage a war on two fronts. First, the ongoing fight against pandemics, but since we can't afford a second lockdown, the economy would probably be down by now, then debt is necessary. Well, I understand perfectly that people who have been raised in a certain stereotype, I, for example, in the Rashinian investigation stereotype, allow me to turn away for a moment. Alois Rašín is said to have written in his office behind his desk: I will not give you anything. And whenever any delegation came, he just showed up for himself and the delegation left. In any case, I, too, have been raised in principle to eat debts out of a bowl, and I have always supported the investigation policy. And now, like the rest of you, I'm kind of derailed when I have to, out of conviction, approve a significant deficit, although, of course, I wish it hadn't been wasted. And to that point, some of my following remarks will be directed. [[10.40 hours]] So I'm moving on to part two, and that's the expenditure structure of the state budget. Its common denominator is spending saving the economy, i.e. above-standard spending. And I would very much like that, and so far, in most cases, it has been to be one-off, short-term spending, and when it is non-refundable subsidies, so that it is at least limited in time. This is why I supported, for example, five thousand crowns per pensioner, but with the fact that the next year will be normal valorisation of about eight hundred crowns a month. I also supported the 25th at the Ministry of Justice and various programs, which I will get to for a short time. Now, here we have a problem called abolishing a super-gross wage that interferes with the spending structure. Colleagues and colleagues, I don't know a stupider discussion than a debate on the abolition of a super-gross wage. Why? A supergross wage is nothing more than a method of calculating the income tax base. In one case, you add social and health insurance to this base, as you know, and in the other case, you don't. And you can choose. Just like when you want to measure temperature, you can choose Celsius, Fahrenheit, maybe even Réaumur if it's used somewhere. But in any case, the temperature won't change. And for what we call a super gross wage, it is only important to set a tax rate, which is the product of tax base, and the result of this product, of course, is tax revenue. That's all. I don't understand how it's possible for engineering, for measuring the income tax base, to have such a discussion here when the substance of the matter is somewhere completely different. The nature of the matter is, of course, at the level of the tax rate. Well, now there's a very difficult decision to make. I realize that a reduction in the income tax rate to 15% will affect the economy by about a loss of 90 billion a year. I realize that unlike the self-employed or pensioners and other categories, there has not been a certain remuneration, a solidarity payment towards employees. That is why I see a reasonable compromise here, namely that the reduction in this income tax will be limited in time for two years. I can't imagine the economy having to endure such a blow under the dive line in years to come. In addition, I would strongly recommend, speaking of expenditure structure, so I would strongly recommend the support of COVID III. COVID I or COVID II didn't do very well. COVID III seems quite reasonable and it is a combination of the influence of banks, the influence of the state and the influence of entrepreneurs. Because, of course, entrepreneurs have to accept, ask for a government-guaranteed loan with a low interest rate and a deferred maturity. I was pleased that COVID III, which originally started on the plane of operating loans, was now given its extension to investment loans. By the way, my eternal objection to the advocacy of consumption and investment is that investments do not have the right to vote, and therefore, especially before the elections, less attention is paid to them, but, on the other hand, investment in consumption can boost the growth of gross domestic product, but have nothing to do with growth in labour productivity, added value and competitiveness. In short, when you eat two hamburgers instead of one, gross domestic product will grow. But that's about it, not counting the growth of obesity. Of course, economics is far from safe and far from safe. And let us remind those who believe that investment in consumption will kick the economy in one other way, because they forget that there is also a thesauration channel, i.e. savings, and that, especially in the situation of overall uncertainty, in all income groups, people will prefer savings and making reserves for worse times. Remember that this spillover to savings can be dominant, it can be much stronger than the spillover to household consumption. If I were to devote myself to all the crazy ideas that led to the use of a huge deficit for reprehensible purposes, we'd probably be sitting here by tomorrow morning. I would just like to say to you, in general, that some good people who propose expenditures from the state budget are similar to people drilling holes into the bottom of lifeboats with a justification for facilitating the voyage. However, I think I should give at least one example. I like and appreciate the unions, but their last idea to stick to two days on November 17th seems like a waste of money to me, because they too need to know that it means losing CZK 24 billion in just two days. Twenty-four billion. [[10.50 hours]] Well, I intercede for supporting COVID III as a basic program to lead us out of the economic crisis so that we gradually cut off subsidies and replace them with the loans, the loans that you have to repay, and that, of course, you encourage entrepreneurs to take greater action. I am now going to conclude on the revenue side of the state budget. Unlike unfortunate Špidla, I'd like to tell you that there are no sources. [[Fun in the hall.]] Of course we can borrow it. Yes. But we have to pay off the loan. And if this or next generation pays it back, it's irrelevant because someone has to pay it back. That's why I'm against waste and generous suggestions that... Well, I'll give you one more example that upset me - a proposal for a reduction - well, or if I were to reverse it, I'll increase the discount on the taxpayer. This proposal also appeared. I don't want the free discount. That's nice, but it means a significant budget cut again. So I'm ending by saying, self-critically, that I don't like those who just diagnose, and they don't suggest therapy. Therefore, allow me to repeat my proposal more or less a year ago in this Parliament. Money is the blood of the economy. And we can get the money into the economy. We have calculated with Minister Schillerová that the abolition of tax exemptions and concessions would amount to CZK 380 billion. The ancient Říman had a beautiful proverb - per de dictis utilizat calamitatis, or you lost the benefits of disaster. The benefit of the disaster, which is undoubtedly a pandemic, is that we could find the courage to take some steps that we would not have the courage, taste, and perhaps even the need for when developing continuously calmly. And the abolition of tax exemptions in this crisis situation of lack of real means, lack of blood, is, in my opinion, a way to restore the economy. I've read the program of all the political parties. I recall that in the YES programme, in the electoral programme, it is said that tax exemptions need to be reduced, with a completely true justification, namely, who does not pay taxes, someone else has to pay those taxes for it. If we want tax justice, colleagues and colleagues, then everyone should pay taxes. And no extras. However, since there is a lobbyist behind every tax exception, I do not want to say the Mafia, but the lobbyist group, it happened that when this House was going through a modest proposal to remove the tax exemption for remote heat supply - I note that it would cost clients CZK 25 a month - for these CZK 25 in the barricades the votes of Members fell and ended in the end by the fact that the tax exemption was rejected. What to do with exceptions that have a much longer range than 25 crowns a month? But what I'm offering you and what is cruel therapy, but therapy, is the 380 billion available resources, and I'm really aware that everything isn't going to work out. But there are tens of billions available, of course, at the cost of not having them today, those who have had extras. Dear colleagues, what can I say in conclusion? I want to say congratulations. I want to wish you a nice and quiet Christmas, regardless of your party jurisdiction. And I also want to wish you a happy and happy new year. And I would like to wish myself and you, when we meet here again in a year to discuss the state budget, to state in the draft State Budget Act that the deficit did not exceed CZK 100 billion due to the fact that CZK 250 billion was saved from tax exemptions and their cancellations. And if I'm being assassinated by those who advocated tax exemptions, remember me, and let someone else lift the banner for me to abolish tax exemptions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u18	Thank you to the President of the Republic. The President of the House will accompany him and we will continue the debate on the draft law on the state budget. I will ask the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance to take the position at the rapporteur's table, and I will ask the rapporteur for the chair of the budget committee, Miloslava Vostroa, to do the same. And we will return to the order of priority rights that have been announced, and this is Mr Onderka with the opinion of the Social Democracy Club, Vice-President Okamura and Minister Maláčová. Still, my colleague, a moment of peace, those who discuss, for example, the President's speech will certainly do so in the lobby and create a dignified environment for your speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u19	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. My esteemed colleague, my colleagues, Prime Minister, members of the government, I will not forgive myself for the start of a few words through you, Mr Vice-President, my colleague Munzar and the absent President Zeman. You both mentioned a great Czech history policy, Mr. Rašín. I would like to tell you that in the prewar period in the Czech Republic thanks to Mr Rašín, prices of food and other goods increased by about five times and even more after the war. We can talk about Mr. Rašín's contribution and whether it was his so-called. English way better than French way from Engliš. But I would like to put an end to this one sentence, which the President said in a way: Let's forget about stereotypes! We're in the 21st century, we're in a different time! Stop calling on history and historical personalities, which were undoubtedly exceptional for their time, but at that time there was no 21st century, even pandemics and recipes could not really be taken over. In my opinion, the budget of 2021 is evil, but unfortunately we need it. As I see it, the parameters of the budget for 2021 for the Czech Republic are such that they encourage discussion and controversy. By the way, a few of the previous speakers who performed here were quite taken in such a way. A number of assumptions on which the budget is based are questionable. The deficit is huge. I frankly say that this is almost - and I stress the word almost - unacceptable. However, I must add that I will support the budget. As much as I consider it to be a semi-finished product, it is still better to have such a little amorphous and unfinished, vague thing than a budget make-up, especially at this time. At the moment, the Treasury Secretary is unable to present anything better than what we have on our desk. It's partially understandable. These are times that are really hard to estimate. Define the financial parameters of the budget, it really is the divination of the crystal ball. Yet there is far too much uncertainty about the current draft budget. I would rather say a few points of that professional nature. Firstly, I am unhappy that the budget is not accompanied by a government finance plan for next year and a deficit reduction procedure towards a balanced budget. I know it's hard. But our colleagues in Germany and many others have drawn up such a plan and are on the table together with the budget. Plus, we were supposed to have a plan like this in the House by September 30th, if I remember correctly. We don't. If they can do it in Germany, why can't we? And do we have an incompetent Treasury? I don't think so. Or do we not want a plan like this because it would be clear how long we will be dealing with deficits from this and next year? For the record, Germany is working with a 218 billion deficit this year. EUR. Next year, they want to cut it down to 96 billion. EUR. And beware, in the years 2022 and 2023 they want to be on almost a balanced budget: deficits of 10,5 billion. EUR 6,7 billion. EUR. Again, if they can do it in Germany, why can't we? A little comparison. The Germans have reduced the deficit to 44 percent this year. If we work with 500 billion numbers. And this year, 320 billion, and I do not account for the abolition of the supergross wage, so we will only reduce the deficit to 64 percent of this year's decline. And if we move as slowly as it looks with the consolidation of public finances as we do so far, then the real threat is that our deficits will be in the years 2022 and 2023 by agreement (?) at least higher than the German deficits. Which is a pretty scary idea. I hope you'll be right about that. Another problem. We are adopting a budget that does not include some tax changes. Of course, it is mainly about the tax package and from it specifically about the cancellation of the supergross wage. I don't find it very serious and professionally funded procedure when we're talking about a deficit of 320 billion, and with the other hand we're adding another maybe up to 90 billion. Crowns. If someone were to plan home expenses like that, we'd call him an irresponsible lunatic. Third thing. While we keep part of the deficit calm in the air, in the proposed 320 billion, the fate of some 40 billion is not very clear. They are planned to invest slightly over 140 billion, which is a sum that is dramatically above the amount we can invest in a normal regime per year. Minister Havlíček may oppose me, but if we look at how much the Czech Republic is in a state to invest every year, unfortunately, I would point out, unfortunately, you must be right. As it turned out this year, the vast resources cast into the start of the investment crisis remained unused, so it will probably not be different in the next year. We can just say we're gonna invest out of the crisis, but we can't even do that. I'm saying if we can spend 100 billion meaningfully, it'll be a success. The fourth thing I don't really see is that we spend 500 billion in an effort to compensate for unprecedented shock. But we must not overlook a frightening fact: the structural deficit of the budget is also increasing under cloaking the boom, and this is deadly to the future. We will pay for the concjunctural deficits over time, but the structural deficit requires a change in the overall adjustment of either income or expenditure. Neither does the Treasury. In this sense, the tax package is only a minor correction and the possible abolition of the supergross wage, according to the proposal by Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, would increase the structural deficit by 90 billion. Without this, however, the structural deficit has already increased in the order of less than tens of billions of crowns this year. The next government will leave this cabinet with state finances in a state that will be worse in order than at the end of the last cabinet of social democracy. Certainly a significant part, or most of this deterioration, can be attributed to the crisis, but it must be fair to admit that a certain deterioration in the structural deficit would occur without an epidemic. Despite all the professional reservations, however, I must reiterate, fellow Members, that it is now particularly true: a poor budget, which we know about, is flawed rather than a budget make-up. And who knows the rules on the use of budgetary commissions must admit that, given the absolute specificity of the budget 2020 and the exceptionality of the deficit in 2021, this is simply not the way to proceed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u20	I thank Mr Onderk for his speech. Now Vice-President Tomio Okamura, Mrs. Labor and Social Affairs Minister Jana Maláčová will prepare herself. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, budget debates have been the same for years. There are billions operating here, the opposition criticizes that little is being put there or she, and the government brags about how she or she said she added there. It is also today that we are discussing the first reading of the draft state budget for next year. [[11.10 hours]] First of all, I was a little surprised by the Minister of Finance Schillerová, who basically brags about this and defends deficit management by arguing that we are less indebted than some of the failing states of the European Union, and that is what I'm saying, because we're basically not that bad. I think the standard should be balanced management or surplus management. I hope that's how the Minister runs his household. But to think of it as a good thing, and to think that maybe that's the government's goal, so I don't think that's the right premise that we should be coming out of. That objective should be sound management and a healthy state with at least a balanced budget, which I am not saying is possible at this time of crisis, I am not saying this in any way, but as a vision of the budget it should certainly sound. For next year, the government plans to spend 1806.8 billion. Crowns. This is a respectable number and a lot of money for which many things could be built and also to ensure a decent standard of living for our citizens. The investments are to be 178 billion, but unfortunately we hear nothing about strategic visions, where and why we should invest massively. There is talk of Dukovany and the Security and Information Service, the BIS, is currently involved in the fight for business, which wants to influence the selection process. In this respect, I would at least partially commend CEZ, who signed a memorandum with the British company Rolls-Royce on the development of small modular nuclear reactors. Yes, here is a way to invest in state-of-the-art and, above all, the most promising technologies that will be useful not only to us, but can become a very valuable and desirable export commodity. Of course, I would like to see a massive state investment in cooperation with countries that are the furthest in the development and practical construction of such small reactors. On the outskirts, Rus have had these reactors in nuclear submarines for decades, in icebreakers, and they're already producing electricity on land. Developments, for example, in Japan, take the same direction. It is also obvious that there is a way from large, expensive and risky power generation to decentralization without having to give up nuclear power. I have heard so far that, among other things, the deficit is also the need to co-finance European projects. Well, European - European Union projects so that we do not lose EU subsidies. That's how we send the money out of our taxes first, and then they redistribute it into their designated projects. We are asking ourselves what the projects are, because we are in a situation where we do not really need any more bike paths, unnecessary lookouts or private water parks, guesthouses and private hotels funded by public money. And that's where we get our savings. Under this government, we have historically the most civil servants and the state is the most expensive in history, while taxes are already so high in our country that citizens can no longer be squashed. I have nothing against civil servants, on the contrary, police officers, firemen, health professionals and many and many other professions are of course very necessary and the SPD obviously supports all these professions. The question, however, is to what extent we can finance the housing of civil servants from public funds. That's the question, because, of course, no one wants the state to essentially collapse on the fact that the system can no longer be financed. And this is obvious here, of course, and this is also seen in the proposal for a huge deficit state budget, when we are going to a trillion crowns in the sum of two years, and that means that the Czech state budget is out of control. The Minister of Finance here mistakenly commends the government for saying that over the past seven years, state debt has been reduced from 41 percent to 29 percent of GDP, thus moving our public finances to the fourth best place in the EU. Firstly, we have experienced a period of such prosperity, not because of the government, it needs to be stressed, it is a cyclical process, and it is not because of the government, when we were able to reduce debt much more strongly, so that we can prepare a pillow for cases like the crises that the government has created for us today. And the comparison within Europe is really smiling. Indeed, European countries are largely overdebted and some of them are on the verge of collapse, so there is no point comparing themselves to them. Extra debt, which is inefficiently managed, is always bad, no matter how high it is. Even a small child will understand that, if not some people in the government. The Government's draft state budget for 2021 is proposed with a deficit of 320 billion. Crowns. In this proposal, however, the state's income loss is not included after the cancellation of the supergross wage, which is to be another about 90 billion. Crowns. The SPD is promoting the abolition of the supergross wage and we also support the reduction in gross wage rates from 20 to 15 percent. You have to leave more money in people's purses. The SPD movement has already passed other laws on the financial support of working people. We systematically promote an increase in the basic discount on the taxpayer, as well as an increase in the support of working parents with children. These laws have already been passed under the SPD by our Member, Lucie Šafránková. We will try to make the most of it here, because increasing the basic discount on the taxpayer will mostly help middle-income and low-income workers. We repeatedly propose taxation of dividends for foreign owners of domestic corporations, which have an exception that the Špidlův government has enforced. Here we see how the government headed by ČSSD went to the hands of multinational corporations at the expense of Czech companies. In the event that the foreign owner pays his share of the profit, he does not now have to pay a 15% withholding tax, unlike the Czech owners of the companies. About 300 billion are carried out each year. CZK, out of the Czech Republic, that means 40 to 50 billion. in taxes which would strengthen the state budget if this exception to the SPD proposal is abolished. This law was passed for us by SPD Member Jan Hrnčíř. At the same time, we also support the valorisation of pensions, which will increase by an average of CZK 839 next year to almost CZK 15,400, because our pensioners deserve it. They deserve to increase their pensions, both disabled and old-age pensioners. However, the SPD cannot support the draft budget as a whole at this stage. Of course, we will have our amendments prepared in terms of how I speak here, and, indeed, a number of laws are already being passed here. And, of course, what still bothers us about the budget is that we would like the government of the YES movement, the government of Andrej Babiš, the government of the ANO movement, the ČSSD movement and the KSČM, to stop funding the inadaptable. There's a law from the SPD pen, it's already been through the first reading, so I hope it passes as quickly as possible, to end the abuse of dosage inadaptable. Furthermore, we want political non-profit organisations to stop funding. Otherwise, I'll go back to financing the inadaptables. It is truly trivial when incomes are reduced for working citizens today, workers who have lost their incomes, lost their jobs, reduced their jobs in small Czech and medium-sized businesses and desperately requested state support, which is also agreed by the SPD's votes, while so-called inadaptables actually collect the same money all the time. They're cashing in the same money, and they're actually handing me over. So, of course, this needs to be stopped, this. Stop the parasite on the system. We've passed the law, thanks to the votes of the other parties, we've been through the first reading, so I hope it moves as fast as possible. And those political nonprofit organizations, I don't understand why the government is still funding them. Now here we have an up-to-date case where the Refugee Assistance Organization, it is the name of a Czech nonprofit organization, it is run by a Mr. Rozumek, it is collected from the government, the government finances it with huge money from ministries. [[11.20 hours]] So the government of Andrej Babiš... [[He's turning to the Prime Minister.]] The Prime Minister asks which ones. You, Prime Minister, answered me yourself in writing that you consider the activities of this nonprofit organization to be necessary and whether you... Yes, I've got it in writing from you, I'll show you. I know you've got a lot going on, so I think someone else is writing it for you, but you wrote it right there, and I've also made it public that you consider the activities of this nonprofit organization supporting migration to be beneficial. I'm gonna hand it over to you tonight, the interview, because it's upstairs in my office, so I'm gonna give it to you in writing, what you told me. And I'm glad we're discussing this here. [[Prime Minister off the microphone: I'll check it out.]] Sure, thank you for checking, but you're signed under it. Well, I'll bring it to you, I'll tell the secretariat to bring it to me, and I'll be happy to give you your interpellation. But the point is, some of your ministries are funding the organization to help refugees. It's, for example, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, if I remember correctly, it's the Ministry of the Interior, it's there, I think, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I'll get it for you. She collects from several places within your government, and the point is that the organization to help refugees who openly promote migration to the Czech Republic here, I'd like you to cut the funding to end her funding, Prime Minister. So I hope you'll do it without delay, now that we're together like this... [[Prime Minister off microphone: I'll write to the ministers behind the ČSSD.]] So the Prime Minister says he'll write to the ministers for the ČSSD, but it's your government, you signed it for me, that you feel it's necessary to finance this organization, and that you support it. But what's the point? This refugee aid organization, Prime Minister, you may have noticed last week, so she sued the Czech state because of two illegal Afghan migrants, because of alleged police misconduct when they were detained here - and imagine, they sued the Czech state and the court normally granted them CZK 180,000 compensation for the two illegal Afghan migrants, there were a total of six, but they sued on behalf of them, this organization, your government-paid organization, sued the Czech state and the court charged them, those migrants who had already disappeared somewhere, 180,000 out of public money per person. And I find it scandalous that you actually finance a political non-profit out of public money, which supports migration here and at the same time sues the Czech state, which then, on the basis of a completely insane decision by the court, is still draining the state budget, and there is 180,000 for two illegal Afghan migrants. And it happened, it's already a second instance, it's already been done, forensics. So I'm glad we're having this conversation. I would really like to ask you, Prime Minister, whether you would also not conduct a short audit of these non-profits political, which support migration here, because it is not possible that they are still suing the Czech state and you are still paying for it. That's crazy. And by the way, that Mr. Rozumek is talking very inappropriately about you in the media, I'd say, rudely. So I don't understand what that is. I'll be there, being part of the government, I'll deal with it immediately, this, and I'll figure it out. Because what's that supposed to mean, acting like that? After all, it directly harms the Czech state, and it still curses you in public space. I just read it. I'm so glad you guys are gonna deal with this because the arrogance is - I mean, the organization - totally, totally incredible. So I'm glad we're here, Prime Minister, so right here at the counter, one of my points has been solved. Well, I'm glad this is how it works. So I'll bring it to you, I'll get it, your interview response, so let's get it straight, because it's incredible, it just needs to be ended, that kind of funding. Furthermore, we would like them to stop now that the deficit budget is, at least now, to cut those foreign overpriced arms contracts for the military, because really, don't be mad at me, I know they're part of this offset programs, but it's really a smaller part, and now we just can't spend tens of billions of crowns on supporting foreign economies. Just 50 billion, I know it's still running, but apparently 50 billion will be chosen by a German supplier for a combat truck, 50 billion, 6 billion French guns, helicopters, you've already agreed, we disagreed with it, those US helicopters for 15 billion, but simply 80 billion in the crisis to feed on the support of much more advanced Western economies, instead of leaving those 80 billion in the Czech Republic and moving to support Czech companies that pay taxes in Bohemia employ people, and that's really a crazy policy for this. That's crazy politics. I mean, you can at least put those combat vehicles away. That's just crazy. It's a question of why he's always clinging to it like that, why he insists on it. As I say, even the argument that some of this is to be provided by Czech companies just doesn't hold up here because it's a small part and the amounts are so huge that they pour into those Western economies that now in a crisis where we are desperate for an astronomical record deficit budget, that's completely insane. So that is another reason why we do not agree with this draft state budget. Then we'd like that harmful inclusion in education to be cut off. It is about 6 billion crowns a year. We'd save it, too. We would also like to, because Czech special education is also admired in the world, it works perfectly, and I think it is set up so that everyone gets the best possible care and the opportunity to educate without inclusion. Furthermore, we would like to stop subsidizing solar barons. That kind of fell asleep because, Prime Minister, you said it was a few months ago that you were going to ask the European Commission about the solar barons, you said you were going to ask, I was reading it in the media, if there was anything you could do about it, because it's about 40 billion a year, so I don't know if it fell asleep or fell asleep... [[The Prime Minister speaks off the microphone.]] Well, it would be good to just sort it out, 'cause it's really sucking out our budget. I know it's not a simple issue, but that's what the government's been doing to prepare solutions, clear suggestions on how to humiliate the money and, on the contrary, move it to the decent people needed, and we've been waiting for it for x years, and the issue of these solar barons is really crazy. It's true of all citizens, and I think it needs to be dealt with. Furthermore, of course, the overall problem with the budget is that we would like to stop sending soldiers on foreign missions into combat operations. And really as the very next peak was the vote that was here 14 days ago, when in the crisis, when we need every penny in the Czech Republic, so here you voted, you voted us out, the SPD was against, 680 million, almost three quarters of a billion to send Czech soldiers to combat operations of the Islamic tribes in Mali, Niger and Chad. The argument and the fight against migration will not stand here at all. I mean, we all know that it's not true that it's a fight for French interests on the spot, so don't even tell me if anyone's gonna react to it, so nobody's gonna fool us, we know exactly how it is. So I would like to stress that we in the SPD very much appreciate the Czech army and we very much appreciate our soldiers and support them, just as we support security forces and rescue forces, let it be police, firefighters and the like And we think in this context that it is necessary, we just think in this context that we need to change the strategy of our army towards defending the territory of the Czech Republic and defending our citizens. So, if we do not want Czech soldiers to broadcast themselves unnecessarily abroad - notabene and the NATO member states have already withdrawn soldiers from Afghanistan, such as France, so it is not true that we have to be there, it is not true, it is purely a political decision that we want to be here somewhere, or the government decides that it wants to send soldiers in foreign interests somewhere. So we think that simply the Czech army should concentrate, change strategies towards defending our territory, defending our citizens, and not to these combat missions thousands of miles away from us, which really do not make sense for the Czech Republic, notabene in Afghanistan, we know that after more than ten years of NATO armies' presence, the situation has gotten much worse. That means migration has increased and drug exports have increased. So we can see that the result is exactly the opposite of before he arrived. So that's the comment from our point of view. Like I said, we're at first reading. We will propose various amendments as part of the second reading in terms of what I have said here, so we will see how this will be voted on at third reading, but at this point, as it is conceived, we certainly cannot support the budget as a complex. There are good things in there, but there are also fundamental bad things from our point of view that need to be dealt with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u22	Thank you to President Okamur. I have two factual points, the first is my colleague Valachová. My colleague, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, esteemed government, Czech schools, whether common or special, form one family of schools and in all these schools, common and special, we strive to make every child successful. The fact that it costs money, despite the record increase in the school budget over the last five years thanks to the government of the YES movement and social democracy, is clear. I therefore warn of all the considerations that something should be cut in this respect. And especially for President Okamura, because he repeats it quite often here at the counter. A third of the 6 billion that he still mentions goes to special schools, to demanding training within special schools, and yet it is that special schools call: on the contrary, we want to raise these funds for children and their success. And the remaining investments in education, I wouldn't cut them either towards mainstream schools. After all, the SPD in public space and through the mouth of President Okamura does not support cuts towards mainstream schools in the sense of teaching assistants called for by schools and directors - leave them as they are - and on which we are now even relying in the framework of covido measures in education, and we call for teaching assistants and teaching assistants in schools to help with distance education and help with anywhere. So relying on them, but taking their money, or even throwing it away, I believe that's not what President Okamura meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u24	Mr Ondřej Benešík will now make a point of fact. Have a good day. And then with priority rights, she's ready or Secretary Maláčová will be prepared. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u25	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, a brief remark on what has been said here, namely European funding. It's true that we're going to take the money to Brussels and then we're going to get it back. But it must also be added that we will take about 80 billion to Brussels each year. less than we're gonna get. This means the Czech Republic every year, if we subtract what we gave there, it gets about 80 billion. extra. And as far as the technology of what the money is used for is concerned, at the beginning of each planning period, the European Commission sets out a financial framework and sets out areas in agreement with the Member States in which it will be invested. But then the individual priorities of those states are negotiated by the government of one or another Member State with the European Commission, there will be an agreement, and then the money is drawn to the specific projects. This means a Member State, i.e. a government, e.g. The government of the Czech Republic, too, has enormous possibilities, authority and scope to agree with the European Commission on where the funds will be directed. I don't think everything's wrong. When I was mayor in Strání and we had about 7-8 miles to invest. Every year, and that was in the better years, so we built a sewage treatment plant for this money for almost 50 miles. or a water treatment plant in almost 20 miles. I don't think they're bad projects. But it is true that, in particular, thanks to our approach, national action and attitude, a lot of money is spent completely wrong. Look at the Polák, they built highways for it, which we all admire, we build golf resorts for it. But that is our problem and our fault than the European Commission.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u26	I will now invite Minister Jana Maláčová to perform. So I'm going to read an apology in the meantime, because now that I've taken over suddenly, I don't know if it's been read. The Minister of Health Jan Blatný apologizes, this is 11. 11 a.m. to the end of the day on account of urgent business matters. So, Madam Secretary, you have an unlimited word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin to explain my view of the state budget for next year, I would like to respond to the debate that was particularly here from the right-wing spectrum. I would like to underline that, thanks to the fact that we were saving 10, 12 years ago during the Great Depression, we were getting out of the crisis two years longer than the whole of Western Europe. Well, that was one consequence. That doesn't mean you shouldn't save, but you shouldn't save in the wrong place. This really needs to be observed and distinguished. And I think that the Czech right should finally evaluate this paradigm in some way. After all, the time that has passed is more than sufficient. At the same time, one experience that I have. For example, when we negotiated cursarbeit in recent months, entrepreneurs and companies begged us to make a law that would ensure that the next governments would not treat the business sector as badly as the ODS and TOP 09 governments. They were companies that begged us to prevent the 2008 situation from happening again, 2009 and governments did not treat the business sector in such a stepmotherly way. Now I would like to mention the view of the MPSV on the state budget. For me, what brings people the state budget next year is crucial. I think it is clear that the vulnerable groups, which the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is in charge of in so-called. The second and, of course, the first wave of pandemics are at risk even more than ever before. And I think that the key task of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to remember the state budget for endangered groups has been secured. Firstly, I would like to mention what has been taken into account in the state budget, and then I would like to comment on what we are still working on. They are investments in people and infrastructure in social services. Social services not only in the first wave, but especially in the second wave do a great deal of work. They do the impossible and ensure that the most endangered group from the pandemic point of view does not remain unprotected. I think that during the first wave of social services we have made the work as easy as possible, and even better news is that the state budget for this group of hundreds of thousands of people remembers even more. We've got a salary increase for all social services employees, except for those managerial positions, by 10 percent. That's very good news. You know that in the last seven years we have managed to significantly increase the financial value of employees in social services by more than half, but there is still room for growth. And 10 percent is excellent news, it's one of the biggest increases ever. They are also important not only for pandemics, but also for population ageing, which is a matter and a challenge that is of a longer-term nature and which will keep us extremely busy over the next decades, so they are investments in social services infrastructure. There I am very happy that we were able to essentially double the allocation for construction and next year it will go from state to state 1 billion. not only to senior homes, but also for example. to sheltered housing for people with autistic spectrum disorder, etc. Of course, we want to invest 3 billion more in addition. from European money, from so-called the React program. That's great news. As far as seniors are concerned, if we go fluent from social services to pensions, beyond the valorisation mechanism - the Senate will discuss this on Thursday or Friday, sorry, sorry, on Friday afternoon - we will finally be able to push for the extraordinary 5,000 contribution as government. Kroner, that's from the state budget this year. As part of the standard valuation for next year, we expect an average increase, with an average increase in pensions of CZK 839. This is a total increase of 5,8%. I think that's a very decent raise. The average pension will thus increase to CZK 15 336, but that does not mean that everyone will have such amounts. Overall, it will cost 28.6 billion year on year. Crowns. Please note that the total cost of the budget 2021 is 504 billion. Crowns. Although this is a large proportion, the huge share of the pension chapter in the state budget, we still have a large part of the elderly in particular, particularly because of exceptional inflation. For this reason, we will finally reach the end of the legislative process of the extra $5,000, but of course this also shows the need for pension reform. You know, there's probably a pension committee meeting on November 27, and then, at the beginning of December, if the emergency goes away, we'll introduce our pension reform. I think it is really necessary to make systemic changes in the area of pensions so that they are financially sustainable, but at the same time that pensions fulfil their function, that is, to take people who have worked their whole lives into the system so that they have a calm old age. [[11.40 hours]] In addition to the elderly, they are also other groups of residents, which are even more vulnerable at the moment. It must be said that they are especially families with children. We want to avoid further deterioration of their situation. They're families with children. And about 15 percent of them in recent months have reported a decline in income of up to 30 percent. Those are huge amounts. Good from the right is that for primary prevention, the family's so-called grant title, it will go a total of 150 miles. CZK, that's almost 48 miles. more. And primary prevention is actually investment in not falling apart and solving their problems in time. Domestic violence, various educational problems with children, drugs, financial literacy, these are all the things the family's grant title points to. And an increase of almost 50 percent is very good news. The negative effects of the pandemic must also not affect vulnerable children, which is why we have negotiated an increase of 65 million on the social protection of children in municipalities. CZK, total will therefore go to the activities of the OSPODs up to 1.7 billion. Kč. I think that's another great news. The functioning of social work, which serves all those who find themselves in a difficult situation - people who are socially excluded, people with no funds in the financial crisis, is also central to the pandemic. We negotiated on social work in municipalities and on the outskirts by almost 90 miles. CZK more, so there will be almost 0.5 billion in total. CZK, although I recognise that this area deserves an even greater financial injection. I have put in here everything that has been negotiated in the state budget, that is to say, what is contentment. But there are still two things missing. In the legislative process, there is an encore for a child. If I mentioned that a large number of families have had a 30% decline in last month's income, it is necessary to avoid this situation as quickly and efficiently as possible by increasing the income rate of families when more families fit into child benefits. That's what I think will be next week's homework. And I firmly hope that we will be able to find a solution that will not only solve the financial situation of families at risk of poverty, but also support the consumption of the economy. You know the fiscal multiplier on the baby supplement is extremely high. Experts, economists consider it the best solution in this situation, which means child support. For me, as a social democrat, it is also important to say that child benefits, thanks to the way wages have been growing in recent years, have become a poor dose, although three years ago, the coefficient has risen from 2.4 to 2.7. That is why it is important that working families with children - working families with children - reach this family benefit, helping families who work but still are poor. That's the key imperative. We must also not forget the singles, who are even more affected by the ongoing pandemic. I hope that the day after tomorrow, on Friday, we will be able to jointly approve the draft legislation on replacement maintenance in the third reading. If we manage to do this together, it will finally be clear and systemic assistance to single families after 15 years of discussion. The State Budget Act also does not include increases or increases in minimum wages or increases in salaries in the public sphere. We'll discuss minimum wage next week at the government. The increase in salaries in the public sphere is still the subject of negotiations and will, of course, depend on the discussion of the tax package. The last thing I would like to mention and which is in progress is the amendment to the Social Services Act, which means systemic assistance to social services. At this point, we have an inter-ministerial process and we will discuss it, and I firmly hope that we will be able, as a government, to approve a systemic change that will stabilise, make clear the whole area of social services and help social services at this critical time. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the State Budget Act later than usual. There are constant changes in the situation. And by not being stable this year, so does the state budget. I know that it is neither perfect nor final, but from the perspective of citizens and from the point of view of the budget chapter of the MPSV, at the moment, I consider it a reasonable compromise that helps people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u28	Thank you, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. We have one factual point before us, Mr Jan Skopeček, then with priority rights, Mr Bartošek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u29	Thank you very much. I'll say my thing about the budget. Only here from Mrs Maláčová, but also from Minister Zaorálek were false about how the Czech Republic was the only one to experience a recession in 2012, 2013 which we have extended with some gentle policy. Dear colleagues, dear ministers, please look at the dates before you speak such nonsense. According to Eurostat, the economy decreased by 0.8% in 2012, with stagnation in 2013 as opposed to the euro area and the European Union. The European Union also decreased by -0.7 % in 2012, with a stagnation of 0 percent in 2013 as well as the Czech Republic. On the contrary, if you look at the countries that you are so extolling, and on what path we, or Greece, Spain, Portugal, should take, simply the southern wing whose politics you call upon here, Minister Zaorálek, look at how they extended the recession. They don't grow till today. You, as a representative of social democracy, the government of Bohuslav Sobotka, who cut off budget deficits without growing or falling, you didn't notice it at all, you didn't care, so you're here to lecture us on fiscal policy? This is unbelievable! So please take a look at the dates before you talk nonsense about such an important law of the year on the state budget and when you will call on us to embark on the journey of southern countries that end in many years of stagnation and decline. That's your way. We don't want to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u30	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, then, my colleague Bartošek. With a point of fact? [[Yes.]] Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u31	Thank you. I'm just going to react briefly, because it's probably been unnoticed here that I, as an example of the country that has dealt with the crisis the fastest, used the United States of America. Well, I'm just saying this one more time for accuracy. And otherwise, I'd like to draw the last performance here with the memory of a famous French diplomat, which I suspect was in the first half of the 19th century, Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord, who said the phrase to the Bourbon at the time: "They understood nothing and didn't forget anything." They didn't understand anything. They didn't understand any of this happening around them in the last few years. And by that they didn't forget anything he meant that they didn't forget any of their bad habits and stereotypical thinking, which they keep repeating forever.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u32	There's another factual point. My colleague Bartošek will wait a little longer, and Mr Skopeček has a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u33	Thank you very much. I agree with the first part of Minister Zaorálek's response. Yes, the United States can cope more quickly with any crisis. When you look at the data, they actually fell in 2009, and they even fell harder than the eurozone did. The slump in the United States, when there is a global crisis, is always the first year deeper, unemployment always shoots strongly up there, but in the coming years they are much better off. The economy will immediately start to grow and unemployment will immediately fall. Europe is in the opposite direction. Although it has a minor decline in gross domestic product, a smaller increase in unemployment, but it has been going on much longer with the decline and unemployment. It's a simple explanation. In all rankings and comparisons, the United States is an economy that is less regulated, which has a more flexible labour market, which simply does not have such a strict, inflexible labour code. I am surprised that the Social Democrat will be calling for reforms of the Labour Code and calling on the Czech House to take inspiration from the United States. I welcome that, Minister, but prepare a much more flexible labour code and we can talk here about achieving the same response to the economic crisis as the United States. As for the other part, yes, they didn't forget anything, they didn't understand anything. Even after seeing the crisis plagued by the eurozone's southern wing, which was indebted headlessly even in times of growth, so you promote this path, defending it you want to go. You didn't understand anything. He didn't forget anything from his time in Sobotkův's government. You cut off deficits regardless of how the economy grew! You caused the structural problems of public finances! It's your fault!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u34	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact, and we can continue. With priority right now, Mr Bartošek, then Mrs Adamová Pekarová. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u35	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The Ministry of Finance prepared the first draft budget law for 2021 with a projected deficit of 320 billion and submitted it to the government on 30 September this year. The proposed deficit is well above the deficit of CZK 116 billion, which was initially announced by the Minister of Finance, but above all does not count on other planned government measures, such as the abolition of the supergross wage and other revenue-side failures, which I can significantly deepen even further the resulting deficit. Here I can't shake the impression that the whole story of preparing the state budget for next year reminds many of Cimrmanův's fairy tale, how the poorer man came into even greater misery, because we have not yet approved the budget, but we now know that the figures that are in it disagree and that the deficit is very likely to be even greater than planned. When I return briefly to the fact that my colleague Onderka spoke here from social democracy and expressed that the draft budget is very difficult and problematicly approved for social democracy, it is clear that the YES movement is moving itself somewhere between social democracy and the Communist Party by its programme, by drawing up a budget and its relationship to public finances. Clearly, the YES movement has become the left-wing party. The proposed parameters of the budget will not ensure compliance with the structural balance limit set by the current text of Act No. 23/2017, on budgetary responsibility rules, which for 2021 amounts to 4% of GDP. This is a limit that has been shifted from 1% of GDP this year, and it needs to be said that the National Budget Board did not agree to release to that extent, rejected it. If I say it to the public, this year we have $500 billion. The wagon is going downhill, it's gaining speed, and that indebting the Republic for next year in practice means that this government has decided to unscrew the car's brakes. How hard the impact will be, that's a question. Anyway, the impact will be very severe. If the budget had been approved in this form, this would have meant, according to the Ministry of Finance, an increase in the structural deficit of up to 4.5 percent of GDP. But there's one more thing to say. All of this, assuming that the budgets of municipalities and regions will not be managed with deficit, because if this assumption were not confirmed, the resulting balance would be even worse. And here we have to mention that this government is very Macesque about municipalities and regions, and yesterday we saw that this government decided to take some of the money from the regions and enrich its state budget. A similar ambition was given by the government at the beginning of the year towards the municipalities, and here I am glad that this behaviour was stopped by the government and that KDU-ČSL was the one who submitted the amendment, and the money returned to the municipalities. And I thank all those who supported this initiative because it is not possible for the government to touch the money that does not belong to it and to take it from cities and regions. The approach used to the adjustment of the expenditure framework and budget formation, as presented in the proposal, leads to further dilution of fiscal rules - and also started by the spring amendment of Act No. 23/2017, on the rules of budgetary responsibility, and further deepened by the approval of Act No. 288/2020 Coll., setting out the deadline for submitting a draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2021 to the Government and the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. What is essential is that any space for increasing expenditure is exhausted within the documentation submitted, while some adjustments are not sufficiently explained. The National Budget Board also draws attention to this. It must also be said that it should not escape attention that the government leaves no room at all for dealing with unexpected and unexpected events in 2021, which cannot be considered rational at present. The government just doesn't have reserves. The government, when a natural disaster comes, has nowhere to touch. That needs to be seen. I wish no such thing to the Czech Republic, but this is the government's approach. There's no spare hair! The budget is set as highly expansionary in the range of about 1.4 percent of GDP, without specifying how public finances will be returned to a sustainable level. Other countries, such as neighbouring Germany, have already announced a clear plan for consolidation of public finances, and while Germany is counting on a deficit of EUR 218 billion this year, next year the deficit will be reduced to 96 billion and in 2022, 2023 the country's management should be balanced. In keeping with these parameters, the Czech state budget deficit threatens to be even nominally higher in these years than the whole of Germany will at that time. This is how the Czech government behaves! As Members, when a half-billion-dollar deficit was approved for this year, we asked to present the concept of consolidation of public finances for the period 2021 to 2027. We did not receive the document by 30 September. Compliance with the substance of fiscal rules is not self-effective. Respect for them greatly reduces the risk of long-term structural imbalances in public finances, which sooner or later require consolidation intervention. And here it needs to be clearly stated that the intervention in the future will be linked to the increase in taxes, the reduction of the scope of the services provided and will be negatively reflected in the living standard of the citizens of the Czech Republic in the future. This is how the government behaves and prepares the future for people in the Czech Republic. The budget, whether urban, regional or state, is always a business card of those with power, and also clearly shows the priorities of how they want to develop their city, region or country. [[12.00 hours]] And here it needs to be said how the government presented the budget and what are not priorities for it. For example, protection of soil and the environment is not a priority. Next year's budget is 2 billion lower. Minimum support is given by this government to keep water in the landscape, where the budget is 100 million lower than for this year. Living, for example. Apartment construction has dropped by half a billion. Where are the promises of this government that every year we will invest two to three billion in the construction of affordable housing, that the government will help people to have the opportunity to live for lower rent? They were just promises, empty promises. Right now, there is a need to support projects that will give people work that will make their lives easier. Right now, there's room to start building municipal apartments to help municipalities build apartments that have lower rents than commercial rents. The government can build and help people. Instead, it takes money and reduces by half a billion money to build municipal flats. The question of science and research is more or less a cinderella for this government, which probably doesn't deserve her attention. Culture, as far as the budget is concerned, doesn't interest the government either. And so, as discussions are going on, whether money will be taken from our military security, so I personally see this discussion as a clear statement, as a contempt for the work of everyone who cares about our security, including soldiers who are currently serving in hospitals, social services, procurement sites and helping our society. If there's no security, there'll be nothing. I believe that security should be one of the key priorities of this government, and I firmly believe that the defence budget will be able to be maintained by this government. For KDU-ČSL I want to say that we appreciate all those who bear on their shoulders the complexity of our times, and I want to thank them for that. Given the way the government spent its budget preparation, given how the budget is not real and does not really show what is going to happen next year, I say that KDU-ČSL will not support the budget in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u36	Thank you. And now, President Pekarová Adamová will speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u37	Thank you for the floor. Dear Government, or the remnants of the government that remain on the service, my fellow Members, I must say that I am very surprised when we are discussing the State Budget Act in this situation, in which we are not only in our country, but the entire planet, in this unprecedented crisis, that he has not come here to comment on it and to state the Prime Minister. Now he's not even here anymore, he disappeared like steam over a mug, but he didn't even put a sentence on him. This seems very, very strange to me when we realize what we are facing here and what the budget is being presented to us here. He doesn't seem to be standing up for him. Or in this country, did the Prime Minister replace the president who stepped out here defending the budget for him? After all, the Prime Minister has not been much involved in the current Coronavirus epidemic in recent weeks, nor has he shown himself at government press conferences. It's obvious that he's really a leader in unpleasantness. But this is a matter that speaks particularly of him and the entire government. What we heard here in the defense of the budget from Secretary Schillerová was more of a fairy tale about the state budget. If Secretary Schillerová were to make a living as a writer of fairy tales, the real ones, mostly intended for children, it might cause bad dreams for those children who would wake up in the morning, but it wouldn't affect them, they wouldn't have consequences. But from the impact of these fairy tales that have been said here, they will not be able to wake up, they will be accompanied day and night for many, many years to come. And that of the Zaorálkův's hell, as the minister here was screaming, you're going to set them up with these very irresponsible steps. After all, Minister Maláčová continued to do some fairy tale here, because how many times we have heard about pension reform, how many times we have heard here about the need for a social service law. I have been in this Chamber of Deputies for seven years and I hear it here every year. Then what could it be other than a fairy tale that doesn't get its fulfillment in reality? Let's repeat the numbers, please. This year, the government originally planned a deficit of 40 billion. and, in the name of the crisis, the government MEPs have approved - without any clear explanation of what will be specifically and how specifically it will be implemented - a deficit of 500 billion, i.e. more than 12 times higher. If the government could better handle the second wave of coronavirus, a large part of the deficit would probably remain untied. But we are far from mastering the second wave. This will certainly not happen, and so our debt will probably rise from today's level of around 30 percent above the base of 50 percent of GDP over GDP over the next few years. For next year, just without the influence of the second wave currently under way, the government has planned a deficit of 320 billion, at planned, very much in quotation marks, a recovery in economic growth. Although the Minister of Finance claims that these are anti-crisis measures, the data clearly show that most expenditures increase the deficit by anti-crisis measures are not. On the contrary, the clear majority of expenditures are only temporary but also temporary only in quotation marks. In other words, the government has put the budget in a state of very high structural, i.e. permanent, deficit, which will burden budgets until structural change takes place. And that can only be a substantial reduction in expenditure or an increase in income, i.e. taxes. The scale of the problem is estimated by renowned economists - and that is the reaction to Mr. Zaorálek again - many of them could be listed here. And we hope that Mrs Zamrazilová, as President of the National Budget Board, is also a renowned expert in his eyes. I can also mention one of our ranks, which is Luděk Niedermayer. So these renowned economists estimate the extent to be less than 150 billion. Crowns. According to the Minister, the anti-crisis measures are 214 billion. the proposed deficit, in other words, the structural problem, the one that we will face for the next few years of the budget, is just over 100 billion in quotation marks. Crowns, which is a lot, however much it could be worse, of course. It might sound nice. We will help revive the economy, invest from the crisis. Those are the phrases we've been listening to for weeks, months. Reality, however, is very far from the fairy tale. As the businessman and businessman who you have banned from doing business - and I am not questioning the reason why the ban had to sound - who can't make money today, turn every crown, solves what he's paying his expenses, his mortgage or rent, what his loved ones will live on, his family, solves whether he'll keep the employees, whether he'll last another week of uncertainty, or whether he's about to start packing slowly and if he's going to go bankrupt - when he's looking at how you spend your debts, but you're not looking anywhere for savings. Officials, they're fine. They don't have to worry about work. Even now that the business sector is to be very helpful, we hear from entrepreneurs, as often it is not. And so they are able to draw their futures in quite good colors. [[12.10 hours]] However, a beautiful example of how these things do not work at a time when they should be can be such a trivial thing that we have seen in recent days, such as public awareness of both regulations and compensations. I have already called here in March during the first wave not only in the House, but also in negotiations with the Prime Minister and ministers, to make a completely simple information platform, a simple web site on which everyone will find the necessary information, let it be in order, make it clear. You haven't been able to do it with that army of civil servants paid out of state money, taxpayers' taxes, those you're supposed to help for months. If Dominik Feri and his team hadn't been involved a few weeks ago, with many volunteers, dozens of volunteers from the Czech Republic. Digital, it's not until now. Well, I don't know what we got them for, you clerks. What we pay for. And do you think this is well observed by a man who is limited to his livelihood by these regulations? Of course, the fact that you were unable to do so is mismanagement of the government. Because if you wanted it, and you just often want it, it can be done as we see it now. And this is one perfectly beautiful example of how the state is failing under your leadership. One for all. Hundreds of such examples could be tolerated. Government aid is more peacock than real help. Ask those whom he has to help. And it doesn't matter if they run a café or a gym or if they're a musician or a manicurist. You just forbade them from doing business, and for the rest of us, or we forbade all the people, you forbade them to ask questions, we forbade that demand, too. It is not influenced by the level of their services, poor quality, but is simply imposed by a ban. And now these people just have to get clear, quick help. Otherwise, we just don't move out of these big economic problems. But the programs you write are unattainable for many, most cannot be combined, help is more theoretical than real for many. And at the same time, when many are talking, and they are already hundreds of thousands of citizens, from the last, so you come up with the demand that the same citizens fund you hundreds of billions of other debt. Because the same citizens will have to repay the debt in the future. No one else. It's not money from any of the ministers' pockets. And no reasonable person can support such a draft budget. TOP 09 proposes to return it to the government to recast, as the proposal has already been made here. I'm just reminiscing it, signing it, and I believe that we all feel the need to get it into more real numbers, not to approve a story about the state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u38	Thank you. And Mrs Věra Kovářová will perform for the STAN Club with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft state budget with a deficit of 320 billion. And here the question opens up, and it is obvious to ask whether this deficit will apply or not. In September, we might say yes. But suddenly there was a proposal that says that the super-gross wage will be abolished and that income taxes will be reduced to 15 per cent, proposed by the Prime Minister as a Member, and this proposal will result in an income loss of up to 80 billion. Crowns. So I ask whether or not the government is counting on this measure, whether or not this deficit will grow or not. We have heard quite often recently from the Minister that she could not include this in the draft state budget, because this proposal, this tax package, did not go through a legislative process. Let me just remind you that last year, on the contrary, when it came to increasing revenue, the Minister included a planned increase in revenue from the tax package in the draft state budget, which, of course, has not yet been passed through the legislative process. And now let us look at the priorities on which the government is based when drawing up the state budget for 2021. There are priorities that we definitely agree with. Firstly, these are increased health expenditures. And I think that we are all aware that health care at this time, and its quality, is really very important and the priority is rightly there. Another priority for the government is to increase pensions. Yes, that's by the law, the valorization comes according to a valid bill. And then there's the teacher's salary increase. We also agree with that, and we have always proposed an increase. Although the government initially rejected this, we think that quality teachers, well paid teachers are good for our pupils and for our future. However, I would expect the Minister's reasoning as to why teachers' salaries are increasing. And her answer is because we promised them. It's okay. But I would also expect an argument, as it is in the government's statement that without quality education, the nation has no future, that we need quality, educated people for our education, because without quality educators, there will be no quality pupils leaving our schools. In any case, we also support this priority. Another priority for the government is investment. It's okay. I would just ask the Minister: In this paper proposal, you say that investment is increased by 12 billion. Kroner, and elsewhere you mention that by 40 billion. Crowns. So whether you take it from the way the national budget for 2020 was proposed or from the actual amount, or from the actual amount of investment. What we regret, however, is that investment will be based primarily on government projects, on state projects, and not on regional ones. National capital expenditure recorded a decrease of 13.4 billion in the Ministry of Finance's materials. CZK, because it is precisely investments in the regions from the state budget that have been strengthened only once this year. And I have to ask why. We know very well that subsidies to regions and investments by regions and municipalities with the support of the state can move the regional economy and can also support small and medium-sized companies. So many priorities we agree with. And I ask where are the priorities that would lead to our state's competitiveness? It is true that we need a road and highway network, we need to build railways and rail infrastructure. But what we will also need and need is digital infrastructure. Without that, we will not have our industry, we will not have an industry with higher added value. As stated, high-speed Internet, or at least the Internet, if it is not in our Republic, if there is not enough civic amenities, so unfortunately companies will not be interested in investing in areas with higher added value. [[12.20 hours]] I'd like to mention the government's statement on the digital infrastructure. It says: We want the availability of high-speed internet everywhere. - Well, I don't think so, and it's a shame that for a time that comes and when the Internet and digitalization will play a major role in savings, unfortunately, this government isn't doing as much as it is in that government statement. As far as mandatorial spending is concerned, we see that the mandatorial expenditure and quasi-mandatorial expenditure are equal to 76 percent of the state budget expenditure, and clearly the government is not worried about that. The government does not worry about that when it comes to disbanding the rules of budgetary responsibility. We had a debate with the Minister about what the wording of some of the articles of the Act on budgetary responsibility rules is, and it says that the state and the government must manage so that debt does not endanger the stability of public budgets. And what does the government do? The government is loosening up the law, virtually. The Chamber of Deputies approved an increase to 4 percent of GDP, while Prime Minister Babiš suggested that these rules be even more relaxed, proposing an increase to minus 6 percent of GDP. I think it is possible to agree with these rules if there is a crisis. But it must also be said - and as it is in Germany that, in the coming years, and if the crisis goes away, there is, of course, a need to reduce the deficit of the state budget. That's how a responsible government should behave. What is also a mistake - and the Minister always says that we are doing this for people - but the mistake is that the government is wasting its income at a time of crisis. And I think that she had time to take the measures or those proposals that cost the state budget revenue could be adopted at a time when the so-called good was so-called good. If we're talking about so-called. the debt brake, so according to what is proposed in Mr Babiš's amendment, Prime Minister Babiš, so we should step on the debt brake in 2027 and within a few years the government debt could increase to up to CZK 3 trillion. And that's what bothers us. That the government is not only in debt at a time of crisis, which we can consider justified, but will be in debt head-on even in the coming years. And as I mentioned once before, what we know about debt. We know about the debts that have to be paid. Nobody wants the government to pay off all their debts. We know it in other states, the government debt is much higher. But the fact that debts are to be paid and have to be paid doesn't change the coronavirus either. And it will not be you, Minister Schillerová, but neither will we Members, but will be paid back by our children and our grandchildren. And not only that, they'll pay the bill for aging the population. And where are they gonna take it? The government isn't thinking about that. In this context, I would like to remind you of what you have in your government statement - I quote: "We do not want to discuss what awaits us in the future, but we want to do everything we can to make ourselves better, and we also want to give our children a prosperous country and economy. Let's just think about the future and not just live today. And let us realize that the future will not be easy, and our descendants will not forgive us for not doing everything we should and could do." And I'm just saying that in this case, the government is really going downhill against the wall, and we just don't want to join this ride. And in this case, I would recommend to the government that it brake at least a little while during this ride in the following years and tell us how it will brake. Then it would be a different discussion. At first reading, STAN will not support the State Budget proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u40	Thank you and Mr Jiří Dolejš will now speak in the general debate, Mr Feri will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear, perhaps half-empty House at the moment, I may be somewhat aware that there has been a lack of interest at the moment in the debate over the first reading of the state budget, because perhaps from the right wall to the left wall, we realize that, although we are debating the approval of the numbers that are with the big question mark, we are, on the other hand, seeing the time at which we live. That's basically my first point, because the basic parameters, income, output and deficit, if we approve, we probably suspect that, especially with regard to income and the deficit, they're going to be somewhere else. But on the other hand, by moving the budget clearance procedure by a month, we are today on November 11th. If the opposition Members here have already read the motion to return the budget, rework it and come here again by a month, i.e. essentially on December 11th, so we get into considerable time stress, but at the same time the unknowns won't be solved in the equation, i.e. even on December 11, we will not know the fate of the tax package, i.e. The legislative process still has a minimal continuation towards the Senate, and if I perceive the Ministry of Finance's observations on the update of forecasts, the Ministry has stated that it wants to present the forecast to the public - not that it is not working on the forecasts, but that it wants to present the forecast to the public in January, or that we will not have the current consolidated forecast either. So there's a little bit of a problem with the return. I think we're actually actually standing when we realize that these numbers are going to be different, that if we don't pass the budget at the end of this discussion, we're going to fall into the budget makeshift. I would remind you that this budget provisional is framed by this year's increased budget, i.e. a half-billion deficit, so we would follow these figures next year. Or maybe the option, which is also very real, is going to be so dynamic and there will be such significant changes that, let's say, maybe by spring we'll approve the amendment of this law, i.e. We're going to renegotiate the numbers anyway, but we're going to know not only the prognosis, but we're going to know how the epidemic is developing, not that I'm calling it, but maybe the third wave, etc. etc. And for these reasons, I think today's fight for whether or not we're going back is a bit futile. And that also implies the position of our club, although I must say that as a non-governmental party, we are not somehow mechanically loyal to every financial proposal that comes in, nor do we have it in our tolerance patent. But, again, we're not so crazy about not seeing that every government policy has to end up with money, it has to be paid, and therefore it needs some draft state budget. So that's the first point. [[12.30 hours]] The second comment relates to those forecasts that are being considered differently here, whether they will be better, worse, foreign forecasts are domestic forecasts. These forecasts show a certain variety of ranges according to when they were written and, of course, what facts they work with, because, of course, those prognostic institutions have some authority, but they also have different approaches. For example, we do not have the most up-to-date European forecasts yet, but they are somewhat more optimistic than our Czech ones, because they may also not be working with such a close idea of what the second wave will do to us. That's very possible. And they may also be working with the fact that they do not deal in detail with the effects of coronaviruses on international markets, which are extremely important to us. What is the reality is that spring lockdown led to our economy falling by 11 percent in the second quarter. And if we just zoom in on these numbers, of course our numbers are going to be very different this year and next year. It can be documented that the September forecast - the Ministry of Finance is working with it - says that this year's decline should be only 6.6 percent. The Czech National Bank has already published the November forecast, indicating 7.2 percent. So he's cautious, I'd say, more pessimistic. What may be even more important, because we are talking about next year, is the development next year, and there we hear, the European Commission once said that it will grow 4.5 percent plus, but the Ministry of Finance is careful with 3.9 percent and the Czech National Bank mentioned only 1.7 percent. So it assumes that there will be some effects that will slow the economy down. This can also be compared with the forecast of the Czech Banking Association, which is a bit younger, is from October, but it also lists 2% of economic growth, only. And this, of course, cannot be reflected in such parameters as income development, and if the recovery is later and more lukewarm, we will really see some adjustment in the spring of next year. Of course, the consequences of these changes will be quite clear. First, we get to the pre-crisis level later than we wanted, and those optimistic estimates were talking about 2022, less optimistic 2023, so this delay may occur. And, of course, we are getting to the problem of deficits and debts. The Ministry of Finance itself states in its medium term that we should be at 3 trillion by 2023. And it's actually an optimistic prognosis, essentially based on the numbers on which the budget is built and the budget outlook, which is one-third higher debt, because this year it's going to be 2 trillion, so 3 trillion, that's a whole third. So is it debt stabilization, or can we approach some kind of debt trap? This is, of course, something that should be very discussed in the longer term. And the question, of course, is whether the numbers we have at our disposal will suffice for such a discussion. In any case, it is clear that the softening of the law on budgetary responsibility is necessary if we are to continue with some legal framework, it is also, after all, part of the loaded amendments in the tax package. And, of course, the problem with the consolidation of public finances could be worse than we originally expected. This brings me to the fact that the House, you might remember, at the beginning of July, when we approved half a trillion, that's such a beautiful magical sum, so when we approved half a trillion, we added the task that it would be good for the Treasury to present its plan to us. Here you mentioned, Germany has a plan, everyone has a plan, and that we should have this plan. Well, I have to say frankly, the Ministry didn't want much to do that. Of course, there is a problem with numbers at that dynamic time, but it is also a problem that you have to put on a thin ice of reasoning that necessarily gets under political scrutiny. That is simply the case, because the State Budget Act is a policy and I believe that it will remain a politician. And now, of course, the question is, to what extent what is implicitly in ministerial materials is at least a hint of an adequate strategy. It was said here during the morning that this was a different procedure from 2009. In 2009, it was said that we would cut ourselves out of the crisis and it did not turn out to be happy, at least measured by the economic effects of the nation. The Czech Republic was relatively losing to other countries when it was about to emerge from the crisis. That is, of course, true, or a certain expansion must be seen as essentially an objective approach, but what is open is the form, the way in which the money is dealt with, to what extent. And from that, of course, we will come to the conclusion, whether budget expansion is a bridge to a better future, as the Secretary of State has painted, or whether we are essentially opening our arteries and now we are bleeding, and unfortunately, after we lose the substantial supply of our circulatory system that the money will fall, the blood, as the President said, will fall on the ground without blood. Well, that would be wrong, of course. Now, what are we supposed to lean on when we know today that we approve virtual numbers, but, let's just say, led by some responsibility, we're integrating it into that context? Well, if we asked for the concept, the Prime Minister first replied that everything relevant is actually already included in the draft state budget and in its medium term. True, there's a hint of those numbers for the first three years, and it says that 2021, and that's a fact, will be in a situation of necessary expansion. And in 2022 and 2023, fiscal efforts should begin to decline. So the budget expansion next year will undoubtedly be, it's about how big. And, of course, it is about how much less stimulating this budget effort would be, let's say, a half-percent drop, to what extent it would be enough to avoid the traps we're talking about. And here, unfortunately, we are still largely groping, which is why I speak as I speak. Because, of course, if we don't get clear about this, our assholes are kind of missing the point, because it's all about the fact that even though we've finally been presented with a certain delay in the concept, I think it's either yesterday or this morning, or by forwarding, so, of course, we have the consolidation at our disposal. But when you look at it, it is essentially and largely based on the arguments contained in the letters of the Prime Minister and the Minister, which means that we have a law on budgetary responsibility, we have a justification for the medium-term perspective, and that is the basic option, which is being worked with, and we said a moment ago that it will not pay. That the numbers would be different. And then at the end of that text, when you look at it, it's about ten pages, so one side, so about one tenth of that text, mentioned some alternative option that already works with the budget committee resolution, please, nicely, which is, of course, far from the end of the process, and the budget committee has discussed and raised its hand for the Prime Minister's variant. That means canceling a super gross wage will be like this. And, of course, this also applies to the extension of tax concessions, so the volume of the revenue-side blackout has a defined volume. And that's what this alternative is based on. And unfortunately, I have to say that this reasoning speaks of projection, but, of course, it does not nominally design the numbers in 2021 to 2027 with one basic argument, and that is that we are getting on the political ice, that actually some measures will have to be taken, but they are mentioned at random. For example, that we have a chance to use the allocation of additional European Union instruments or that there should definitely be a rationalization of expenditure. It's really random and I don't see at least enough room for what the mix of income and expenditure instruments should look like. So the task is accomplished, but the question marks, especially some, remain. [[12.40 hours]] And the fact that we are getting past the electoral horizon in these considerations means that another House with a new political mandate will sit here in 2021, that is true, but if we are talking about matters of long-term consolidation, if we are talking about how to avoid a certain debt trap, when the debt spiral is starting because there is a large amount of debt and a large price of debt, then of course that should not be tied to political promises and a political cycle, but it should go beyond that, because then of course there is a question of why the budget should not be entrusted to an independent authority at all, which would have flowed through it, and we have the independent authority, which is therefore in the form of a debt liability law. So from this point of view, I see a lot of question marks for the future of this budget, a lot of darkness. Of course, we can rationalise the structure, we will do so at second reading, but at this point, if I say that our club is ready not to slow down this process, then really just because we realize that the time is not, that it does not actually solve anything and that we need to continue this debate. And it's not just a debate over the amendments, but because it arrived yesterday or this morning, I would especially ask those who are, say, more experienced in this subject, to focus on the issues of consolidation, because it's not really about the restrictions, or expansion, but what expansion, how dosed expansion, how we're going to tread on the brake, because it's clear that there's going to be a shift in consolidation, the material says only a year, but the number, although I dare call untested, simply the experts at the Ministry said it was a year, but it could be two, three years, of course, it could be impacted on the debt brake, which is 55 percent, far earlier, because 3 billions are 47 percent of the share of GDP debt, the debt brake is on at 55, and if there was an impact on the debt brake earlier, let's say 2006, it has some consequences. It's already getting tight in the financial markets today, because everyone is borrowing, of course, and once the volume reaches some intensity, the financial markets will, of course, start stepping on the brakes, the prices will rise, we can even lose the beautiful rating that has been quoted here and which is current, but in a year, doesn't have to pay for two at all. And then there are really some considerations about the risk of debt spirals that we can approach, and that is why this debate, of course, has a purpose. That is why I would recommend, even if the first reading in these figures today goes through, not resigning to this kind of debate, in addition to the amendments that will undoubtedly come and can improve the better targeting of expenditure in particular, so focus on these issues. To put it on a specific case, before I'm completely finished, imagine that there's going to be a one-percent difference in annual volume, it seems like one percentage point, we need to get to that target of three-quarters of the structural deficit, one percentage point, if you make that GDP today, let's say, about six trillion, so one percentage point is 60 billion. And you're not really gonna find that lying on the sidewalk, that 60 billion, and you have to say whether you're gonna catch up with income measures or spending money. It's easy to say, and it's harder to do. If we've been briefed today by unnamed authority that since we're cutting all the debt exemptions, we have 300 billion on the table, and in 2022, the deficit will only be 100 billion, I'd like to see that. First, more than half of these exceptions are targeted so that it cannot be described as some kind of parasitism, there are social purposes and so on, and so on. And secondly, to move 300 billion in one year is more impact than that super gross wage we're talking about so intensely today. So please, let's put this into perspective, let's let this first reading go, no matter how much it hurts us, because I don't think we can fix it at these time intervals, but let's try to move things forward in our budgetary responsibility, define the corridor we have for the manoeuvre to keep it in some parameters, and open the debates, get ready for them, open the debates, because we're not going to run away from them, and if not economically, at least politically they're going to be part of the election campaign. That's just a perfectly clear thing to do today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u42	Thank you. Mr Dominik Feri will also speak in the general debate, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u43	Vice-President, I'm going to be a complete asshole now. I'm going to be an asshole because I'm going to ask the government about a subject that is actually foreign to her, and the subject is the perspective and future of young people. The fact that I am naive and that the government is completely going around and around here is clear from its previous legislative proposals and media priorities. The most exhilarating case of thinking by the end of the term is the so-called veiled, or CZK 5,000 to retire. When you look at the explanatory report on the proposal, there is an open presentation of 15 billion. Fifteen billion! I don't think there's anyone in this republic who doesn't realize that the money is owed. That if 5,000 are added one-off to the old-age pension, it's nothing but a hand stretched behind the back into the pockets of the old-age pensioner's grandsons. Another example where young people miss out on fiscal policy, but generally also on government policy in the broadest sense of the word, is, for example, the support of self-employed workers. Imagine the situation, you've studied some school, for example, you want to be a hairdresser, a hairdresser, you start a business, the government shuts you down, and then they ask you to pay your dues. You see in the media that there's some sort of compensation bonus going on, you expect it to go hand in hand, that it's really gonna be at least a small band-aid behind that closed establishment, that you can't do what you like, and that you can't do what you're alive and what you're good at, but then you find that the 500 bucks a day isn't really clean money on the table, the state's gonna bite off the bill. You may feel that this is no government support for young people, businessmen, in general young people. And it applies to everyone, whoever you are, whatever you are, whatever you are, the photographer, the stylist, whoever you are, the support is just not dignified. And yet, the Secretary of Finance will come here with a budget with a huge axe that would have been unimaginable not long ago. But we can continue. How are the young people working at the DPP and DPČ brigade? It doesn't matter if they work in the office, whether they work in the gastronomics industry or if they work in the agricultural sector. How do they get it? First of all, it must be said that the government's memory of them is the result of opposition pressure, because they have simply been forgotten. I will now leave aside that only a very small part of the workers at the DPP and DPČ will be able to achieve this support, because the Minister has swept it away with the fact that the others cannot be helped. I believe there was some logical reasoning behind this, but I'm a supporter of the password that when it really wants to, it's just something that goes along, and the support, I don't mean recipients or payers and health insurance participants. I mean, support for those who were really touched. [[12.50 hours]] Now take another situation. Okay, you work part-time at a restaurant or a club, for example, you're not entitled to a bonus because you're not involved in sickness insurance. So what? The government is not only going to give you nothing, but it's going to put your employer under the bus, whether it's the antivirus conspiracy and the compensation bonus, or whether it's the antivirus slides, where under the financial pressure of the first wave, somebody couldn't get to pay the levy, and now they're going to have to return the money, and now it's going to go bankrupt. So there's support for young people? Is fiscal policy done for everyone? And that's where three of my questions point to. Madam Secretary, do you even know that there are young people here in the Republic and there aren't many? That every year is 100,000 people? What's their perspective? How does the government expect them? Is the government even counting on them? And why do you want to owe them so massively? Because all attempts by the government to bribe voters, whether it's shady or anything else, are at the expense of young people. Madam Secretary, I ask you one thing: if you don't give anything to young people, please don't take anything away from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u44	Thank you. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will now appear, Mr Janda will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, the fundamental problem with this draft state budget is that the government is pretending that the tax package, which is just before the third reading, does not exist. Here we have a budget on the one hand, where the estimated axe is 320 billion, and then we have a tax package where we have a flat-rate diet, where we have a reduction in diesel tax, where we have a proposal from Mr Babiš to cancel the supergross wage at 15 per cent, with the budgetary implications of 90 billion in public budgets, and there are a number of other things. And the government is pretending that this press has nothing to do with the budget, that there's no need to include it in that budget. And we simply disagree with this approach. We think that the government should stick to its programming statement, which states that tax changes will take place long enough in advance to enable tax entities to prepare for them. That means, by the time the state budget is approved, it's supposed to be pretty clear what the taxes will be. And if it's not clear, then all we have to do is wait for the budget. That is why we propose to return this document to the recast. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u46	I thank Mr Ferjenčík and now Mr Jakub Janda will speak, Mrs Valachová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u47	Hello, thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, this has already been said, and it is likely to be said several times, but it must be said again. I don't imagine a responsible budget like that. I understand there is a need for crisis solutions in times of crisis. However, the budget deficit of 320 billion is not only too high but mainly under-founded. Moreover, given the government's spending appetite, it is quite possible that it will be even worse in the finals. The eloquent figure is almost 43 percent of GDP of the general government sector's debt. Terrible number. Likewise, it must be recalled that the government did not act responsibly in terms of budget, even in better economic times. Just like a guy who buys a fancy house and lives in a foolish fantasy that he's gonna take a lot of money forever, and suddenly he's so surprised he doesn't have to pay off. Words such as budgetary responsibility or budgetary discipline may sound more like a joke to the current government Garniture. But not for us ODS, in times of economic favor, even in times more gloomy than these. Even less drastic debt can be done to help an economy affected by coronavirus. In July, we presented a rescue circle for the economy. A program that would cost much less, but it might produce even better results. Unfortunately, the government goes not only through the necessary support, but also through unnecessary spending, and is in favour of those electoral groups where it still suspects some leftover support. Not to mention the need for investment, where the government still has a lot to catch up on, even if 10 per cent of the budget is stuck in capital spending, but I, for example, do not see the potential investment in the Danube-Odra-Labe channel, which is a lot to talk about as useful. I would stop at the sport chapter, especially the budget plans relating to the National Sports Agency. Last year, the Ministry of Education had a total volume to support sport through subsidies of CZK 7 billion. However, the Agency intends to make subsidies of around 6.8 billion in total. I'd like to know where the $200 million cut went. That's not very little, especially nowadays, when sport literally fights for every crown. Although there has been an increase of about 100 million to the promotion of sports activity itself, less is calculated to support major sporting events. This can be understood with regard to covid, when a number of actions may not take place at all, but we should certainly ask whether a larger allocation will be envisaged in the future. There are also some issues raised in me by the new system of distribution of funds into the programme, as the Agency proposes. The proposal for a new division into the programme certainly makes sense and as a basis for setting up a new system it can be very interesting and maybe it will bring more funds, funds, to support sports activities, for example, into the My Club programme. However, the money may then be missing from important sporting events or other areas that are not mentioned in the proposal for new programmes. This mainly concerns the issue of the preparation of young talents at sports grammar schools or universities. Will the aid be granted in the future? After all, we will not be able to know much about the promotion of the sports grammar schools themselves on this subject even at the Ministry of Education, after all I will be asking the Minister about it tomorrow during the interviews, because precisely in the context of planned investments this is an area which deserves great attention and would be very useful. However, in order not to just criticise, I must commend the separate inclusion of aid for the renewal of sport infrastructure. The breakdown of expenditure into the financing programme itself is certainly a step in the right direction. But even here, I have to say "nothing." I don't know how much the coordination of sports and related activities between individual government offices is going on. The Ministry of Regional Development normally described the subsidy mechanism for the promotion of sports infrastructure, which was always about 300 million. Is it coordinated with the agency? How? After all, this is not just about some conflicts of competence, but also about the effective use of funds intended for sport. But I'm gonna stay with the Ministry of Regional Development for a while. The responsibilities that we gave to the National Agency during the amendment to the Sport Support Act include, among other things, the fact that the National Sports Agency provides support and tourism through budgetary means. However, this area was usually financed from the resources of the Ministry of Regional Development. And isn't there a collision? And speaking of responsibilities, or more precisely, the Agency also has the task of coordinating the activities of resort sports centers that fall under the departments of education, defence and the interior. Here I wonder if the Agency discussed their budgets with them and coordinated their form, because, for example, the Dukla Army Sports Centre's largest centre in Dukla's budget chapter explicitly states that the real form of allocated appropriations for the years 2022 and 2023 will evolve according to the results of negotiations with the National Sports Agency, which should prepare an amendment to the Sport Support Act governing the allocation of subsidies to sports organisations. However, I must commend the increase in funds by 70 million in particular in the part of the programme funding, which includes the reconstruction of the athletic hall in Juliska. In general, I am also glad that it is still envisaged for sport financing to reach 1% of the state budget by 2025, as indicated in the Action Plan on the SPORT 2025 concept. In light of the government's slipping away with earlier promises about a percentage increase in defense spending, I ask: Isn't that a little ambitious? And don't you need to think about updating the action plan to the Sport 2025 concept? [[13.00 hours]] Some passages of the NSA chapter, however, are somewhat mysterious or simply incomprehensible, as if written by the scriptwriter of the British series Sure, Minister. For example, for the medium-term budgetary perspective, we will read: "The assessment of the processing of special and professional agendas, especially in investments and their control, as well as the assessment of public support and cooperation with international institutions requires a set of services to be provided by external capacities'. I'd be happy to have it explained by human language, what the poet meant by it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u48	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, it's 13 o'clock, I have to interrupt you, there will be a lunch break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u49	I've got it for a minute, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u50	If you have it for a minute, I'll let you finish, I'm sure it's possible. [[Member Janda: Yes, thank you.]] Colleagues will be tolerant. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u51	Then we have doubts about some expenses. For example, the Agency shall: found that 17 additional officials would be needed to process applications for subsidies. Didn't you know that before? Before that, they did it at the Ministry of Education, and even the regional authorities have no problem with that. The explanation also deserves an increase in the membership of international organisations by half a million. Four times the increase in expenditure, i.e. from 19 to 21 million, is also designed at the anti-doping center. [[Nesroz.]] I would like to know what new requirements and activities are, because I still remember very well as a top athlete how insufficient capacity the anti-doping centre had and how almost they were operating on their knees. Especially here is really for a big discussion whether we should strengthen the anti-doping center much more and on a larger scale. There are many questions, and I hope that the ministers mentioned will answer them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u52	I thank Mr Jand. As I have announced, the lunch break will now follow. I shall adjourn the Chamber of Deputies until 14.30. I remind the members of the Organizing Committee that the meeting of the Organizing Committee will begin in five minutes, and we will all meet here at 14:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u53	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Member of the Government, we will continue after a lunch break in today's meeting when we are discussing paragraph 510, the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2021. Before we continue to discuss this point, I'll introduce you to your apologies. The Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes to us today from 14.30 to the end of the meeting day for work reasons and the Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the meeting day for work reasons. So, as I said, we will continue to discuss the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2021. This is Parliament's press 1067, we are first reading. We interrupted the discussion of this point earlier today before the midday break. I welcome the Minister, who will take her place at the rapporteur's table, and Mrs Vostrá should take her place as rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets. I've already started, so I believe he'll be here soon. And now we will continue the interrupted general debate, where I am gradually applying to Mrs Valachová, then to Mr Martínek, Mr Grospič and others. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u54	Mr President, fellow Members, Dear Government, Minister of Finance, let me also comment on the draft law on the State Budget for 2021. I will also respond to some of my previous speakers. First of all, I would like to say that I support the draft state budget, as it is presented, including the deficit, and I will support it at first reading. The reason is simple, and I think it is clear that we are going through a very difficult test, which is undoubtedly the fight against COVID-19 is, and we need resources to keep the economy running, and not only that, of course, we return very quickly to the original condition of our economy and, if possible, to take this opportunity into account by changing at all the nature of our economy, our economy and our future through well-targeted funds that will support the economy through the state budget. Therefore, even the amount of deficit has my support. So I do not share the concerns that have been raised here and called for belt tightening. I agree that we have tried this trip once before, it has failed. And it can be said that all the economies of the world agree that deficits are not a problem at this time. The problem, of course, would be if we misdirected, targeted and misinvested the funds, and I think that's in no way our case. It has been said here - this is how I respond to the speakers through you, Mr President - from Mr Skopeček's mouth that perhaps the government of the ANO movement and social democracy have managed, therefore, with crazy deficits. I'm paraphrasing that, of course. Of course, it's not true, and Mr. Skopeček knows it. koneckonců all, I myself criticized, in various examples of the budget, that the proposal - yes, deficit budgets were proposed during the period of growth, but it is also true that they ended up in balance, or even with the surplus, which I think is quite a big thing from the point of view of citizens. This means, in this period of growth, it ended up being balanced, or even with the surplus. So I think it would be good for us to really, and we often call on it here today, to tell the truth and also to describe the facts as they are. I note that the proposals and then the results that were different, I also criticized after all, even the present finance minister has always tried to match the proposal and the objective, but we have already explained many times why the predictions have been difficult in recent years. Another thing I would like to say, and I think it belongs to the first reading of the budget, in recent years public finances have consolidated both the state and the municipalities and the regions. We have also invested a great deal of money in the regions, in the territory, in recent years. Here I think it is necessary to point out that the state, municipalities and regions were in very good shape at the time of the crisis in terms of the management of public funds. I am convinced that this is also one of the reasons why we are doing relatively well in terms of macroeconomic data, both to the state and, after all, to our regions and municipalities. Of course, what I have to say is that the fact that tax changes are currently taking place, sometimes by a large majority of the House, and therefore the changes in the tax mix during the economic cooling period, which is not always seen in macroeconomics as desirable and happy, so of course it also affects the amount of finance in the territory, which means it affects the budgets of municipalities and regions. I'd like to say here that, of course, I'm very concerned. You know that a few days ago we were discussing possible compensations towards the regions, for example, but I believe that our overall approach, our government, both in the next budget and in the outlook and in other measures towards municipalities and regions, has been and will continue to be fair and, of course, we will ensure that regions or municipalities do not, for example, receive loans from private banks or European money through the European Investment Bank in a situation that they cannot obtain these funds. Because it is clear that grant policy in the coming years will certainly not be as rich as we were used to at the time of economic growth. What does not change, and I appreciate this from the perspective of the draft budget, is that we will continue to support significant investments in the regions and in the direction of our municipalities and regions. This has been repeatedly praised here, and I think that supporting investment in terms of further development, the start-up of the economy is well processed in the budget. In conclusion, I will address the other special expenses in general. Of course, I am very pleased that the budget of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports is growing at this point in time and that we are ready for education, and there is great agreement on this, to issue more. On the other hand, I will admit that at the time of the economic transition, because the economy is actually being reborn from the point of view of the world to some extent thanks to coronavirus, so I think that at this time we might deserve even more ambitious investment towards education. And I would be very happy to add information to the recovery plan and to the great European resources that will be directed to our country in the coming years to support, for example, digitalisation, education support not only for children, students, pupils, but also for further adult education. I think that this is a major challenge, without a doubt, a recovery plan, and a large amount will be set for this within the European money. As I say, I will be glad if the Secretary of Finance describes this even more and more at first reading. Thank you for your attention at the moment. I think we should talk about the general parameters as part of the first reading. As I have already said, I will support the budget and, of course, I will look forward to the debate in the next reading of the budget, when I am already going to deal with my heart issues, that is education and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u55	Thank you. And Mr Munzar will respond to your speech with a factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u56	Yes, thank you, Mr President. I want to respond by your means to the words of my colleague Valachová, who has repaired my colleague Skopeček, who is not here. I'll take his place. Well, when you call on your Member to tell the truth, let us also tell ourselves how the budget of the state ended in 2019, at a time when economic growth was in our country. At a time when it wasn't about covideo and pandemic, neither seen nor heard. At that time in 2019 the state budget ended with a deficit over economic growth of 28.5 billion. Crowns. And he ended up with this deficit just because you put in the reserves from the privatisation account of 18 billion. If you didn't spend it, those reserves that are so missing today, that deficit would still be about 18 billion. taller. So please, since you're fixing us, look at the way you've managed those six years. There has been no reform, no stabilization of the state's public finances. The Supreme Audit Office has even stated in 2018 and in 2019 that state finances and state budgets are far worse prepared for a possible crisis than at the time of the previous crisis. So please, if you want to fix us, look at the result for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u57	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mrs Valachová came forward first, then the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u58	So, of course, I am glad through the President that my colleague Munzar guards, as a hawk, the response to previous speakers from the Civil Democratic Party. And then I want to remind you that I didn't correct anyone, but I paraphrased the speech of my colleague Skopeček, who, if I remember correctly, took into the mouth the government of Bohuslav Sobotka, and, of course, us, and described how here, at this time, he succeeded with the deficit. Because it's not true, so I thought it was necessary to state it, and I insist. At the time, finance was either balanced or surplus. As far as 2019 is concerned, I do not question what Mr Munzar has said to the plenary, it is true. It really was. The last year we managed with a slight, slight deficit. However, even here, what I said in my speech was true, which means that the proposal, let's say, was more skeptical, and in the end, the management turned out better. As regards the findings of the Supreme Audit Office, I have long been engaged in public systems and the organisation of public services in public systems. I will in no way question the conclusions of the Supreme Audit Office, but the conclusion was, after all, what my colleague Munzar said. In short, we are in a worse condition in quotation marks than before the 2008 crisis, 2010 in view of the possible management of such a repeated situation. But I think, through Mr President, that my colleague Munzar will certainly confirm that what we are facing, what we are facing, is not the economic crisis, it is a fatal planetary disaster, and I therefore think that the very conclusions of the Supreme Audit Office were not aimed at and could not be prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u59	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark from the Minister, then Mr Munzar again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u60	So I'm not going to react now to what kind of HDP, I'm not going to say it until the closing argument, so I'm taking notes. Even for the 18 billion. That's all over again, Mr. Munzar. Well, I'm gonna say it again, because I can't leave it without an answer. Act on the abolition of the National Property Fund. It was your governments, it wasn't you, it wasn't me, it wasn't you, it wasn't you, it wasn't you, it wasn't me, but since we're already doing this ping-pong thing, which we just did, it was ex-minister Kalousek, that it came into this law that... under what conditions money from this privatization fund could be transferred to the state budget. Because before that, also for your governments, they were transferred completely outside the state budget, and they were billions. Tens and hundreds of billions. And that's where it was put in that if the social security is collected, it's going to be lower than what's being spent on pensions, so that money can be transferred to the state budget. Well, for the last three years, this selection has been higher. So the money piled up there. And we just wanted this condition, meaningless, which you put there at a time when you thought that there would never be more to be collected from insurance than to be spent on pensions - so now we are choosing less than we are publishing, but the three years were roughly chosen to transfer it to the state budget, and this Chamber of Deputies decided on how to deal with them. That was it. And the money wasn't from the privatization accounts anymore. The money was from dividends from state companies, mostly ČEZ. That's all. And I was saying at the time, and I'm gonna say it again, that it was supposed to be screaming at the time of 250, 350 billion. That wasn't screaming!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u61	Thank you. And Mr Munzar will respond with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u62	Thank you. Just a short visit to my colleague Valachová. Let me just remind you that even under Sobotkův's government, there was a budget deficit of 62 billion in 2015. koruna minus. In 2014, although I admit that Sobotkův's government started in January 2014, so that the influence is partial, it was almost 78 billion. CZK, but Sobotkův's government ruled almost a year, in 2014. However, I rather want to respond to the Minister. Well, to hear from the Treasury Secretary that it's a nonsense condition that reserves will be used in case there isn't enough choice for social security to be on pensions, so we'd rather spend the reserves at the time of the abode, well, your performance, Madam Secretary, just confirms the way you manage your trust funds. For you, there is a pointless condition that the reserve is supplemented in case of a real need. You want to spend them right now? I think we should have just saved those reserves for cases like this. And I agree with my colleague Valachová that this is unprecedented. But certainly, let colleagues try to compare it with the last crisis, the crisis today is completely different, because today the government's decision is to shut down the economy. However, Madam Secretary, the fact that it is pointless that it is complementary to the reserves of possible outages when there is less choice and it is not for pensions, and it is better to spend them in times of economic growth, it really only declares the way in which you manage state resources in the long term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u63	Thank you. And before we move forward in the general debate, I will introduce the House with a note. Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček apologizes to us today for afternoon negotiations for work reasons. I now ask Mr Martínek, who will be next in the general debate, to prepare Mr Grospič. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the words of President Miloš Zeman, who once again spoke about winning 250 billion in his speech. CZK to the budget by abolishing tax exemptions, which allegedly cost up to 380 billion in total. Last year he mentioned 318 billion. As pirát, we take the President's words seriously, and that is why we have analyzed the resources that President Zeman probably spoke of. In this context, I also interviewed Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová in writing. Indeed, the materials provided indicate that almost 320 billions can be obtained by abolishing all tax exemptions from personal income tax. Crowns. Of this amount, however, the largest part - 33 percent would result in the cancellation of the taxpayer's discount, 19 percent would result in the taxation of pensions and benefits or services from pension insurance, 13 percent would result in the taxation of health insurance, and thus the reduction of health funds, 11 percent would result in the abolition of the benefit to children. [[14.50 hours]] The other concessions amount to around 24 percent of the amount in question. These include the exemption of social support benefits, sickness insurance benefits, welfare benefits, the fulfilment of state employment policy, meal vouchers, assistance in material distress, the service of soldiers and security forces of the state, scholarships and a discount on wife, disability and others. This also includes amounts reducing the tax base, such as interest on loans for housing financing, supplementary pension contributions and insurance, donations for community service activities, blood collection or authorities. It is evident that about 90 percent of the total is almost 320 billion. The koruna is a relief of social character. As pirát, we do not want to disturb the systemic concessions of solidarity, as President Miloš Zeman suggests. On the contrary, we repeatedly propose to increase the discount on the taxpayer, which would now and according to the study of VŠE and others help to boost the economy by increasing household consumption. According to the Ministry of Finance's documents, it would be possible to bring about 13 billion to the budget. CZK by abolishing all tax advantages also for corporate tax. This is, for example, a deduction of expenditure on science and research, education, donations, tax reductions for the employment of people with disabilities and others. In this context, the pirát have already submitted a proposal to abolish the exemption of income from the sale of the company of over CZK 20 million and other adjustments which the other parties have unfortunately rejected to the Committee on Budgets. According to the Ministry of Finance material, another 53 billion would go. obtain the reduced rate of VAT, and thus by increasing the price of such goods, by adding it to the higher rate. Further resources could be obtained according to the Ministry of Finance if none, including the smallest self-employed persons, were exempt from VAT and if VAT were applied to rents. I personally support the abolition of certain tax exemptions, such as our proposal to abolish the exemption of income when selling large companies. I am also signed under the proposal to limit the tax deductibility of investment life insurance and others. However, these proposals can only bring resources in the amount of billions of crowns. President Miloš Zeman wants to earn 250 to 318 billion. In order to obtain the required income from tax relief, the State would have to cancel the discount on the taxpayer, children and tax pensions. In addition, it would also tax other social benefits. I can't imagine, and I hope the president doesn't mean it. I thought Miloš Zeman would be president of the bottom ten million, not the top ten thousand. It now supports annual debt by 90 billion. canceling a supergross wage at a lower rate, which helps the richest. Instead, it fights to increase the discount on the taxpayer, which helps medium and low-income. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u65	Thank you. Madam Secretary is reporting with an answer, so I'm gonna give her the opportunity to speak with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u66	Thank you. Then I will only respond briefly to Mr Martínek. Well, Ambassador, I partly agree that you're right. Nobody's talking about the social exclusion. But when the amount - Mr. President, when he spoke last year, if I remember correctly, he was talking about exceptions, you also have to judge at what prices. It has some value, the expression. So he was talking about an assessment then, I think in 2016. So I wouldn't play here if it was 318 or 380 or 250. But I would say, I've been here for the three years I've been Minister of Finance, three years in December, so I've been trying to enforce a cancellation in a couple of packages, or not a cancellation, just a limitation of the tax exemptions. That was a fuss! I'm not saying you did. I don't know who right now. I could totally... Not you, not you, Mr President, not you, not you, not you. You're not involved in tax exemptions. Well, if your colleague is behind you, you certainly aren't. You know, I just wouldn't dare blame you for that in my life. Yes, you're cooperating, that's right. That's right. So I'm just gonna remind you of some of them. That was a fight. The president here reminded the boiler rooms. He really was right. I was the one who said that at the time, CZK 25, grant of $100 million, only went to make it systemically straighten out. It didn't work out. Then I put 20 in the package to cancel the release of gambling prizes. [[2020?]] Why is this to be set free? I mean, we have people who may have won $2 billion. We just have these cases. Why shouldn't they pay a tax? I finally put, I think, a limit of 100,000 after the government debate, and here I had to retreat to a million. I don't know what else. Yeah, subtract for mortgages. It's a distortion, too. And the biggest fight ever, the biggest fight I've ever played here, and I'm lucky it came out because it was in two years for 20 billion, that was the creation of insurance reserves. For over 20 years, the exemption for insurance companies. Basically, they were making tax-recognizable reserves as they wanted. This was done thanks to the Chamber of Deputies, but I fought for it for a very long time. And it was really, it just does it in one year and the other year 10 billion, 10 billion. Not nearly possible. That was the biggest one yet. So it's, uh, lobbyist interests, and what's just happening with the meal break, well, that's unbelievable. Unbelievable. And so I'm determined to fight it out, the meal breaker, I'm going to fight hard for it. And we're not even interrupting the food stamps. We didn't even go into such a hard fight that one of my predecessors once tried to fight, and he didn't win it. Now I understand why. Now I'm saying I understand why. It's incredible how they walk around here, they just lobby among the MPs. I'm not even gonna describe what's going on here. To me, quite a few of our fellow Members, who had just walked them away, it told me. Unbelievable. And when they realized I wouldn't give up, I wouldn't give up, so at least now they're just trying to lobby here to get through the purpose. Meaning, the poor employee who gets the couple of crowns of the meal breaker should still be carrying receipts that he bought some ketchup and cheese spaghetti for it somewhere over there? So that's about it. That's the fight. So she's not so complete about the truth. So don't attack the President, he's definitely not social (?). I've discussed it with him x-times, he can be discussed, I'll go, we're agreed, I have a table of exceptions, I know what's politically real and what's not. It's not like I'm here on Friday. But on the other hand, whatever comes in here, it's like you're tearing your liver out of your body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u67	Thank you. With factual remarks, Mr Ferjenčík first, then Mr Martínek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u68	Thank you for the floor. I was going to ask the secretary, when he's fighting tax exemptions like this - and we often support her, we're the only party with the TOP 09 that's holding that position on the diet, which hopefully will get this thing going. Anyway, I wonder if the YES movement will support our proposal to abolish the tax exemption, which exempts the sale of securities over CZK 20 million from tax. So we've proposed a compromise that shouldn't be set free from 20 million upstairs. Just when someone sells the company for x billion, there's no reason for the state not to take anything out of it when all the other tax revenues. If the YES movement supports it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u69	Thank you. And now, Mr Martínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u70	Thank you. I didn't understand exactly where it was said. But otherwise I'll take it, I agree. I think the pirát are always trying to act in harmony. I don't think that was said against us. [[- It wasn't.]] I'm glad. I just want to explain the meaning of my contribution, which should have simply responded to when the President here says that it can be achieved without any major problems de facto, as it came out of the speech, by increasing the revenue of the state budget by 250 billion. some 380 billion. And that simply cannot be done if we do not cancel the social exemptions, or, respectively, those social issues, such as the contribution to children, such as the discount on the taxpayer, such as the exemption from tax. I mean, I don't know if the president thinks he wants to tax pensions, so he can say it directly, because if he's just having fun in general or he's saying some minor things like this 100 million, as you indicated, which is a completely different order than that 250 billion. About the cauldron subsidies, so of course it's different. And I wouldn't put a lot of food stamps into it. We will, of course, support it. You must know that, according to our vote on the budget, this is what is proposed, but this increases the discounts, or the tax exemptions. The budget will lose up to 20 billion. according to some studies, if this is implemented. Yes, the D.O.D. declares 4 billion. , but also 4 billion. There's another blackout, of course. So, of course, I don't think that's exactly what I'm going to do to bring in the new income, because it's going to cut the revenue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u71	Thank you. Madam Secretary will still respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u72	Well, it's just that you didn't listen last time, Mr. Ambassador, when we had the package at second reading, or maybe you weren't here to make me wrong you. No, I'm sure you've declared publicly that you'll support the meal break, thank you for that, I appreciate it, I appreciate it, anyone who supports the meal break. It's about 2.5 to 3 billion. Assuming that a million employees who don't have any benefits today would all employers decide to give them, which we don't expect. But it can happen again that someone trades it for food stamps, we'll see, that's their business. Do you know how they came up with the 20? I've been saying this in plenary, and I've been sending you, Chairman of the Budget Committee, I think I've been sending material where we're directly contradicting it. Those 20 billion. ČMKOS calculated so - they don't report to it, that's what I said here too, I opened it up in tripartite, I say I'll explain it so we can just have a debate about it, and Mr. Středula said: we didn't count, that's what some former deputy from the Ministry of Finance counted. I don't know which one, if he meant Mrs. Hornochová, I don't know, he didn't name her, I won't touch anyone's conscience, maybe that's not true. Those 20 billion. It's based on the fact that all employees, whatever they've got, come out of the assumption that they're going to go on a meal break. The employer steals from them - I'm gonna use it here - the amount of the paycheck, which means they're gonna lower their paycheck by the value of the meal voucher, today may be about CZK 131 a day, that's the maximum, then of course it could be less, so he's gonna tell him, I don't know, $1,300, so that's what we're gonna cut your paycheck. I just can't. It's a bilateral legal act, they'd have to make a deal. There's just some collective bargaining going on. And it's like it's calculated to lose the state, social and health, so nonsense. It's just nonsense. And I'm only going to enter the Treasury numbers that we stand up for, and they're being exaggerated because they're based on a million employees who have nothing today, which isn't entirely likely, but we're doing the maximistic versions. Mr Ferjenčík's question - I will look into it. I was texting the deputy right now so I could... But he tells the chairman of the Committee on Budgets that this is what the Committee on Budgets has recommended. You didn't? Oh, okay, I'll take a look. And hopefully I've said everything. Is there anything else you asked me to remember when I'm so excited? [[No.]] Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u73	Well, thank you. I did not dare to interrupt the Minister, but I would like to call the House to the point. After all, we are discussing the state budget at first reading. I now have here with factual remarks from Mr Martínek's place and then Mr Hrnčíř. Mr Martínek, if he wishes to make a factual point. Mr Martínek prefers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u74	One more, really ten seconds. I'm sure the President didn't mean - and I'm behind it and I have to say it here when you said it in the dime - that pensions should be taxed. I'm sure you didn't. Take this - sometimes it is forgotten here and I sometimes hear: in Germany, pensions are like this, here they are. But in our country, they're not tax-free, they don't pay social and health, we've got, like, a fare, we've got different drug discounts, and so on. These are all the things that when you add up - in Germany they tax the pensions - so if you add all this up, then it's sometimes comparing pears to apples. And I'm sure that's not what the President meant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u75	Thank you. Mr Martínek with a point of fact, then Mr Hrnčíř. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u76	Of course, I'd be happy to finally find out what Mr. President meant, because 250 billion. - he was talking about 250 billion. Of 380 -- of course, the 250 billion. it has to be achieved somehow, and there are some possibilities that are quite limited. One of them is the pensions, so if he didn't mean pensions, he meant canceling the discount on the taxpayer or thinking canceling the child allowance. So what exactly did he want to do? I'll be happy to know for myself, and of course, if you have that information, what the President meant specifically when I hear it, because otherwise it just feels like the manipulation of people when we say here: we have backups, we have reserves here in tax relief of 250 billions. - but what's the point? So we're gonna take away the taxpayer's discount, we're gonna take away your kids' discount and all that, like, those tax breaks we're talking about? Because that's the absolute majority of what these tax breaks are. And I'm taking the meal plan, yes, the studies are different that estimate the impact, the Ministry estimates lower, some other studies estimate higher, but it's still the impact that reduces the revenue of the state budget. It's not something that when it's introduced, it brings money, but it's the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u77	Thank you. Mr Hrnčíř at this time, with a final factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will just briefly comment on what has been said on the budget. So it's true that the meal voucher extends exceptions, it's not that it's waning, it's another extra exception, and there's no tool as designed, how to prevent wage optimization. It's just like technically on the edge. But I wanted to talk about something else. I wanted to comment more on what was said on the budget. Our first Czechoslovak finance minister, Dr. Rašín, had a password that he kept his whole life. He said work and save. Our government doesn't spare, it works. He works hard to break up public finances and bankruptcy of the Czech Republic. It is not possible when the Republic is in the situation in which it is located to continuously generate deficits. Next year, nearly 300 billion are due. bonds will need to be paid, and the government borrows, cuts debts and does not want to save in any way. The cost of government administration is growing unhappyly, the number of civil servants is growing, and the government is pretending that nothing is happening. I think we will all remember this government for a long time. It's not a tear in the eye, it's a tear. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u79	Thank you, thank you for the time being, and now Mr Grospič has come to the general debate, Mr Klaus will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u80	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, I would also like to say a few words about the draft state budget in the first reading that we are discussing here today and which raises a lot of emotion, and I think that it will arouse a lot of emotion both in the second and third reading and will have its end of the state budget next year, because the situation that occurred not only in the Czech Republic, in Europe and in a number of countries in the world is very unknown how the current pandemic situation will develop and how it will affect the economy and what will affect and affect the Czech Republic. So from my point of view, personally, everything is a very inaccurate estimate of inaccurately qualified numbers, and if we were to stand here now and draw up a state budget with some kind of at least precise prediction, then we would have to go into the budget provisional, meet sometime at the end of February or March, and come out of the solid statistical data that will be this year, and say, this is how it develops or begins to develop at the beginning of the following year. This would be the exact, qualified estimate on which to build some optimistic data, but also to be realistic about what can and cannot be considered as investments that can or cannot be threatened by an epidemiological situation. Unfortunately, many citizens have very common concerns, which are also emotionally amplified by the media, which bring very contradictory information about what is actually going on with this disease, with this disease, in our society. Just turn on the Czech TV or other media in the morning and within two hours you will get five six opinions completely contradictory from renowned people who feel the need to express themselves in a qualified way. A common citizen can take nothing positive from this except to be afraid and feel as much as possible that if he follows the basic hygiene rules, nothing can happen to him. And that's where we come up with the big investigative debate on the state budget and the deficit of 320 billion. Crowns. In addition, there is a tax package hanging like Damoklův's sword, which will be discussed only after the first reading of the state budget, which is wrong from my point of view, and the very fact that it was presented to him, including the tax package, many amendments - and there are the most significant proposals, and that is very curious, Prime Minister, Prime Minister Babiš, Vice-President Havlíček, Vice-President of the Government Hamáček - and, as a result, of course, will mean various deficits, which will also be reflected in the budgetary situation in the Czech Republic. [[15.10 hours]] However, the above facts lead me to the question of the Minister of Finance, why the taxation of church restitution under Law 125/2019 amending Act No. 428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies. As a reminder, I am referring to this because this law, by law No. 428/2012, has, in the light of the provisions of § 15 para. However, I draw attention to the fact that the Constitutional Court published in the Collection of Laws under No. 303/2019 Coll. in its finding of 1 October 2019 in its finding of 1 October 2019. in the second opinion, he rejected the application for annulment of Law No 125/2019 as a whole and left its Article 1 in force, thus allowing the taxation of the financial compensation. Thus, for more than one year the government has remained inactive, has not taken any step towards fulfilling this law number 125/2019, so that it may now be able to obtain the necessary funds for the state budget. I would like the Minister to make an explanation for this, because even in the reasoning in the Constitutional Court's judgment, it is quoted several times that, in the event that contracts are argued that they are concluded, it can be stated that the Constitutional Court's finding does not, in substance, fulfil any of the fact that by amending Law 428/2012 there could be a breach of legitimate expectations in the modification of contracts concluded and that there is no breach of legitimate expectations. This is quoted in the reasoning, and it is clear, and everyone can read it. In this context, I would just like to say that the State will pay up 44 percent of the property held by municipalities, regions, that is a very well-known thing, many years of being licensed, in a financial form of 59 billion, which is roughly 2 billion. annually, but it also calculates the rate of inflation. According to the current version, the rate of inflation is calculated in accordance with Section 15 of the quoted Act of the year... two years older, i.e. currently in 2018, was 2.1 % at the time according to the rate set by the Czech National Bank, which is 42 million. CZK to roughly two billion. So that's another hypothetical question that needs to be outlined here when reading the state budget. I do not expect the Minister to react in any way, but I think that the space here for the government was clearly set up and spoken by the Constitutional Court, and the government has basically been inactive for a year. She didn't respond to the discovery. She simply took him as a matter of being thrown off the table, but he is not completely thrown off the table by the Constitutional Court's find and played as a government, so that the government would do and propose and do something. Then I will allow myself to make a line that has been made by my previous speakers, and I do not want to be confused now whether, through Mr Skopeček's President or by someone else from the Civil Democratic Party, which has dealt with the Labour Code and the United States of America. We don't want to go the way of the United States of America, which has one of the worst employment adjustments in the world. Not to mention that each Member State of the United States of America regulates this in its own jurisdiction. This is not a way for the Czech Republic. Or what we want to say is that we want to feel so liberal that we don't sign any employment contracts that we're going to make it possible for the employment statement to be possible without any reason, such as here. once when asked so called. The cursarbeit was outlined by the chairman of the TOP 09, Mrs. Markéta Pekarová Adamová? Or do we, as American workers, negotiate a holiday for public holidays, including Christmas, and respect whether the employer, yes, closes collectively or voluntarily respects it or in some way benefits the employees? This is simply not the way of modern labour lawmaking. And I firmly believe that, and I mention it here, even if it doesn't have anything to do with the state budget, it's not even a way to look for savings in the state budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u81	Thank you. And now, Mr Klaus, Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, allow me to introduce you to the position of the Tricolor movement on the draft State budget submitted for 2021. We're living in a very difficult time, state finances are on pulmonary ventilation, or rather some kind of extracorporeal circulation, and I don't really believe what I've been hearing here this morning for debates. Words about how we will invest in the future, about the investment budget, etc., are, Madam Secretary, a matter which evokes me that you do not know what you are defending here. Let's go back a year. Exactly a year ago, I stood here and suggested a 50-bn cut in expenses. explaining that at a time when the conjucture is present, at a time when the economy and society are in progress, it is not possible to have a loss-making budget. That we must prepare for the hard times that may come. Of course, I didn't know those hard times were gonna be that hard. At the time, with the same arguments, you mocked me here, and with your government majority, you rejected this proposal. So you acted irresponsible last year. Socialists of all kinds and types here from right to left through the House have already enlarged the state and eaten from within that it ceases to be viable to address any crisis, not just this huge one we have. What to do? What is the greatest threat now? In my opinion, as a convinced old Democrat, I am most terrified of the liquidation of the middle class and of the associated political consequences. Unfortunately, we experienced it several times in the 20th century. There's a threat, and it's already a reality, the collapse of state finances, there's either hyperinflation at the door, possible bank-sector shocks, and you keep pretending that debt is okay and no one's paying it. You're lying to people! None of you who vote in favour of it act like this at home. You're acting like that here because you're looking the farthest until next October that you might not be here in a year. But I have to sign up for Alois Rašín again, you've already talked about him here, who said the Republic isn't a milk cow. The debts we are now making, those will not be paid by our children and grandchildren, they will be paid by us and our current depositors. Let's not paint this situation pink. Do you think about the people who feed the republic? Who's paying the taxes? It is really appropriate to rethink a number of things and to slim the state very significantly. Do we really have to support political non-profits at this time? Do we have to have a Senate? Nonsense regions? Isn't 100 Members enough for us here? There are 100 of us here today, and democracy is not threatened. What would happen so horrible if the pirát were defended by Mr. Ferjenčík and Mr. Profant were playing on a computer somewhere at home? Nothing, right? I mean, the politics would be exactly the same. If Dr. Kaňkovský had been in the hospital just commuting to the vote once every two months and doing a civic profession. So these are all things, this is an example that we have to think about how to slim down the state. Because a slim state, a rich citizen is the value we defend. Do we have that kind of inclusion in schools? Do we have a new law on funding education, where you probably agreed with me at the time, where tens of billions of crowns are being bailed out by half-empty high schools? Isn't it appropriate to go back to being a primary school priority? [[15.20 hours]] Much of Czech science is desperately unproductive, but we do not discuss it. We have no information here for six months on how long an incubation period is needed for this dangerous disease covid, what is contagious and in what environments, so that we have no scientific results, and all citizens draw all the information from Mr. Blesk editor, who will read it, or from Mr. Hamáček, when he tells them about the freezers. This way, we could go after the resort and go on and on. It is time to slim down the state and allow the active people to become rich again in the future. This is how capitalism works, and this is how our rich and democratic world in which we have lived until this time works, and I want to continue to live in it. The Tricolore suggests that the Chamber of Deputies should return to the Government of the Czech Republic the draft Act on the State Budget for 2021, with the following recommendation: 1. keep the revenue in the proposed amount, 2. cut by 120 billion, 3. balance - 200 billion, seven days. I've just read the reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u83	Thank you. I therefore ask for the rapporteur's proposal to be forwarded, if necessary, to the chair's table here. And now, please Mr Kaňkovský, Mr Munzar will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u84	Good afternoon. Dear Vice-President, Minister, Minister, dear colleagues, colleagues, allow me to supplement the opinion of the President of the KDU-ČSL KDU-ČSL Jan Bartošek, who presented here before lunch. It has already been said here many times today that we are meeting to discuss the state budget at a very difficult time, perhaps in the modern history of the Czech Republic unheard of. There have been a lot of words here about the external causes of the state in which the state budget is being prepared. I don't want to comment on this, maybe I'll just paraphrase the words of President ODS President Petr Fiala that we don't really care about this government, and we don't want to make fun of it, because the times are really complicated. Nevertheless, I would like to make some comments on the proposed state budget. I will no longer discuss his overall structure, which has already been said here, but I will focus on Chapter 313, which is the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. This chapter was very optimistic here, Minister Maláčová, and I did not quite count it, but from her mouth it was said repeatedly that this is an excellent report when she evaluated some areas of the chapter. And I must say, unfortunately, I cannot share her opinion in the global. There are, of course, some outstanding positions that I appreciate and for which I would like to commend Minister Maláčová. One of them is the promotion of investment in social services. It's an area that's been underfunded for a long time, we've fought here repeatedly to raise it, sometimes it's succeeded, sometimes it hasn't. So if there's 1 billion this year. CZK, so I think that this is correct, because the material technical base of social services, whether it be senior homes, and other social services facilities, is not quite right, despite support from the structural funds of the European Union and other support from regions and municipalities in particular. I would like to briefly mention what was said here from the mouth of the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek. I have to say that his extempora of me, I cannot say that it surprised me, because I know that he is a very, very, very capable rhetoricalist, however, some of the things that have been said from his mouth here, I think are slightly smiling. If a long-time minister and a long-time member of the left-wing party are beating the alarm that the right-wing parties are telling the government at this very critical moment that, apart from other things, it should save money, and if the left-wing minister here is saying that the right-wing parties here have opposed investment, that is indeed very smiling. As a representative of the KDU-ČSL, the Central Right Party, I must say that we have always supported and will support reasonable investment, even during this critical period. But if we do not want to get to the level of Greece or some other states, we also need to make reasonable savings in addition to making reasonable investments. Unfortunately, we did not see much of that in the draft state budget, and therefore the words of Minister Zaorálek raised me at least a little bit. And now for the discussion on chapter 313 of the MPSV. From the mouth of Minister Maláčová, it was said here that a 10% increase in tariffs for social services workers was achieved. I am not saying that this is bad news, on the contrary, social services workers certainly deserve an increase, not only for the present very difficult work in the time of the covid, they deserve it in the long term. But to talk about it as some phenomenal success, I think it's a little hypocritical, because all of us who have been sitting here for a year now know that the salary base for social services workers in recent years has been really low and, despite the various increases that have occurred in recent years and for which we have to thank, let's certainly not make social services workers become some VIP professional group. That's not true. And we need to consider other benefits for social services workers, because if any area is actually very affected by the personnel crisis, it is health and social services. And for those social services, it is all the more difficult that their need for both volume and volume is constantly increasing, so here we really need to think about workers in social services in the long term. It's not just that we're going to increase them by 10 percent now, and we're going to think that's some big success. And then I'm going to mention the area that I'm talking about basically year after year, and last year even an extraordinary meeting was convened on this subject, and that is the financing of social services operations. It's the evergreen of this House. Basically, every time we approve the budget, we are looking for more money to finance social services here, and I may have been a little naively thinking that this year we will not see it coming, that we will all realize that social services are so important that they are underfunded by the big problem and that this will not happen. Unfortunately, even in the draft state budget for 2021, this area is again underfunded, with a little over 20 billion proposed. CZK, with the real need moving somewhere to 22.5 billion. Crowns. So here I would very politely ask the government to think about this area during the next phase of the legislative process, because in those chapters, or in those sub-chapters relating to social services, it is not counted in the draft state budget with an increase in the reform of psychiatric care of 600 million. Crowns. Furthermore, it is not expected that municipalities and regions that finance social services will be very difficult in the next year's budget and that already in the autumn of this year a number of regions have to finance social services, because otherwise some modalities would be very bad. And there are other areas. I was also talking about financing 10 per cent to raise tariffs. Nor is this 100% taken into account in the draft state budget, or in Chapter 313, for social services. The KDU-ČSL Club will prepare amendments for second reading regarding the financing of social services in several options up to 2 billion. Crowns. And I would very much like to ask both Minister Schillerová and Minister Maláčová to sit down on this issue and look for the means to finance social services, because this is really a very important area of our lives. It concerns tens of thousands of disabled, elderly people who use both field and residential social services, and it also concerns their families. Together, if we do the math, it's almost a million people in this country. And I don't think it's a minority problem for us to just walk over him. Dear colleagues, thank you for your attention, and I firmly believe that the government will continue to deal with this initiative of mine. In any case, we will prepare the proposed amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u85	Thank you. First of all, I would like to apologize to Vice-President Skopečka for not calling him in as he volunteered before Mr Kaňkovský with the priority right of the ODS Club. So I'm going to ask the secretary who's applying if she wants to take action. In fact, okay. And before I give the floor to the Minister with a factual remark, I must point out that the proposal made by Mr Klaus, who proposed that the deadline for submitting a new proposal be seven days, is unacceptable, in my view, because the Rules of Procedure in Section 102 (2) of the Rules of Procedure are not acceptable. 3 assumes a minimum period of 20 days. And now, the Minister, with a factual remark, will respond, then with priority rights, Mr...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u86	Thank you. I am very briefly for Mr Kaňkovský. Ambassador, I don't feel like we're spending enough on social services. In 2007, when this kind of funding went down, I didn't find the chart very quickly, but I'm going to have it at the end of the day, so it was the sum of some 6 something, between 6 and 7 billion. Now in the last novel, we were over 20. It's just really there - and most of the money's being funded by the state. So at this point, the 10 percent increase, that's my deal with Secretary Maláčová. The money, of course we're counting on it, it's one whole, now I don't know if 1.3 or 1.4. I'll make it clear in the final word, it'll be in the form of a subsidy program, and we've even specified the amount in agreement with Mr Horecký to be the exact amount. So I really don't feel like the trajectory - and most of that money is going to be the state - and all the time I've been calling to make transparent funding, because I don't know until today how much these regions are actually financing, how much municipalities are financing, how much is there from self-platforming. I just see the subsidies growing between the states, and I keep hearing from you, every year, I've already felt what we put in the money - and again, social services. I had to take a normal breath here, 'cause I don't feel like the money's gonna be enough. There's more and more money going in there. That's the trajectory. And I'm just calling, please, to make it more transparent! And let's clearly show where the money goes. Because I want to be sure when there's that kind of money - we all want to be sure, not me, it's not just about me - we give that they really go to the needy because that's where they aim. And otherwise I explained your words so that you can make an amendment - I'm done - for 2 billion, so that you will support the state budget at first reading, so I explained it to myself. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u87	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of Mr Klaus, he first came forward, then Mr Kaňkovský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u88	In fact, I would like to respond to Mr President's words. Mr President, by your own means, I thank you for the correction of our lawyers and the detailed knowledge of the Rules of Procedure, so I would like to give up the previous proposal to return to the Government for discussion and to load a new one, namely: The Chamber of Deputies returns to the Government of the Czech Republic the draft Act on the State Budget for 2021, with the following recommendation: 1st leave the revenue to the proposed amount; 2. reduce expenditure by 120 billion; 3. Balance minus 200 billion - term 20 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u89	Okay, thank you. I'm gonna ask you again to hand over the proposal. And now, Mr Kaňkovský, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u90	I thank the Minister for her performance. If I'm to understand that there will be a special program outside the county subsidy for this raise, then, of course, the amount can be smaller, so I'll be glad if the secretary adjusts it. But as far as the debate on the increase in the government of the YES movement and social democracy is concerned, it is necessary to say that B. We are getting older in the population, each year the volume of social services increases, both in the field and in the residential ones. This, of course, generates additional expenditures related to this. The salaries were increased, and salaries were increased in all segments, not only in social services. So this justification, forgive me, Madam Secretary, but it's not entirely fair from my point of view, because it's not just about the extra money being put in there, but it's about increasing the need. And that's what we have to pay for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u91	Thank you. Now, Madam Secretary with a point of fact, then Mr Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u92	In the meantime, my deputy has written me the exact amount that will be allocated to the 10% increase in 2021, where we are not increasing anywhere. I have proposed a freeze on civil servants' salaries, except for teachers. [[Voice from the right.]] And, of course, don't rip it out, Mrs Kovářová, that I only said because we promised them. Because we simply consider education to be a priority for this government, one of the priorities of this government. So it's 1.6 billion. It's been consulted by Mr. Horecký, which will be allocated to the salaries in the social services. And of course, no one doubts the need at all. No one doubts her at all. I'm just saying that I consider it unfair, and I find it unfair of you to say that it's underfunded when over 20 billion out of some 6 to 7 in 2007. I'm just saying - and I don't blame it, I don't blame it - 5.2 billion we put on rewards there, and you know it, it was a subsidy program for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs after, I don't know, about the third amendment or the second amendment to the State Budget Act in 2020. So I certainly don't feel like we're just somehow overlooking this area. On the contrary, my conscience is completely clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u93	Thank you and now Mr Benešík with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u94	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as social services are concerned, of course, KDU-ČSL claims that when we were in the government, we were in favour of this, we were successful in promoting that the amount of social services funds would grow, because it had stagnate and been underfunded for a long time. But let's have some pure wine. Just 6, 7 billion in 2007 is a completely different amount than, say, 20 billion in 2020 or 2021. The volume of social services, the performances, has grown incredibly, of course, thanks to the laws adopted by the legislators, and they have admitted social services to the people. And it's also because wages are rising. So when we look at the volume of social services in 2007 and what it is today, it really is incomparable. And if we look at the salaries in 2007 and today, it's also incomparable. So the real increase isn't like that, thank God for it, of course, but I, as a municipal politician, am just moving in this sphere. I very often talk and visit social facilities, especially those that are not state or are not managed by the public administration, such as charities or deaconies. And I just have to get a huge compliment out of this place to all the workers and workers in these services for what they're doing and for what money they're doing. It's just unbelievable! And I just hope that we can just keep them there and that they're not tired of the hard times they're going through now, much harder than they normally are at the time of coronavirus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u95	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Kaňkovský, then Minister Schillerová. I'm trying to keep the order as people report to me. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u96	I apologize to the Minister. I forgot one more thing. Madam Secretary has mentioned the systematic measures that need to be taken. I totally agree with her. For the second term, we have heard about the need for a comprehensive amendment to the Social Services Act. Unfortunately, we are at the end of the parliamentary term, and the amendment to the Social Services Act is not even yet in the House. That's one thing. And the second thing is that we have agreed across the political spectrum - except, I believe, social democracy - that a compensatory decree for social services needs to be ratified, but once again this promise has not yet been fulfilled. And that's up to the government coalition, you can't expect that from the opposition. So I think we agree on this. Let us take systematic measures, design a financing model, preferably multi-annual, and we will have much less problems financing social services, and maybe we won't be doing the annual discussions on the financing of social services here after that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u97	Thank you, and now with a point of fact, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u98	I have only for a very short time for Mr Benešík. When we had a press conference with Minister Maláčová after the budget meeting, after the second meeting, because we negotiated twice, I clearly said there, I went through, I told you here in relation to the companies, but when I was passing through the Republic in the summer, I was in a number of these social houses and various facilities, and I told you at the press conference: "These people are angels! Angels! That's why I retreated and agreed that this would be the only segment where we'd add 10 percent, and we'd come up with the subsidy system and consult with Mr Horecký. That's why I agreed to it, because the average salary is actually around 26,000, and what these people are doing there is incredible! I recommend that everyone just go in there, and with great humility, he may look at this world. So I agree with you, but just please don't push me - or our government, it's not about me - that we don't care about this area. So the only people who get paid will be teachers, social services and health professionals by 10 percent. But that's a payment decree, which, of course, is not a problem of the state budget. No one else. [[15.40 hours]] And one more thing. I believe that you're all voting here, I believe that the billion it's going to cost, it's going to be 1.6, but let's say that we get a billion by lowering here - freezing, freezing, not cutting, freezing the salaries of constitutional officials. That's what I'm calling for. That's what I'm calling for. We support the Pirate Party proposal. There will be an amendment because the Ministry of Finance, we appeal, we have come up with this because it is freezing only for 2021, we want it for 2022, because otherwise, jumping those salaries of constitutional officials would increase by about 15 to 20 percent, I'm sure none of you want it, so none of us, it concerns me too, none of us want it. So we have a billion saved right here. And I expect that to happen. And it must be effective on January 1st, please be careful. [[Attention on time.]] If it's not January 1st, those salaries will jump automatically.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u99	Thank you. Mr Benešík, then Mr Klaus, with factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u100	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I'm glad we got this straight. It wasn't a complaint, it was just a clarification, what I said. And I'm happy for the raise. But here I would like to emphasise one more thing that is little known about, but I hope that this House will also discuss it, namely that the European Union has allocated relatively large resources to Member States to combat coronavirus, or virtually. to cover the consequences of the pandemic. The Czech Republic can touch some 170 to 180 billion. Crowns. The money will be possible from January. The money can be drawn on the basis of the so-called National Recovery Plan, which sets priorities. And those priorities should be the social area, the availability and improvement of social services, health care, accessibility and improvement of health services, but also, for example, the maintenance of employment. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] As members of the European Committee, we have received, say, complaints from the social sector, from social service providers, that they are not sufficiently involved in the process of creating this National Recovery Plan and that they are not much remembered in the initial proposals. We adopted a resolution on the committee last week, when we asked the government to drag the Chamber of Deputies into the process of creation, to keep us informed, not when everything is cooked and cooked, and to follow the model of Slovakia, because in Slovakia, the real process of creation, the setting of priorities for which the money will be used, actually participates in a whole range of companies, so that we do the same. So I will address the Minister of Industry and Trade with a letter asking him how he sees it, and I hope that at the next meeting of the European Committee, we will discuss this together with the Gesture Ministers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u101	Thank you. Thank you for keeping time. I'll ask for more peace at the rapporteur's table, if necessary here. And now, Mr Klaus, with a point of fact, then Mrs Golasowská. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u102	Now, I've been doing a bit of a show here, but I'd just like to ask my colleagues, I don't mean to be rude, maybe it's a little pedagogical of me, but we're at the first reading of the state budget, where it's supposed to be the amount of the balance, whether the budget should be balanced, or the deficit should be 400 billion. and stuff like that. So I totally take your comments as legitimate, and I even agree with them, but there would be a proposal to increase the budget by 7 billion. and put it on social services, or keep it till second reading, where it's just a matter of pulling up, I don't know, these and giving it to more nurses. But now it's out of the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u103	Thank you for this remark and please Mrs Golasowská.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I couldn't do it, and yet I wanted to perform, not in some long speech, because he was already a colleague of Kaňkovský for the KDU-ČSL club. But I just want to explain or confirm why social services costs are rising. So I confirm that those salaries were very small for years. And I have to say, because I've been looking into it now, the salaries, judge for yourself: the social services worker has 18,000 gross if he's working on a daily shift, and with the night allowances, and with the holidays shifts he has CZK 20,000 gross - a social services worker who's in the bed, who's in direct care; a social worker with a university education has 27 to 28,000 gross. So let's see if it's some kind of high wage or adequate. I don't think so. And essentially, the non-profit sector is worried that these employees will run away from their jobs and go elsewhere where they will be paid better. They fear that they will not have enough employees at beds in residences and wherever they need them, in field services, in counseling and so on. So I would like to appeal again to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance to consider whether the budget for social services is actually sufficient. I think that the employees in social services deserve that their work is sufficiently evaluated. And I thank them so much for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u105	Thank you. That's the last point in fact at the moment. Please give priority rights to Mr. Vice-President Skopeček's club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u106	Great. I survived a marathon of factual notes. Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor. I would also like to introduce you to my remarks on the state budget, my opinion. I am actually convinced that we have the worst draft of the state budget since 1989. And I don't think it's the worst since 1989 just because of the record deficit of 320 billion, which is the continuation of the collapse of public finances, which began this year when we approved 500 billion. I think this is the worst draft budget because we have on our desk and we are discussing a semi-finished product, a fiction that is not appropriate to reality. The Government's State Budget proposal for 2021 does not include, in any way, the planned tax changes, which can significantly affect the revenue side of the budget and thus the resulting deficit. Even if it were the opposition, it would be a different matter, but the Prime Minister and Vice Prime Minister of the same government are making various variations in tax changes that the Minister of Finance does not reflect at all in the draft budget. Now that we have a government that is unable to come up with a consensus on tax change, and it expects a result like the lottery from the Chamber of Deputies to come up with as far as tax changes are concerned, I would have assumed that at least the Minister, alternatively, on the revenue side of the budget, will calculate the effects of at least these two options so that we could talk about the budget in a little more seriousness. So that the uncertainty and uncertainty in the budget is not enough, the Minister refused to create and publish a regular macroeconomic November forecast. Therefore, we do not have any fresh data on the budget that we can confront with the draft budget and adapt its overall deficit and the structure of the forecast. It doesn't stand up to words that there's no point in making macroeconomic predictions at a time of uncertain economic or turbulent economic development. Quite the opposite. Macroeconomic predictions are not made for good times. In good times, when the economy is growing and when everything is working, as it should, and optimism is spreading, there is no need to make a macroeconomic prediction at such a time. Macroeconomic predictions need to be made at a time when something bad, something unpredictable is happening with the economy, something where we need to have an anchor and at least a framework view of the future. It is clear that such macroeconomic predictions will be burdened with greater uncertainty. But not making a macroeconomic prediction is a terrible mistake. And in the history of the Treasury, it's never happened before. I read an article by the longtime head of the Department of Finance, which produced macroeconomic predictions, which said that during his career for decades at the Ministry of Finance it never happened so that her department, whatever economic development it was, would not regularly prepare macroeconomic predictions and fiscal outlooks. [[15.50 hours]] If we compare it to that, we have a draft budget on the water because it doesn't contain the planned tax changes. In addition, the Minister is shrouding him in the fog because he is rejecting recent economic data and forecasts. The budget is therefore on the water, the budget is in the fog, and that, in my opinion, is not a responsible budgetary policy. Rather, this resembles a horror scene, water and fog, not a responsible budgetary policy. And the Prime Minister gives the crown, who, in his parliamentary proposal for a change of taxes, again proposes further disbandment of the budgetary rules. We've been through this in the spring phase of the coronavirus crisis. The government wants to relax its hands even more so that it doesn't have to be in any boundaries given the maximum height of the structural deficit. In addition to the horror from the Minister of Finance, he is still coming into the budget process of anarchy by the Prime Minister. We have heard the sighs of the Minister, Minister Zaorálek, and a whole series of coalition Members, that we are to be in debt some other time, and sometimes we are to release the state budget through blood rather than the unprecedented economic crisis that we are experiencing under this government. But please, let's make a distinction. We are not preparing the budget for this year, in which the biggest support was implemented. We're preparing the budget for 2021. And if we look at the macroeconomic predictions of various international institutions, but also the latest figures of the Ministry of Finance, which did not send the current ones, but it had to build on something, we see that next year both the international institutions and the Ministry of Finance expect growth for the Czech economy. At a time of growth, deficits are simply not made. At a time of growth, deficits are an economic crime. And Minister Zaorálek may have relied on any economists here, but let him bring me an economist who will say that at a time of growth, the state should manage record deficits. Or let the Minister of Finance deal with why the Ministry of Finance is counting on the proposed budget in the latest prediction of economic growth. That's not true, then? The numbers that this budget is built on are fake, are they wrong because we're expecting an economic downturn next year? Well, say it and put it on the budget, and that's what we're gonna build the budget on. After all, it is the most serious law of the year, and we have it on absolutely odd false figures, at least according to the rhetoric of Minister Zaorálek and other government Members who expect us to be in a deep crisis next year, while the Ministry of Finance, which sends us a draft state budget, predicts growth in the following year. The Minister has confessed here that she can live with the feeling that she will be a minister who will present the deepest or biggest budget deficits in history. Well, that's reassuring, and we're glad the secretary can live with that. But what about other citizens of the Czech Republic? What about our kids who will just have to pay off the debt someday? And not just our children. Of course, the rise in national debt at such a dramatic pace will also be reflected in the debt service. They're just going to be more expensive interest on the government debt service. There will be more expensive interest, which will take on potential funds, which could be used for much more reasonable expenditure, for investments, for public goods. This is simply not the way to manage. Our children will not bear it, so will any other government that will not have a similar crisis. The government, which will have a similar crisis, will have much less room for manoeuvre for some fiscal positive impulse, because it will have to pay more due to this government on interest on government debt. The thought of investing in the crisis or prolonging itself is simply odd. ježíšmarjá Christ, let's see how Europe's economies work. After all, the nirvana and the debt living that we saw especially in the southern states of the eurozone, did their deficits, did their irresponsible management lead to some impeccable economic results? No. It is precisely the southern wing of the euro area, which has not treated public finances well and which are suffering most today. So look at the numbers of growth in Greece, Spain, Italy, the size of unemployment there. According to Mr. Zaorálek's logic, these economies should be at the top of the table today. According to the logic of Zaorálek, Italy should overtake Germany and budgetaryly responsible companies, because they were states that simply did not talk and get in debt. But it's exactly the opposite. They are states that did not go bankrupt just because they were helped by countries that acted contrary to the Zaorálkův theory that it is good to invest from the economic recession. They lent and rescued countries that managed to manage them responsibly. Unfortunately, I do not see any ambition to spare in the draft budget. When we look at how deposits grow on accounts, when we look at the functioning of companies, when we look at the functioning of households, we see that both companies and households understand that we simply cannot spend regardless of what economic development is and have started to create reserves. The share of deposits in bank accounts is growing, people are just getting ready to have reserves. The only one who doesn't do that is the state. The only one who doesn't do that is a state that's completely removed from any logic of economic development. The state is not saving, the state is not shrinking, the state, on the contrary, wants to use this crisis to make it even more swollen, that it will become even bigger and that it will strangle the private sector even more, that it will live even more at the expense of the private sector, which alone can get us out of any crisis, even this one. I've selected two numbers. Mandatory expenditure growth is planned according to the draft budget in 2021 by almost 7 per cent. By 7 per cent, this government will increase the mandatory spending of the year per year. We all know that mandatorial spending is expenditure that the government, any government, even future government, not just this one, will have to pay regardless of whether the economy is going to succeed or whether the economy is going to be in crisis or, as I say, God forbid if there is a similar crisis. The government will allow the future government much less fiscal space to help businessmen help with the infirmary to pay for Antivirus. Just for the next Antivirus, for the next infirmary, there will be no money for other bonuses for entrepreneurs, because thanks to this government and its record increase in mandatorial spending, we will have to pay the expenses that will be given in advance. The government is putting us in a terribly dangerous situation without even realizing it. The government is planning a larger number of civil servants next year, despite the fact that the economy produces less than in previous years. In the following year, the number of civil servants is expected to increase by 7,000. This continues the trend of this government, that every year they are accepted into the service of the state, and therefore they are also paid from the state budget, thousands more and thousands more employees. When else should there be traces of the number of civil servants other than at a time, as the government often says, of an unprecedented economic crisis? After all, no one needs to be an economist to understand that if an economy creates fewer funds, then we have less resources in that year to redistribute. And if we have less money to redistribute, then, unlike companies and households, it can't be the only one who's gonna increase their state redistribution and who's gonna hire extra civil servants. I don't understand at all. Or I understand, but it makes me sad. And I'm sad that the government doesn't understand and it doesn't understand. This government is arguing this year - and this is not surprising - by the fact that the deficit is justified because it will invest record-breakingly. Please, nicely, investments are expected to reach 11.3 percent of the total cost of the state budget in 2021. This is the same number that the right-wing government invested in the 2009 crisis year. Same number. So what kind of record investment is this? Not to mention that this government is rather talking about investment and writing in some of its plans, but in the finals, it rarely invests as much as it plans. And there's been a debate about it. So to justify this crazy draft budget and the crazy draft record investment deficit is so odd. And look at the history of how the previous governments were able to invest. [[16.00 hours]] This separates the living of the state from any economic development and from any rationality also indicates the direction in which remuneration in the public and private sectors has shifted. I don't know if we all agree, but I am convinced that the private sector is the part of the economy that pushes our economy forward, which has the greatest share in the growth and success of the economy. I think that, thanks to the growing economy, the state can then make investments or any public goods. But if we look at the way in which the remuneration in the private sector and the public sector separated, it only confirms my theory that the state sector has completely separated from any rational development of our country. The average wage in the public sector is to be CZK 40,572. Do you know what it's supposed to be, or what the average wage is in the private sector? 36 593. Thus, the private sector, which is to move this country forward, which is most involved in economic growth, has already a significantly lower wage than the state sector, which lives on the redistributed money that the private sector will create. If we don't realize that we've moved somewhere we shouldn't have, and that it will have consequences for our economic growth and our economic development, then there's no point talking about anything in economic policy anymore. However, this budget cannot be discussed in detail seriously. As I said before, she's on the water because of this government, and thanks to the Minister, she's in the fog. Moreover, thanks to Prime Minister Babiš and his efforts to further loosen up budgetary rules, he is rushing into anarchy. These are indeed horror scenes that do not belong in the Chamber of Deputies, and no reasonable person who wants to live in this country in the coming years, such a crazy, horror budget cannot support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u107	Have a good afternoon and we are now in the general debate, so Mr Vojtěch Munzar will speak, Mr Petr will prepare. With priority rights? Yes. So Minister Lubomír Zaorálek and Mr. Vojtěch Munzar will prepare himself. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u108	Thank you. I would simply like to respond briefly to the speech of the previous speaker, because there was such a sentence from him that I would not find anyone to say that it is possible to work with deficits at a time of growth. I'd like to respond to this, because I'm convinced that this sentence doesn't apply entirely. What I think is important is that at a time of growth, politics is done so as not to increase debt to gross domestic product. That means if I have a deficit, but if I increase GDP by not increasing debt, then of course that deficit doesn't matter. So I want to be more specific about this. It is simply not true that there is no deficit at the time of growth. The debt-GDP ratio is crucial. And the moment you manage to solve it, of course, the deficit could be. That means, I agree with the previous speaker that it's wrong that politics is countercyclical, which I think is what I feel at the heart of what he wants to say, as justified, but this simple thesis doesn't apply here that when there is growth, there can be no deficit. That's what I think, it's just not like that. If I use the money in a way that I can stimulate the economy and lead me to GDP growth, it's actually positive. And I don't think there's an example in this that these Greeks or the southern states show that it's defective because I'm just gonna say, they just didn't use the money appropriately to really stimulate the gross domestic product to stimulate higher added value. That means, as the people say, that money can be fed without having any lasting effect. But when you invest in education, in innovation, when you invest in human capital, it really comes back to you. That means I can give you a whole series of examples of using the funds in a way that drives the economy forward. Perhaps we can agree that it depends on how you work with the money. And that's why you have some countries that are going to go into debt, and there's really no effect, but you have some, and that's also examples where they can use the money to start the economy accordingly. So that's the essence of what I'm saying, and I reject the thesis that was said here that growth rules out deficit. That's not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u109	Now one point of fact - Mr Jan Skopeček and Mr Vojtěch Munzar is still prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u110	Thank you very much. I'll also respond. You are right in that economic growth does not exclude deficit. After all, that is what we saw in your socialist governments, but also in this government, when you cut deficits, regardless of whether the economy was growing or not. What you're saying would be true at a time when the economy would only have the concjunctural trend, that is, if the economic cycle had only the growing part. But unfortunately, market economies are moving in cycles, and after that, a more or less long growing cycle comes the downward cycle. And at a time when the government is implementing deficits even during the boom, it is very difficult to eliminate such deficits at a time of decline, virtually. such deficits are growing even more dramatically and they are putting the country into debt problems. This may have forced Greece to strangle and save the spending at the wrong time, which put it into an even greater recession. If countries were to save in economic growth, respectively. would not create deficits, so at the time of the decline a reasonable economist would say that even the deficit at the time of the decline is possible and can also help the economy. But public spending has one characteristic. If the government once introduces them, such spending is very difficult to cut. They are very difficult to cut at a time of growth, even worse to cut at a time of recession. So governments and states that manage deficits at a time of growth call for dramatic problems at a time when the economy is falling because their debt service is forcing them to save, and they must save at the least appropriate moment, which brings them to an even greater recession. So we have to realize that the economic cycle has different phases.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u111	Mr Vojtěch Munzar will now appear and Mr Petr Bendl will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u112	Yes. Thank you, Mr President. Hello again, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary, Minister. I will not comment on specific figures in the budget, because we all know, and from my previous speakers it has been said several times that these figures are based on nonspecific data, and as has been said here, they are standing on water. Instead, I want to talk about government access to public finances. I was so surprised by the opening speech by the Minister, where we could get the impression that we are again in something, this time in state finance. Unfortunately, this praise is not appropriate. We're talking about the fact that state finances are really in decomp and in bad shape, and we can speculate whether they're in bad shape for covid or with covid. The Minister is trying to hide everything behind the covideo pandemic, which has been a huge blow to our economy, but it hides that, unfortunately, under the leadership of the ANO movement, state finances and state budgets have not been in good shape since, for example, last year. I would expect the Minister of Finance to come forward and learn from her, after the opening words, what is actually the perspective for our economy. I would expect to learn how the economy will start up and how quickly the government will allow the economy to start up again. [[16.10 hours]] Despite the first wave, many economic operators survived thanks to their reserves and the state came up with compensatory measures. Now I'm not going to evaluate the birth pain of the compensation and whether it was sufficient, but it helped many. Today, in the second wave, entrepreneurs and companies that have been banned or severely restricted by the government no longer have reserves because they should never have created them. And the state also has no reserves, because the government has spent them all over economic growth and has not created new ones in previous years. I'm afraid this is behind cutting back on the second wave, too. Therefore, the government does not allow some aid, such as compensation bonus and Antivirus. Or that's why businessmen have to pay social security even though they have a government decision to shut down business. And for companies and businessmen who don't have a government decision directly closed, but they're locked up with their customers, influenced, they didn't make it at all. The longer our economy is in this state, the worse the impact will be. I am afraid that we can have a lot of entities on the verge of collapse here, that we can have increasing unemployment, and that will increase the pressure on the social system and, at the same time, the revenue of the state will be reduced. All of this will affect the future state finances for years in advance. That is why I expected the Minister of Finance to speak about the economy, precisely the perspective, the fiscal policy of the state, about stabilizing public finances. Instead, we have heard the general phrase that we need to invest from the crisis. Madam Secretary here said the sentence that budgetary policy must be wise. I agree with that. Too bad she wasn't wise in her previous years. In recent years, when the pandemic has not yet seen, nor heard, the state's management has been evaluated by the Supreme Audit Office in the words - I quote - that the state budget is worse prepared for emergencies than in the previous economic crisis. Now we have it here and we see the result - a rapid increase in deficit. The Minister here spoke of budgetary responsibility and the creation of reserves in recent years. But unfortunately, nothing is further from the truth, because we don't have any reserves. Despite economic growth in recent years, the government has spent everything, spent what it could, including the reserves we lack today. Just for your information, colleagues, if you look at the state budget revenues for 2014, they were 1,133 billion. In 2019 there are 1,523 billion. That's 390 billion, almost 400 billion difference, a quarter increase in revenue. Where's the money? How did the government use them to stabilise public finances so that we could be prepared for a fall in order to have reforms in order to increase competitiveness? What happened to the money? The government just spent it. This is because it lived by nature in the management of state budgets and did not make any changes that would lead to an increase in the long-term stability of public finances. And unfortunately, in the same spirit, he wants to manage our budgets even in times of crisis. In fact, if the government had managed more rationally in recent years, the deficit might not have been so deep. And today it is appropriate to demand the government to present a plan, a real plan to stabilise public finances. It is also possible to demand that there be any attempt at savings in the operating expenditure of the State at all, so that, for example, there is sufficient assistance for people, especially in the off sectors. It is also possible to require the government to give priority only to the necessary expenditure and to reflect on the meaningfulness of some of the expenditures it has set at a time of economic growth. But if we look at the draft budget, we don't see any similar efforts. It has been said many times that every debt will have to be paid once. If our generation doesn't pay for it, then the generation of our children will pay for it. The increase in deficit, however, also means an increase in government debt management, which also increases annual expenditure. Therefore, it should really weigh its height and try to keep it as small as possible. The faster we increase deficits, so will the government debt service increase by increasing itself, but also by gradually deteriorating the rating and increasing the interest and price of debt that we will undoubtedly expect if we do not have any brakes on the increase in debt. And, of course, this will also reduce the scope for future governments. As in the family, when an economic outage occurs, it is necessary to do a certain cost restructuring, to determine what is necessary and what is necessary. And from the state's point of view, there should be an effort to save on operating expenditure by the state or, for example, on excess grant titles or investment incentives, and maybe use this money to compensate enough to restart economic activity as quickly as possible. The solution is not the style presented by the government by this budget, and the style is 'let us spend what we can and what legal frameworks allow'. Plus, the proposal doesn't have any room to deal with other sudden events next year. That's not entirely rational anymore. What if the third wave comes, and what if the government orders another lockdown again? Unfortunately, the budget presented to us is on water and uncertain assumptions. And there are several general rules that every government, regardless of its priorities and regardless of its economic situation, should respect when drawing up the budget. In addition to the principles of efficiency, efficiency and efficiency, this is also a principle of reality and truth of the budget. Unfortunately, this proposal does not follow these principles and therefore does not have my support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u113	So, I will now ask for Mr Petr Bendl's speech, and Mrs Lucie Šafránková will prepare herself. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, I do not have the ambition to talk about the state budget in macroeconomic numbers, after all, that is what Mr Skopeček here was competently saying. Although perhaps the Margo of this matter, when there was a debate on what to do at the time of the crisis, whether to save or invest, I cannot recall that in times of crisis the former governments saved in the budget, or in chapter of the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture CZK 30 billion, which was the profits of the Forests of the Czech Republic, the national enterprise Budvar and so on. These 30 billion crowns, or less than 30 billion crowns, were dissolved into the state budget at a time when the economy was rising and when the economy was going well, and now we are clearly missing the funds, and we are also missing that chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture. You may recall, we were here discussing rather dramatically what is going on in the Forests of the Czech Republic and what is doing bark in our forests, not only state but also municipal or private. And to the margo of what was happening in the area of pest attack, so during the year, or the Chamber of Deputies decided over the course of the year to increase the budget of the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, by approximately CZK 7 billion serving to mitigate the effects of crust sludge in the state and non-state forests that were created in 2019, so that we could be able, or that the state would be able to prevent further damage and, on the one hand, to cope with the situation that the bark has already committed. Let me just remind the secretary who certainly doesn't have it, she doesn't have to remember that the Ministry of Agriculture chapter is interesting by saying that more than half of the amount, roughly... Last year it was together less than CZK 70 billion, so more than half of the budget chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture is covered by European Union funds. Last year, the coverage plan was around 24 billion, from European Union funds 32 billion, with an increase over the course of the year, as I said, the total amount was 12,9 billion, so the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture was less than 70 billion. [[16.20 hours]] The draft budget, as it is presented to us today, the chapters of the Ministry of Agriculture are basically at the same level as envisaged in the planning of 2019 for 2020, which clearly lacks funds to address the calamity situation. We're not just in trouble with the crust, or with other pests, whether it's the beaver or the vole and others, just the calamity that's coming down on the agricultural sector, but it's mainly the water issue. We want to discuss today's amendment to the constitutional law on how we want to incorporate water protection into the Constitution. We, who are practically involved in this, know that the Czech Republic has huge problems with drought and floods, especially because the country is unable or unable to catch enough water, and the financial costs associated with it are considerable. We will certainly discuss this in detail, how this is covered in the draft chapter of the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. But the way - and I don't really have to count too much, I think it's obvious that chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture has resigned to address the problem of the impact of the cruststorm. Or maybe we've got it figured out. Maybe we've got it all figured out, and that the Department of Agriculture won't need the funds anymore, that we'll leave the wood there, we won't even prevent further damage to the crusty sludge. Basically, let's just let it go and save $7 billion. But in my deep conviction, we're going to do a lot more damage if we don't make this investment. This investment of ours is primarily preventive and should prevent many times more damage that the bark, and not just him, could do. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he or she is planning to increase expenditure in the area of dealing with catastrophic situations in the agricultural sector. Because as the budget is written, the funds are definitely missing in the billions of crowns. And in order to give a little bit of advice to the future about some communication that will take place, I suppose, in detail at the agricultural committee's meeting, I think we should, on the other hand, discuss perhaps the efficiency of the costs used in the area of so-called. the disease fund, which is approximately one billion crowns each year, or at this time it has been moving, for the last maybe two or three years, at the level of roughly one billion crowns, and that we should talk about the effectiveness of the funds thus spent. If by any chance the agricultural sector should not use at least part of it for the benefit of the agricultural public elsewhere. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u115	So now, Mrs Lucie Šafránková will speak and the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear government, let me also briefly comment on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2021, today more generally, and I will present my specific amendments at second reading. The first reading of the State budget is intended to cover its basic data and parameters, the volume and amount of its planned revenue, expenditure and budget deficit. I would like to add - or a budget surplus. But that, unfortunately, for most of our citizens today, especially younger ones, is a concept that they know only from economic history or economic science fiction. I am probably not the first to be alarmed here in this context because the draft budget presented to us is based on a completely different economic and legislative reality than that which is most likely to apply on its revenue side in 2021. That's something completely unheard of and unprecedented. You're reluctant to believe that the translator, the government, can be serious. This procedure is completely irresponsible from the Czech Government. The whole system of public finances, towards citizens, entrepreneurs, towards municipalities and regions. To everyone. It is a matter that will once be written into the economic textbooks in black as a warning case of how public finances are not to be managed in any way. Yes, I am talking about the planned tax revolution, which, of course, is not an unexpected duel of the government coalition and opposition, but the battle of Prime Minister Babiš and her first Vice Prime Minister Mr Hamáček, which is at least a European unique once again. Moreover, it is in many cases an extermination step and an expression of supreme arrogance that is unprecedented to self-government. Literally even a proverbial grace wound. Regardless of the expected and inevitable decline in their investment activities, which will adversely affect the overall aggregate demand, and thus the pace of the overall restart of the economy after the corona shock, which is supposedly to be one of the government's budget objectives. In this context, the government's advisory economic authorities point out that if the government does not rapidly compensate for the projected and unaccredited tax loss either by increasing other taxes, which we reject, or by reducing expenditure, which the SPD prefers, another decline in our structural deficit of up to about 1,3% of the gross domestic product can be expected, and this so-called overall structural balance, which was still recently in excess of 0,4 % of the gross domestic product, could thus reach a deficit of 6% of gross domestic product in 2021, while its legal limit, after the last adjustment, is already unacceptable minus 4 per cent. Moreover, the government's promised public finance consolidation plan is not available. Not to mention serious violations of the basic rules of the budget-making process themselves by the government. By the way, the German Government recently submitted a plan to consolidate public finances and reduce the budget deficit. And if they do, it is quite possible that in 2022 the Czech budget deficit will be even higher than in our eight times more populous neighbours, not relatively but nominally in absolute numbers. Furthermore, the discussion and construction of each budget chapter is based on an outdated budgetary perspective, which only generates other serious problems. The draft budget does not take into account the expected acceleration of depreciation and reduction of excise duty on diesel, which is a decline of more than 20 billion on the budget revenue side. I also see major problems and irregularities on the budget's spending side. In the sense that a significant proportion of social expenditure in particular is budgeted at the level of the State budget expenditure for 2020, i.e. absolutely without taking into account the effects of the Coronavirus. But most importantly, it is unacceptable that we do not know the real form of its revenue page on the day of the opening of the state budget debate in the House, or that we know that the way it is presented to us will not correspond to reality, and therefore the fact does not correspond to the amount of the budget deficit presented. This cannot be overcome by silence and cannot be actively involved in this support. Colleagues and colleagues, I do not deny the government the right to submit the draft budget according to its own wishes, even if it contains a large deficit, even though I do not agree. But the members of the House and all citizens deserve this proposal to be true and its basic parameters will not be changed in a few weeks by another government amendment in the order of tens of billions of crowns. In addition, it is a start of a slide, at the end of which it is very soon, within about five years, to break through the upper limit of the debt brake, which is 55 per cent of gross domestic product. In combination with the emerging economic crisis as a result of the effects of coronavirus, the imaginary point from which there is no return, which we must not allow again. Ladies and gentlemen, we could talk about individual shortcomings of the proposal for hours and hours. These are the very basic ones. And we know from life's experience that nothing can be built on completely bad and defective foundations. Not even a little garden chalet, let alone a state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u117	So far, the last one entered in the general debate, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip, will appear. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u118	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I would like to make one comment and then three such parts of my speech. The first point is that of Bartošek's ideological speech. If I listened well to my colleague Roman Onderka, his criticism was not a criticism from the right towards the ANO movement, but was a criticism from the left. So the position of the ANO movement is rather right from the center, not between social democracy and the KSČM. I don't think we should confuse politically, let alone state-law terms. So much for a comment. The second, or the first, larger part of my performance is about how much we're on the same boat. I've listened to some performances in detail. Some performances I could figure out by who lectured them. And, you know, I don't care about the great Phariseery, or the inability to separate wishes and reality. I really can't give the truth to those who here are telling what everything should be paid out of the state budget, and then they say that the deficit is too big when their proposals go towards a deficit that is ten billion or sometimes even hundreds of billions higher than planned. I just don't understand that kind of speech. Not that I do not understand its content, but I do not understand that this man can come before the Chamber of Deputies and say something like that. It's just not possible. Either we are consistent in our opinions, and we must therefore see in some way that what we are saying will have some real impact, and this must also be reflected in some way in the particular economic life of the state. We're talking about being in the same boat. Yet, with a calm conscience, some of the leaders from the right part of the political spectrum - and I am glad that the state budget has shown that the left-right division of the political spectrum is correct and that it has not survived. Because the proposals are solidarity, and then the proposals are individualistic. And the individualist right-wing proposals were made here. If we are on the same boat, the Czech ČR is of course its citizens, its municipalities, its regions and the state as a whole. That's the one ship. But we can't try to steal from the state budget the center, the state, for the benefit of one part, and say there's no other way. Because every step, such as tax cuts or reductions, what the President of the Republic said, is obviously reflected in the extent to which it will fall into the budget of municipalities and regions in the budgetary determination of taxes. Please, if you want to perform consistently, let us always remember, each of us, that the words are heard by people who understand the state budget. If anyone's watching this, of course, your performances can't be taken by a coin. He can't. And those who listen to us live on Czech TV or read it in the context of the possibilities that the online world gives, of course, are wondering how two sentences can be said in a row by that particular Member or Member, when one rules out the other, of course. And I insist that if we want to talk about one ship, of course we need to see the impact which means that the state either has fewer options or has fewer options, and that it has to communicate with both the citizen and, of course, primarily and with its parts, such as the municipality and the regional government. And if we want to talk about some of the things that concern compensation, let us realize that this means that we are also losing the possibilities that the state budget gives in this or that. And that's what I think is important to the performances. And then I cannot take such speeches seriously, then I cannot support such concrete amendments, whether it is the State Budget Act or the tax laws or the laws that we present here in an emergency. And now, rather politically, our approach to this, too, because our Members and MEPs have already said their professional speeches. We were based on the fact that this time there should be a higher reserve of government, and we were looking where it could be sought. The increased reserve, the government's budget reserve, we were looking for to allow the government to respond to the unexpected events that everyone was talking about, but no one suggested raising the government's budget reserve. We propose at least 10 billion. Just by lowering the Ministry of Defense's budget. And we do not do this at the expense of the Army of the Czech Republic as a reduction in its fighting capacity. This is such a stupid and incredible argument that no one who listens to us can believe him. If the Army of the Czech Republic in this year's budget 72 billion. CZK could not somehow find a use for these funds in some cases, so do not tell me that for 2021 it will not increase by 10 billion, i.e. to 85 billion, it will endanger our army's fighting power or its ability to help Czech citizens in this difficult situation. It's not true, it's nonsense. And whoever says that is knowingly lying. He's knowingly lying. And if anybody's trying to spend money on Czech taxpayers abroad, let them say it directly, don't make excuses. And it will be clear that someone is in favour of spending money on Czech taxpayers abroad and buying overpriced items, let it start PCR tests after helicopters, and does not say here that it threatens the fightability of the Army of the Czech Republic. It's not true. And anyone who knows a little bit what we're talking about knows that we're no step, i.e. cutting the Ministry of Defense's budget by 10 billion. and by moving to the government's budget reserve, they didn't put anything at risk. Especially not so that the Army of the Czech Republic can help citizens of the Czech Republic both here in our territory and, of course, in carrying out their duties within the framework of the defence of our interests. The second thing that, and I am glad that it is already part of the draft budget, is our long-term demand for an increase in the share of the state budget in health insurance payments. That means payment for state insured persons. It has increased by 30 billion if I am telling the truth, Madam Vice Prime Minister, and this is the amount that allows the Czech health system to be able to cover the needs it has in this difficult situation, both in the care and in the costly care that is related to pandemics. That's what I think was the right step, and it was no complicated problem in the negotiations. On the contrary, we have found understanding in negotiations with the government and it is part of the state budget proposals. That's what I think is important. [[16.40 hours]] Then the question is deficit. Clearly, the deficit will be higher than originally planned 116 billion. The government is proposing 320 billion. We were wondering if we should talk to the government about it being a different amount. Only the part that comes from Europe is debatable, and we will continue to discuss the 180 billion that concern what the European Commission has decided, which has approved the European Parliament, that is to say, the use of resources. And we are glad that part of the funds is somehow directed, that it can help science and research, that it can help those green projects, that it can help what my previous speaker spoke about, for example. in agriculture and water protection, which we will be discussing in a moment. And I'm convinced that a rational person can't say that it was an unexpected move or that we don't know what we're talking about. Of course, the issue of these funds is a question of their involvement in our budget, their involvement in the programmes that we therefore need to do both at national level and at European level as such. And in that case, we believe that the deficit gives us the opportunity to make enough money to invest, to be able to cover the things that concern the blackout in the economy and start it up again. If this was the fundamental consideration, I think that the reasoning is correct, that it is the reasoning that shows that the cuts in the state budget have retaliated to the Czech Republic, and it is not true that it was the programme that helped us. The crisis took place here until 2012, and in 2013, the extraordinary elections were precisely for where the Czech economy ended with the government's austerity program, which has been here since 2008, respectively. 2006. That's reality. Let's talk about it. Let's not paint here for any reason to defend this or that painting other than what people actually experienced here. Finally, allow me to make one point, which I see as essential, to say yes openly, there are things that we have not yet agreed in negotiations with the government. We will apply them as part of the second reading of the negotiations on the state budget, and these will be things that relate to the needs of citizens of the Czech Republic, whether they are the means to what is part of the government programme and what is part of our agreement on tolerance, that is to say, fulfilling the promises made to teachers, to non-teaching workers, whether it be the question of supplementing it in the health care, whether they are the things that concern small municipalities that need these extraordinary programmes, because, of course, they are much worse off than those municipalities that have large apparatuses and large budgets, and they can therefore behave differently. And I'm really sorry that those who have enough money all of a sudden say, "Give it to me and we won't be solidarity." We could never be on the same boat like this. I believe that these amendments can be a good reason for us to agree on a broader political spectrum, that they need to be supported, whether it is the construction of flats or infrastructure in municipalities, whether it is the support of those specific programmes in the Academy of Sciences, which we see as part of the important development of the shift of science and research as one of the engines of the growth of gross domestic product. Of course, there are funds that have not yet been agreed in the first state budget negotiations, whether they are funds at the Ministry of the Interior, especially for the Fire Rescue Corps etc. But of course there are social services where it is obvious that part of those people who have gone through the pandemic health system will end up in those social services, especially the elderly, and we will have to think about whether the social system can bear it, as is now being considered how much the health system can bear. I am convinced that whoever is rationally considering has also had to perceive the words of the President of the Republic that the budget is drawn up with full responsibility, and as I sometimes suffer when someone says that this government has done wrong or this is being held against for certain reasons, so obviously not because of the defence of the government, but because of the defence of the Rules of Procedure Act, I say that, as in every situation of life, there is a debate, then the final word is, and whoever has not applied his comments in the concentrated discussion, so he simply wants to demand, when he forgot something, how it is possible that someone has the final word. Yes, that's in the Rules of Procedure. It's in the Rules of Procedure. It's just that one day the discussion will end, there must be a decision, and that decision must then be accepted. Not everyone wants to accept this, not everyone has the will to acknowledge that their proposal was not majority, that the proposal was not the one that deserved the support of the majority of this Chamber of Deputies. And I believe that it is precisely because we should respect our fundamental law, the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies that we should keep some reservations about speeches to ourselves rather than ridicule ourselves here. I want to say that the Communist Party Club of Bohemia and Moravia, as has been said, will not support the first reading of the state budget, will support its return to recast and will encourage the Government of the Czech Republic to have all the resources for 2021 to effectively combat the pandemic, which still haunts us so that we can respond effectively to every parliamentary day, every time they ask us if we want or do not want to help, or it is more important for us to have an individual interest that some of us have covered up here in many words and have not been willing to admit where they are going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u119	Now I have factual notes here, and there are three of them. So I will read the order: Mr Radek Koten, Mr Stanislav Grospič and Mr Jan Skopeček. So you have two minutes. Three factual points, I don't have another one yet. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u120	Hello. Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I, as a citizen of this state, and I think that all citizens of this state, too, take the form of taxes, various taxes, whether it be social, health or income tax, so they actually pay the service of this state, the service to him as a citizen. I think that all of us, as we are here, should be aware that it is worth paying a citizen a service for the taxes collected, and at the same time, the person who will be at home to babysit the children instead of going to school or being prevented from doing business, so unfortunately, such a person will not pay these taxes. Then we have various COVID I, COVID II, COVID III programs, etc., but if we fail to return the children to school and entrepreneurs their activities so that they can do business, the real outlook for tax collection will be very slim. As far as cuts in military procurement are concerned, I think it would be wise in this situation to consider whether we need this technique right now or whether we are able to produce it here with our arms companies, because then the profit would actually remain in the Czech Republic and it would make sense, because we would employ our people who would again pay taxes in the Czech Republic. As far as non-profit organizations that are not really for charity are concerned, but they are in favour of supporting the import of illegal migrants on time), so we really should not be paying for this here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u121	So another factual remark, Mr Stanislav Grospič, your two minutes, please. And Mr. Jan Skopeček will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u122	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I know it's all about taxes, income. And that's what the budget's all about. That is why my question is directed at the most up-to-date information that is now being heard by the media and by the public spectrum. The flagship of the Czech economy, one of the biggest contributors to the tax system of this state and the maintenance and employment of the Volkswagen Škoda Group, will transfer production of cars with higher added value to Slovakia and to their parent plants of the group in Germany. Not in Mladá Boleslav. Not in the Czech Republic. I ask what the government of the Czech Republic, what Andrej Babiš did directly during negotiations with the chairman of this group in order to produce cars with higher added value in Mladá Boleslav, with higher entitlement to entrepreneurs, who create jobs that we are trying to save here with different packages, have outlets, have contracts and are confident that they will be able to cooperate further within the group, retain jobs, employment, earnings, citizens' incomes, and thus stability in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u123	Mr Jan Skopeček will now make a point of fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u124	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to the speech by you by Vice-President Filip. We can differ in what a good state budget is supposed to look like. We will always criticize deficits, we will try to save money. Communists can have it the other way around. What I don't understand is the sentence that the budget was prepared, if I quote it well, with full responsibility. You can't be serious, Mr Vice-President. At a time when planned tax changes are not counted on the revenue side of the budget, and only by the government are two alternatives to these tax changes that can cheat on the revenue side of the budget, it is not a responsible budget. The moment the secretary refuses to publish November's most recent macroeconomic prediction, which is simply new, never happened, and we cannot confront the draft budget with the latest data and, where appropriate, both the deficit and the structure of the budget to adapt the new macroeconomic forecast, it is not a responsible budget. This budget is on the water. This budget is shrouded in fog, which is more a horror scene than a responsible policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u125	Now, on the point of fact, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip. I don't have another application. Please, Vice-President, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u126	Thank you. Mr President, by your means, Mr Skopečka. You didn't listen to me, colleague. I said we must respect our Rules of Procedure. Nor can the government prepare a state budget under an invalid law. Do you know, or do any of us know, what will be the conclusion of the tax package bill? What will be its effectiveness? I don't know! I don't know how the negotiations are going to end and whether the law will be effective from 1 July, as we agreed on tax laws, or from 1 January 2022. According to what else can the government prepare the state budget if it has to prepare it according to applicable legislation, virtually. for the laws that he prepares for 30. 9. today to 31. 10th, they have to go through at least the first reading. And since we don't know and it's not clear how it's gonna be, he's ready this way. And I don't know any reason why the government could have prepared a state budget differently. That's why I was talking about honoring our own Rules of Procedure Act, because that's the process we're supposed to keep. And another procedure I would consider precisely to be a process of irregular, non-transparable and non-compliant law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u127	I now have two factual applications here, so as the first chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club and Mr Jan Skopeček will be prepared. Well, Prime Minister, you have two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u128	Thank you for the floor. It is a pity that it did not bother Mr. Vice-President Filip last year when the government drew revenue from the digital service tax which, by the way, will not be approved at all this year. But last December, Vice-President Filip through Vice-President Okamura, you voted cheerfully in favour of the draft state budget and did not mind that digital tax revenue was drawn there. Why do we have a problem with tax laws and the state budget this year? The government got an extra month this year for reasonable reasons. And the tax package came to the House, now I was looking to say exactly, at the end of June. And then the arguments within the government coalition began and we waited for the Ministry of Finance to write an amendment for Mr Babiš. Second and third readings of the tax package, I'm not saying that the Senate, we could have been long over if the government knew what it wanted. That's not the opposition's fault. We remember when we started the first reading of the tax package: Make sure it's on time! Let us not repeat the mistakes of past years or previous governments to approve tax changes at the last minute! That's the right resolution. And what's the reality? On 19 November, we will vote in the third reading of the likely Senate proposal. So if we pass tax laws, it'll be right before New Year's Eve and before January 1st. And that's the problem with not being budgeted. Thanks to October, it could have been there if the government knew what it wanted, and the tax package could have been agreed before the draft budget was sent to the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u129	Mr Jan Skopeček, Mr. Jan Skopeček, has now made a final application. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u130	One more response to Vice-President Filip through the President. Mr Vice-President, we have made it possible for this government to send a draft law on the state budget at a later date, unlike the previous years. The Minister argued that he wanted to have the more accurate data on the basis of which he wanted to prepare a more realistic draft budget. And what do we have on the table? We have a budget on the table, a draft budget that does not contain government planned tax changes, which does not contain and is not based on current economic figures, because the Minister refused to publish a regular November macroeconomic forecast. So what's the responsible attitude? Why did we allow this government here to come up with this bill later with the argument that it wanted to prepare a more precise draft budget when it went the other way, and we have a historically completely fictitious piece of paper that doesn't correspond to reality. Is that the responsibility you were talking about?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u131	I will look around to see if there is still interest in the speech in the general debate. I don't see anyone, so I'm ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in the final word. Madam Secretary? The rapporteur? Yes, the rapporteur does not, Madam Secretary does. So, Madam Secretary, you're free to go. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u132	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna start in order because I've been performing at least and always just on some specific things like social services and stuff. First of all, I would like to take a very strong stand against this - and please you, I am taking the course of this discussion all day and I hope and hope for the last time, because I am saying this a few times, but again I am patient, I will say it again - against the claims that the draft state budget is contrary to legal requirements and that we have broken the law on budgetary liability rules, it has been said here. The Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility launches the entire budgetary procedure, that is true, but it is not the only law under which the expenditure framework is based. Following the derivation of the expenditure frameworks in April, it is further updated in accordance with the legislation of the expenditure framework during the preparation of the draft state budget. So it's three laws to set it up. The last one is the one with which the timetable has been set, the delay in the budgetary procedure for budget 2021. Thus, according to the tax options set out in Section 8 of the Budgetary Rules Act, where it is possible to take into account, for example, different macroeconomic predictions or other revenue from the European Union budget. The Act also allows the expenditure framework to be increased by 0,3 per cent of the expenditure approved, i.e. it is currently about 5.5 billion. CZK, in connection with unexpected development. Furthermore, and I have already mentioned this, for this year's preparation of the state budget and its medium-term outlook was approved by Act No. 288/2020 Coll. and the latter in § 1 para. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. For these reasons, the frameworks are higher than would correspond to a structural deficit of 4% of GDP. [[17,00 hours]] So please, I explain again that we have not violated any valid legislation and effective. And I believe that these laws allowed fiscal impulses are desirable. It doesn't make sense to cut revenue slumps by 213 billion. CZK this year. It is so deep that its compensation, and I have said it here several times and I will repeat it again, would undermine the recovery of the economy and bring us deeper into recession. The decline in revenue this year has dramatically reduced the trajectory of future revenues, and this is what the two-thirds of the deficit is now being so criticised. At the same time, several of you argued that the budget was based on bad assumptions. Now it sounds like it's been here all afternoon. So, firstly, because some tax predictions show that it is derived from a no longer current macroeconomic scenario, secondly, it does not contain a tax package for 2021, including amendments. That said, and now it's resonated here for the last hour and a half. So again, first things first. This year the timetable was postponed by a month, so the government was actually given a budget by the end of September, to the Chamber of Deputies by the end of October. Thank you for allowing this to happen to the Chamber of Deputies. So the macroeconomic forecast for the budget is normally published in July, in the current year, this year it was September 15th. It has been assessed by the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts, and both, i.e. macroeconomic and fiscal predictions, have been called realistic. Sure, and then things changed. That's clear, and we all know it. But it must also be remembered that the economy grew more year on year in the third quarter than we expected, and the Czech National Bank's forecast, which expects GDP to fall slightly higher this year, is 7.2 percent higher than our September forecast minus 6.6, but only 1.7 growth next year. Yes, but at the same time, the Czech National Bank estimates the general government balance for next year, which is 4.9 percent of GDP, which is the same as the Ministry of Finance estimated in September. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the European Commission published its latest forecast last week, that is to say on 5 November, which is also estimated by a more pessimistic macroeconomic scenario, but not by a dramatic impact on tax bases. Even their prediction estimates the general government deficit - I think for the Czech Republic - slightly better than the Ministry of Finance. They have, I think, minus 6.2. In other words, the differences in the macroeconomic assumptions of these institutions clearly do not affect the revenues of the general government sector, namely the state budget. I would also remind you that the November forecast, which I am so accused of, has never had an impact on the budget. The budget was sent to Parliament by the end of September, and then macroeconomic predictions were made in November, and it simply did not affect the budget. It never affected him, because at that stage, the budget was needed after the second reading. When I announced, for the same reasons of absolute uncertainty, that we would make a prediction until September 15th, you all took it easy and you agreed to it because now the second wave came in. After all, I sent the budget to Parliament by the end of October, and the prediction would be in November. How would she affect that? Plus minus there would be the same results, maybe a little worse, but based on absolute uncertainty. When do we know we're opening operations? We don't know yet. We've got a modeled script, according to the script, according to the Minister of Health's PES, the system, but we just don't know it exactly. We're gonna make vánoce, we're gonna miss vánoce? Will there be sales? Aren't there gonna be sales? So what do you want? And how would that affect the budget? How would that change him? And that's why you're gonna give it back? Some of you said it right here, I think Mr. Dolejš, I'm not sure right now. It just wouldn't have any effect. And all of you who propose a return, so basically you're proposing a budget provisional. And the rumors that it will take a month or two, well, that can be handled in a boom, not in such a difficult crisis. And now for the planned tax changes. I mean a tax package. They're not really there. I sent a package to the government, which then came to Parliament. That was the one the President Stanjura spoke of, the one who approved, I believe, at the beginning of July, and he was even slightly positive. There was no supergross wage, it was agreed within the coalition that this would be discussed in line with the budget. At the end of August, there was a joint press conference between the Prime Minister and the First Vice-President, where they just announced a consensus, and now we're having some debates there. Of course it's not happy, but it's logical that I just couldn't put it there. What should I put in there? The first tangible number I have is the budget committee recommendation number. And I included this in the proposal for consolidation of public finances, which was sent yesterday evening to the Budget Committee under the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. And that's where I only work with this number, because that's the first tangible number I have, but it's not final. I don't know what you're gonna agree on here next week, 20. 11. why you raise your hand, which of the designs passes or fails. So what was I supposed to work with there? Last year, you paid me a digital tax. That's what President Stanjura said. I admit, they dragged me through the mud for a year that I paid $2 billion. digital tax, it was a government proposal, it was a coalition agreement, but it wasn't good. I was read by the National Budget Board, read by the Supreme Audit Office, and read by this Chamber of Deputies. So now it would be okay? Now what would I put in there? There's depreciation, there's a whole series of proposals. You're proposing a whole series of discounts. So what did I have? Look out the window into the oracle ball and put in what? At the most, I could put what was in the package after the first reading in early July, and that was slightly positive. So I guess you wouldn't like that either. So I think it's "who wants to hit a dog, always finds a stick" by the word. So that's about it. We'll be running the tax package next week, we've got a third reading on the 20th. It hasn't been very loud here yet, but I've read it there in some statements, I don't know who, it's not important, I think Mr. Skopeček. Yes, the Prime Minister's proposal as a Member is bound to the rules of budgetary responsibility, to set those rules free. But I said here last week, you weren't here, Mr. Ambassador, so I'm just going to do it again when we were discussing the second reading over the tax package, that each of those proposals you've basically submitted, any of you, without releasing the rules of budgetary responsibility, is just not going to work. And no one suggested it there, only the Prime Minister suggested it as a Member. If these proposals had essentially gone through without dislodgement of fiscal rules, and I was talking about that smart hobby, we want to give you 15%, we want to give you discounts, but with fiscal rules, no matter who wants to deal with it, if it goes through without dislodgement of fiscal rules, and I believe it doesn't, I say it openly, no matter what, but you're going to have to explain to people that there's nothing going to be, then it would mean that I would have to cut 22 of the expenditure from the budget. [[2022?]] So that's what I'm saying here, we'd give the economy a transfusion so we can bleed her right away, and we're gonna have a big debate on the 20th and the budget committee for sure, so I think we're gonna say it. [[17.10 hours]] I'm just going to repeat this for Mr Skopeček, because he wasn't here when the second reading was. I remember. And the hard consolidation you're calling for. I mean, we had a debate here yesterday about the compensation bonus. I've heard how little we've been helping, and now, in the other wave, little across and over, even there, I've heard that all spring, but on the other hand, consolidate. Just what do you want? And besides the phrases, please make specific suggestions. Say specific suggestions that you do not like about the mandatory or quasi-mandatory expenses. I've been telling you that for three years! None of you told me. You always end up telling me to cut down on officials and cut down on operating expenses. Do you think you can cut operating expenses in tens of billions? Now that we need digitalization? I took five percent from them, and it was for blood anyway, and I fought with everyone. I took 10 percent last year. I've cut even more myself at the Treasury Department to be a role model. But what can you do when we're doing MY Tax project, we're finishing the HAZARD project, we're finishing the flat-rate tax, it's also about IT, linking health insurance companies, Financial Administration, Czech Social Security Administration - it's not just about approving legislation. Thank you for her. That, of course, is the basis. But then you have to do it for real. Remember them, the last right-wing government. Mr. Exminister Kalousek is not here. It's just that I was there at the Financial Administration. Legislation has been adopted, and that is the end of the great glory. The IT system hasn't been built. And I'm saying, I'm going to have small targets, a flat-rate tax is a beautiful base, maybe someday another government will shift, and based on that, it'll be a single collection point, or whoever wants to call it, it's going to conquer, because there's going to be some kind of chassis here. There's got to be some kind of basis here. So we take their money for it? Or another, I'm talking about my resort now, because it's the closest thing to me, but of course it's the next one. That means we can't. You just can't find tens of billions there. Don't lie to yourself. It's just a political phrase that looks nice, but it's unrealistic! And the clerks. Again. I made the pie that I had updated again. [[He's showing the material.]] I'm wearing it today. I'm sorry. I'll take it in a bigger one next time. That's the pie, the year, actually the ratio of civil servants, the years 2013, 2021, this time 2021. I know, I got it wrong again, I know, Mr. Chairman. [[Member Michalek is standing in front of the speaker's counter.]] I'll do better next time. You're shiny again, aren't you? It's on the net, I'll put it back in. So where did they grow up? 73 %, namely 41 976, increase in the ratio of 2013 to 2021, employees in regional education. Don't we need them? We're gonna cut 'em? Don't we want to educate the children? I don't think so, do I? There. 12 percent, nominally 6 983, members of the security forces. 5 %, 2,714, professional soldiers. Then there are 4 %, 2 153, employees who are covered by EU funds or financial mechanisms, such as Norwegian funds. And the real increase, granted between 2013 and 2021, is 3,611, officials and other employees, and there, of course, are still certain temporary employees, such as smart quarantine - now I have another one - yeah, we need to start hiring on the Presidency. For example, for my department, I say that we have abolished the acquisition tax, or simply Parliament, thanks for that, and for the Financial Administration in two years, as the agenda will be running out, because the new one will not start again, we will cancel 500 seats. That means next semester, 100 and so on, because of course the agenda will be over and it will be finished. So just so you know. And that's a beautiful way, I'm just constantly appealing, let's go through the way of canceling agendas, jamming work, digitizing. Digitization will and must necessarily mean jamming those official posts. And they'll find a job. They're gonna find jobs because we just have a whole bunch of vacancies. And I'm not saying that they should go to agriculture, there's 60 percent of college-educated people, I don't mean that at all, but we have a whole range of areas of the economy where people are just missing, and I hear it in those companies - let them go, we'll keep them busy. So they don't have to worry about ending up on the sidewalk. Plus the mandatory and quasi-mandatory expenses. I don't know, let's try. First of all, here's some structure of the budget, Mr. MP Skopečka. It is given by functions in the Czech Republic. The budget shall have a function, inter alia, of redistribution. I'm sure you know that. The social redistributive function is left almost to the state budget, almost exclusively, I dare say. That's why it's always gonna be dominant. The strongest chapter is the MPSV. I'm not very happy about it, because it's always the biggest fight in the budget, we'll never put that on the first good with the secretary, it's always at least two days, but we'll make a deal in the end. It's the hardest. But on the other hand, I want to be fair, and I have to admit, more than 90 percent of that chapter is mandatory expenses. So we've just approved 8 billion reinforcements of this chapter from the government's budget reserve on Monday. Well, since the Minister - and she's not responsible for this, of course, it's not criticism, it's a condition - lack of money for the infirmary, you've also approved 70 percent here, Prime Minister Jurečka - 70 percent, haven't you? Well, that's where the expenses went. So what? So we're not gonna give it to them? They're entitled to it when it's legal? They do. Our health benefits have increased. Disease benefits because people are sicker. It just has to be done. So even though it's the biggest chapter, even though there's just hundreds of billions, we've been sending $8 billion, and I'm praying that that's enough. Fortunately, we may not be able to get the Antivirus there, so it will be able to transfer from these areas. So the biggest item in the budget is pension insurance benefits - 536 billion in 2021. So what? That's the increase you're talking about in the mandatorial expenses. So we're gonna take that to the seniors? That was here when the valorization went down to 40 kroner. That's been done before. I don't think we want to talk about that. I believe you weren't going there at all. Salaries including insurance premiums - 300 billion in 2021, but about half of them go to education. So we're not gonna give it to them, if we're all enchanted here, how important is education to us, how much did Mrs. Kovářová here accuse me of saying that we promised them, ripped out half my sentence? No. It is one of the great priorities of this government for us. And the last one. That's where it started somewhere, and this government just had to finance it, because it just started, past government started regional education reform. Moreover, in the current draft budget, the social benefits do not grow excessive, but only according to the law. It's always a fight. And so here I have to say, the MPSV also leaves it to the Ministry of Finance's calculations. Mostly there's no dispute, we're arguing over the useless amounts. Of course, we also have to take account of overall economic developments, because the budget is twice the amount of unemployment benefits. It's just a measure... Let's remember that we're holding the economy on some sort of acylpyrin. We've got Antivirus, compensation bonus and so on. The support will start to shut down gradually. And here it's clear, that's what I was talking about yesterday, I don't want to say it again, there's going to be a restructuring of the economy, but there's also going to be a part of those people who can lose the job, and they're going to lose it, and they're going to be dependent on the social system for some time, on a robust social system. You were talking about the United States of America. That's one side of the coin. But this social robust system is not there. He's not there. When we discuss NERV with Professor Švejnar and he says increase the unemployment benefits even more than they are now, I always say, but there can be a man on the street from day to day, not here. Here we just have employment laws in this area that protect the employee. That is why I am opposed to increasing these doses. I say it openly, completely unpopulistically. But we have to increase them in numbers, because there will be more people who will just draw them. [[17.20 hours]] So there are several aspects of how to look at the development of these expenditures. It is true that their value in 2020 and 2021 is high relative to income. But this is evidence of a rapid decline in income as a result of the crisis, which is quite logical, and in the share of total expenditures they do not particularly deviate from the values in the past. In proportion, it also depends on the overall deficit. In 2020, when the budget deficit is half a trillion, the share of mandatory and quasi-mandatory spending is the lowest in at least 15 years. That's what I stand for. Finally, in proportion to GDP, pre-crisis values have once again been one of the lowest or the lowest ever since 2025 (?), while the higher value in 2020 and 2021 is due to a fall in GDP. This shows that, if we do not want to disrupt social reconciliation, to plunge people into poverty, to devastate education, to plunder defences or to withdraw from the EU, the cure is to increase GDP and, consequently, public revenue. And cutting off insurance benefits is extremely incorrect. That's what I'm saying when I'm aware that I've been in the boom constantly calling for it, after a review of social benefits. But not now. Not now, please! Now please appreciate the robust social system, the rescue circle that just helps people and doesn't throw them into immediate poverty. Because if you're paying insurance in case of an event - old age, illness, disability - you can't unilaterally break the terms of the contract in quotation marks just because you're saving, and message, try it tomorrow, try it next time. I don't think so. There is no way this government wants to do that! On the other hand, we are also aware of the economic situation, the budgetary constraints, and where this is possible, we keep the amount fixed in the outlook, such as for public sector salaries, which, of course, was not easy to enforce, but we have pushed it, and I believe that we will maintain it during the budgetary procedure, because it is fair. If the private sector's salaries don't rise, and this is where it went down, because you know, the debate, I don't like it, it said here that... they were comparing here, somewhere I noticed it, so I wouldn't forget it... The averages of private and public sector salaries were just being compared here, and it's very complicated. Here was a huge debt from past governments, which were after the last crisis, I think those governments before 2014, there was a deficit that just these governments, this one and that last one, just lined up. Deficit on those salaries, there are 60 to 70 percent of the college students. So we're supposed to give lawyers, excellent lawyers, who maybe run international arbitrations, or experts are a whole series of people who make these macroeconomic predictions, doctors, teachers, so maybe we have to give them adequate salaries. And we're still in circles. Yet we went into this and we said we would propose freezing under some kind of intersocial solidarity, and that is why we want to negotiate a reduction in employees' tax. It's 4.5 million people in the public sector, in the private sector. And the 7 percent of the gross on average as it comes out, and I sent you the budget committee, the charts, the charts, exactly what it looks like, you can model the individual designs that come out. That's all they're gonna have. That's all. And we will even straighten the taxation, even though we are proposing it for two years, or the Prime Minister proposed it as a Member, we will straighten it between the CEOs and the employees. And in the consolidation strategy that I sent yesterday, we are modeling there, or we are modeling with colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, because it was all I had at my disposal, I took all the proposals, or we took all the proposals that went through the Committee on Budgets, which the Committee on Budgets recommended, although I do not know if they will fall into plenary, and they are included in the consolidation strategy with the fact that the employee tax reduction 15 and 23, because Andrej Babiš's proposal went through, so it is modeled there for two years. And since I, I don't know what the next government, the next parliament, the next political representation, will decide, we've put in there since 2023 a proposal that was in the current programming statement of the government 19, 23 and compensation of three-quarters of the premiums. But of course it's fiction. This could be completely different. Anyway, there's going to be a next government debate, a legitimate debate, a tax mix. And I'm sure she'll need to talk about her. So there's something that's fictional. Even Germany, which you have cursed here all day, and I have already said so, even Germany has planned the trajectory of consolidation, yes, you are right, but Chancellor Merkelová has made it clear that Olaf Scholz, the Minister of Finance, has also said that the specific measures whether they will be on the spending side or on the revenue side will be a question of the next debate. Germany is also before parliamentary elections. So please, he's not there, there are no specific measures in the material. Germany has planned a consolidation trajectory with specific measures being discussed. So far, we've proposed three of these in consolidation strategies... we're not counting on the revenue side yet, we say, that's the debate on the entire tax mix, and it has to be led by the next political representation. But we have put a freeze on the expenditure side of public sector salaries, non-valorisation of operating expenses, which means they are falling, and European money. And of course, like I said, I'm not going to repeat myself, it's going to be discussed. Otherwise, Mr. MP Skopečka, you're wrong that fiscal projections have always been made. I don't know which Treasury clerk you talked to, I don't care. But there was also no fiscal outlook in 2010. I'll refer you to our archives. My colleagues looked it up for me. At that time, the convergence programme was not done until autumn - it is normally done until the end of April. So in the spring there was no fiscal prediction, because it was essentially burdened with so much uncertainty that it just wasn't possible. So it's not true. It's not true. And that crisis was far from as deep as this one. So she gave you the wrong information. If you text me next time, or call me, just text me, I'll give you the exact information from the Ministry of Finance archives. The inclusion of the package is in the consolidation strategy we sent yesterday. In 2010 after the crisis - yet a small note - the general government deficit was 4,2 percent of GDP. We estimate a deficit of 4.9 percent of GDP for 2021, while the downturn and the crisis are much deeper. These are all numbers traceable, published and absolutely clear. It's not like we're gonna get sucked out of our finger here. So at this point, the government can't save in the way you're suggesting, the smart hobby, because on the other hand, you're proposing a whole series of spending increases, and then you're saying save. I just can't. Or specifically, tell me where. Please be specific once. Tell me, we'd take pensions, we wouldn't give teachers. Say it. Please say it. Because it hasn't come out yet. Mandatorial expenses are clear. I'm sure we agreed we didn't want to cut any of these things I was talking about. And one more thing. If I took that history... Where is it? [[He's looking in the materials.]] They gave me small graphs today, some small, some big, I'll do better. But it's all on my website. So these are the investments since 2013. [[He's pointing.]] I can bring it in next time since 2007. So we don't cut investment the way those crisis years cut investment. And I'm going to listen to how it's converted into GDP, but the numbers are clear and hard. Otherwise, according to clear and hard numbers, Mr. MP Skopečka, absent, ODS governments, when you hit our government so hard, have never had state budget surpluses or a balanced budget. So you'd be cool, if you -- I know you weren't there, I don't know -- if you said we were like that, we had the balance, we had the surpluses, you don't know how. We didn't. So now that we're having this kind of debate that I hate to have, but I just have to pick it up when the glove is thrown. [[17.30 hours]] So it's the same thing as always - it should be, it's spent, it's eaten. Just for the debt brake you were talking about - debt service, sorry, not debt brake, debt service, we're giving about 3.8 billion year on year. less, because we just make it meaningful and we set it up systemically. So on the contrary, it's a shame that politics wasn't wise back then. This isn't the MP, I'm talking to him. [[unintelligible]] It's a shame that there wasn't a wise politician back then, maybe today we could've built it on complete foundation. I'm not gonna beat myself in the boobs that we do everything best. No way. We could have done a whole lot better, but we could have done a lot worse. And once again, let us leave it to history, let it answer how we have acted in this crisis and how we have tried to support the economy and, above all, not leave our people and our companies behind. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u133	Thank you, too. Have a nice evening, dear colleagues. Mr. Jurečka has applied for the floor with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u134	Thank you. Good evening, Mr President, Madam Secretary, members of the Government, ministers of three, colleagues and colleagues. I'll take the liberty of responding to some of the things the Secretary of State said here in her final words. I think it is necessary to divide the debate a little bit in that summary into the question of whether, in a process, some things could not be done better. And here I think that if the tax package was presented here, the House press 910, the entire package of amendments to many laws relating to the revenue and expenditure of the state budget, was submitted to the House 24. 6. If there really was a will, you can see that here and the government coalition are using the Institute of extraordinary meetings, so at this point we had a third reading, and we could be in a situation where, at the moment of the first reading of the State Budget Act for next year, we would really know what to expect on the revenue and expenditure side. So here I can't agree with what the secretary said that it couldn't have been better done. Here I think that who are the commemorators of more parliamentary periods, as well as the Minister, who was in that last government as Deputy Minister of Finance, I do not remember discussing next year's State Budget Act and having such fundamental tax changes developed before the third reading. I really don't remember that happening. So much for the procedural side. Then the question of income, expenditure, and what the Minister here said about the opposition - what do you suggest we do, do not do, etc. I think that the key thing that lies on the table at this point is, above all, the way and approach to abolishing a super gross wage. I will overlook the debate in terms of the method of calculation that I consider to be wrong. I will remind you that in 2015, it was in the coalition government of ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL, we wanted to cancel it. At that time, when the economy was growing, the main argument about why it was not possible and why it failed at the coalition council was the argument of the then finance minister Andrej Babiš: I will not allow it, because this is a major loss of income in the state budget, cities and municipalities and regions. That's what the coalition partner dropped at the time when really there was very good economic growth. Cut. We are in a situation that is economically far worse today, more demanding. Yes, I understand that we have supported many of the decisions of this House, as well as the votes of KDU-ČSL Members, relating to the increase in care contributions, which concerned the valorisation of pensions relating to the financing of social services and assistance for the needy. We supported all this, and that was the consensus across the political spectrum in the Chamber of Deputies. But I really don't understand why, in a situation like this, there's going to be a super gross pay cut in a way that doesn't have an adequate tax system regulation against that, so that the revenue and expenditure in this operation can be offset. I really don't understand. Or at least to minimize the amount of the dramatic difference. It is necessary to tell those future generations, taxpayers in a few years, who will pay for it. The issue of government bonds will pay for this next year. But there's gonna have to be a government here that's gonna say in the years to come how we're gonna settle this big blackout in the state budget by adjusting other taxes that we're gonna have to raise. That's just the way to say it. Will it be real estate taxes? Is it good for cities and communities to figure it out? Or there will be other types of taxes - the question of VAT, the question of excise duties and so on.? That's basically what's missing from the debate. And I will just remind you that out of the roughly 85 billion crowns - I will repeat it again, yesterday the Minister disagreed with me - it is that half of this amount will go to the benefit of one quarter of the highest income workers in the Czech Republic. So the general declaration that it helps all people isn't true. To the highest income households where the employees are, this will bring up to CZK 5,800 per month according to the calculation. But to the lowest income, it doesn't bring them anything, or a completely insignificant amount. So when they wanted to go down the road to raise household income by reducing some part of their tax or supporting their income, it was much easier to make some proportionate increase in the discount on the taxpayer, or the discount on the child, as we propose for KDU-ČSL, and not make such a dramatic blackout. Including the fact that I don't understand that the government can't agree on this before it's filed here and it's being amended. Then please the Minister - who is on the phone, so he cannot listen to me completely - say the arguments: for there are colleagues from ODS, in the spirit you did not have surpluses, we had surpluses etc. I humbly sincerely say that what was done during the reign of Bohuslav Sobotka, that they were here for years with surplus budgets, was not the primary merit of the government itself. Yes, it has contributed to some of the measures, but to say and fight in the breasts - that we have a surplus budget of CZK 68 billion in this and that year, it simply cannot be said that the government succeeded because of how it worked the year before or in that year. It's just not like that. It was a co-operation of several factors, the ongoing programming period within the European Union, the financing of programmes, that is a fair admission. So please, nicely, let's work with the facts rationally, because even the public who sees these things should hear that what looks really, really sexy at first glance today, because they're all going to have more money all of a sudden, because they're going to have lower taxes, so people need to be told: many of you don't feel that way at all, and the vast majority of you are going to pay it in the future. And I'm afraid that doesn't ring a bell in this debate. So I'm sorry there's a lot of signals that say, some things aren't right, they want to look at it with a different optic. And I think that maybe going down the road when you asked where to get the savings, I think that if you said minus 10 per cent in terms of operating costs at individual resorts and subordinate organizations, that's a completely real thing. We will increase the salaries in the resorts, which are the most exposed today - health, education or e.g. Homeland. That's where I imagine these people are really dragging the fact that the company works at all, that's where I agree with that. But I don't see these things in the budget. It's been taken apart here several times today. So these are some things that I regret in this debate, and I consider them not entirely fair, which is why I came out here to set this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u135	Thank you, too. President Kalousek with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u136	Thank you for the floor. Let me just make two comments on the final speech of the Minister of Finance. Madam Secretary said she'd listen again to how the investments were relative to the gross domestic product and that she didn't want to hear it because she's paying hard numbers. Okay. If hard numbers apply, it is true that investments have increased, but debt has also increased. Or the ratio to gross domestic product applies, then the debt declined and the investment also decreased. One or the other, Madam Secretary, both are true. But it's completely irrational to use different propagandist methods for different numbers, as you can use them. Most people can read it. That was the first remark. Note two. The Minister of Finance took note of the deficit, which she too well knows will be greater than 320 billion, so she took a look at this deficit: it is a pity that your policy was not as wise as ours at the time. If we were doing as wise a policy as you are today, Madam Secretary, you were standing on a debt brake today, and I really don't know what you'd be doing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u137	Thank you. President Radim Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u138	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a brief comment on the first reading of the state budget. As has been said many times, we have all approved state budget deficits that have been increasing across the political spectrum. Someone voted for the smaller, someone for the bigger. And in this absolutely unique situation, unique since 1989, I think the things we approved were absolutely good and right to support the economy. On the other hand, as I have already said, this is a unique situation, and I am convinced that this is such a unique situation, which is directly calling for an inventory of expenditure pages of the state budget. I don't think anyone's checked the expenses for 30 years. Each government made spending according to its priorities, according to its electoral programs. And I am convinced that it is necessary to look at it again. We need some in 100 percent, maybe in 150 percent, but some only in 50 or 70. And, of course, I realize that if we start dealing with these things now, they will benefit us in, like, three years. The legislative process lasts a year, a year has to be in the state budget process, it has to work, and the third year has yet to see the results. But unfortunately, I do not see any concept - the concept of restructuring the state budget. And I'm sorry. If the government had said yes this year, in two years it would be that way, in four years we'd save enough to at least have the idea that we're not going to owe the next generation, so I think we're all better off falling asleep. But unfortunately, the government didn't do it, and the spending side of the budget remains the same. That means I didn't even notice the effort to save anything, such as operating expenses. As far as the spending side of the budget is concerned, I have to say we don't like it there, now I speak for the SPD movement, some things. It's mostly arms contracts. Although someone is arguing with offset programs, I am convinced that this is pure support for foreign economies at this difficult time. And I have my arguments, because, for example, the Fin have been restoring some military things and they have said yes, we will buy it, we also want a fighting army, but we will buy it in two, in three, in four, in five years, when the biggest economic crisis is over. And I expected our government to do that, too, but so far, I feel like she traded it for something or traded it somewhere in the world. So at the end of the SPD movement, we have to say, we are not in favour of this budget, we are not going to support it, and we are going to vote for the re-evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u139	Thank you. At the moment, Mr Skopeček, Vice-President of the ODS Club, is reporting with priority rights and will be prepared by the Vice-President of the Mayors and Independents Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u140	The Minister is so brave and sure of his arguments that he will always wait for the final word that I will not be able to perform. Fortunately, the President is not here at the moment, so I can have priority rights. Madam Secretary, you said that under the ODS governments there were no balanced budgets or surpluses, so I would recommend to the Minister to look at it, to learn it, because the entire 1990s, even during the unprecedented transformation of the economy from centrally planned to market, were balanced budgets until 1998, the Minister, and that was under the ODS governments. That's one thing. [[Comments from Secretary Schiller.]] Please let me finish, I wasn't jumping in either. Miloš Zeman started with budget deficits, who boasted today that he made them low, but he forgot to add that he was being held back by a tolerance patent that was closed between social democracy and the ODS. If it wasn't, Miloš Zeman and I have deficits considerably greater. He didn't sign up for that either. As far as complaints are concerned, I don't criticize the fact that there are mandatorial expenses. I criticize the way they develop dramatically and how they grow dramatically. So you're the one who's been showing Filipica what all the mandatorial expenses mean. I'm sure we all know the secretary as well as you do, so you could have forgiven yourself. I criticized how, even in times of economic growth, your mandatorial spending grew and how your government was unable to do anything about it, including pension reform. Investment, you will certainly paint what you want, but again I say to the share of GDP, which is certainly economically correct to list economic figures in some context relatively to gross domestic product so that it is comparable, so they are just the same this year as in the crisis in 2009. When you criticize the right-wing government, it's also so smiling. Because when I meet your colleagues in TV studios, right-wing governments criticize for saving too much. You're blaming the fact that in times of crisis, deficits have been made, so let's get this straight in the YES movement, whether Topolánkův's government should have saved more or spent more. Someone from the ANO movement says one thing, you say another, but it doesn't make any sense at all. So you need to think about these things a little bit before you say them on the microphone here, and even look at the chart and history a little bit. By the way, if Topolánkův's government and other right-wing governments weren't saving, you would be in a much worse situation today. And the fact that the ODS has historically been very responsible for budgets, unlike you, allows you to spend much more on less money today. Then it's just a reaction to your final word. And on behalf of the ODS Club, I will ask the President for a five-minute break before the final vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u141	I, of course, reflect this proposal. At this point, I will allow a performance representing the Vice-President of the Mayors' Club, Mrs Kovářová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, let me respond to the Minister's final speech in connection with the abolition of the super-gross wage. Madam Secretary asked, or asked, a question: when were we supposed to put it there, the cancellation? And I'll answer. In the government's programming declaration from June 2018, you have a cancellation of the super gross wage. So how many years did you have to do it? You've had more than two years. I will also recall the history of the Prime Minister's expression, that is to say, the Member who put the amendment in the tax package, his masterpiece. At first he stated, and I think he also loudly shouted that super gross wages are mega fraud on voters. It was interesting, however, when the ODS MP's proposal came in order for the supergross wage to be abolished, the Prime Minister turned around, did not mind the mega fraud on voters and said that the abolition of the supergross wage would destroy the Czech Republic. Does this mean that now that Mr Babiš, Prime Minister Babiš, is making such an amendment, so he says, do I want to destroy the Czech Republic? And just to remind ourselves of the history of how it was with the abolition of the super gross wage and the abolition of its abolition. In 2008, Minister of Finance Kalousek and then the government introduced a super gross wage. In 2012, this super gross wage was cancelled with effect from 1. 1. 2015 and, in connection with this, they also introduced a Single Recruiting Point. If we were doing as wise a policy as you are today, Madam Secretary, you were standing on a debt brake today, and I really don't know what you'd be doing. [[17.50 hours]] When your governments arrived, you were this unified collection point, this system, which could simplify filing, for example, tax returns, canceled, first of all, and secondly, you canceled a super-gross wage because you kept it. Why? You didn't mind the mega fraud on the voters. But the 80 billion each year didn't stink in quotes. So let's be clear about how it was with the cancellation, the introduction and the cancellation of the supergross wage. And the second thing, your question was, "So where to save?" Design expenses. I think the truth - it may be true that it is not possible to save tens of billions of operating expenditure in the current situation. But what do you have in the government statement? Digitization. And the digitalisation of public administration, or public administrations in particular, leads to huge savings. They did it in Estonia, and they can be saved up to 2 percent of GDP. So it's okay! But unfortunately, you missed this chance at savings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u143	If no one else claims priority rights, I'd like to call a recess before the final vote, we have two proposals here, by 17.56 hours. [[The hearing is suspended from 17.51 to 17.57 hours.]] So, colleagues, it's 5:57 p.m., time reserved for a five-minute break is up. I've called you all to the conference room. I'll check you all out, please log in with your I.D. cards. I will recapitulate what we will be voting on at this point. We will vote on two proposals. The first suggestion is Mr - or - yes, I'm sorry. I will give the rapporteur the floor, and it will guide us through these two votes. So I don't have to do it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u144	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, for the floor. We have basically three proposals ahead of us. The proposal, which is the Committee on Budgets, and then two counterproposals were dropped to return. With each being conceived differently and with a different text, we will decide best if we vote on both of these counters, and if you do not object, I suggest we vote in order as they were loaded. If there is no objection, I do not see, so the first motion for a resolution, or the first counter-proposal, was submitted by Mr Kalousek, and the motion for a resolution is: The Chamber of Deputies shall return to the Government the draft State Budget Act for completion with the following recommendation: 1. revenue adapted to economic reality, 2. Expenditure adjust the fact that the coronavirus crisis will continue. Date: 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u145	I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 263, registered by 101 Members, for 47, against 48. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u146	The second proposal is as follows: The Chamber of Deputies returns to the Government of the Czech Republic the draft Act on the State Budget for 2021, with the following recommendation: 1. retain the revenue in the amount proposed, 2. reduce expenditure by 120 billion, 3. Balance minus 200 billion. Date: 20 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u147	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 264, registered by 103 Members, for 49, against 41. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u148	And now we have the draft budget committee in resolution 463, if you allow me not to read it all, I have already done that in the debate. However, I will just say the main thing, which means that the Chamber of Deputies approves the basic data of the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2021 according to the House of Press 1067. And if you don't mind, I won't read it any more, as I say, I've read it all, I refer to its wording.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-11-ps2017-062-08-001-510.u149	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 265, registered by 103 Members, for 54, against 49. The motion was accepted. [[Messenger. Hard: That was all the suggestions.]] Thank you, Madam Secretary, thank you to the rapporteur, and I am ending the first reading of this point. At this point, we will address the merged debate on paragraphs 199, 198 and 197.
