ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u1	4. Government bill amending Act No. 23/2017 Coll., on Rules of Budget Responsibility, as amended by Act No. 277/2019 Coll. The House Press 812/ - Shortened Act Since we are to discuss this press in a short hearing, it is necessary in accordance with § 99 para. 5 assess whether the conditions for the examination of the above-mentioned draft law are limited. I am opening up a debate for a brief discussion. No one... I can see. Mr. Ferjenčík. So we are now discussing whether the conditions for discussion remain in the shortened negotiations. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This press deals with the state budget for 2021. There is absolutely no reason to discuss it in a legislative emergency in a shortened debate in this shortened regime. I completely disagree with that, and I think it's a flagrant abuse of that emergency and legislative emergency. Indeed, it is possible to discuss this law properly. I beg you to dismiss this motion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u3	Colleague Skopeček now, also to the conditions in the shortened negotiations. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u4	I'm joining it. This law is unnecessary because existing legislation already allows the government to break the fiscal rule of a 1% structural balance in times of exceptional circumstances, so that the government is not hindered today in order to be in debt or to have a greater deficit than this rule allows. At the same time, the law goes up to seven years in advance, when it allows a 1% balance for next year and then a 0,05 decrease in subsequent years. It's just something that's very important. This is a fundamental disbandment of budgetary rules, which, if we are to vote on it at all, we should discuss within the framework of the ordinary legislative process. [[11.20 hours]] The government wants to take advantage of the legislative emergency so that it can loosen up budgetary rules for years in advance and can be indebted at a time when we will no longer have to deal with the consequences of the Coronavirus crisis. After all, the Treasury released a prediction a few days ago. We can trust her or we may not, but it's a forecast by the Treasury, which says that next year, 2021, economic growth is expected at 3.1 percent, if I'm not mistaken. Why don't we be under the potential when we're almost on a potential product, when we're growing, when we're not in crisis, why does the government want to unwind the rules to x years ahead? It is an abuse of legislative emergency, and I also protest that we should discuss it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u5	Mr Jan Bartošek is now reporting for an assessment of the state of the hearing. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u6	Thank you for him. Short refill. The National Budget Board, too, states that there is no need to open and deal with this law in an accelerated reading. I join the KDU-ČSL and I think there are enough other instruments without amending this law, so we do not support it. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u7	Thank you. If no one checks in, we'll decide if there are conditions. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 23/2017 Coll., on Rules of Budget Responsibility, as amended by Act No. 277/2019 Coll., House Press 812, in a short hearing." I'm gonna sing, I'm gonna sign you off, I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. And the decision, the assessment of the Chamber of Deputies, whether there are conditions for discussing the bill in a short hearing, will be decided in the vote number 87, which I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 87. Of the 93 present for 51 and therefore 41 Members. The proposal was adopted and we will therefore continue in accordance with the provisions of Section 99 et seq. below. Government bill on budgetary liability rules, as amended by Act No. 277/2019 Coll., House Press 812, under the authority of the Government, will state Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. I'm asking for your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come before you with a government bill that governs the law on budgetary responsibility rules. A proposal to bridge the deep decline in the economy by not wobbling public finances, but helping to stabilise the economy. I'd like to structure my performance with the permission of a few parts. I will first comment on the legislative process, i.e. the reason why I propose to bring the law in a state of legislative emergency. I will comment on why it is short-sighted to believe that the problem only concerns this year, and I will indicate its scope which corresponds to the nature of the event. I will then add that it is really necessary to act immediately. A state of legislative emergency. I have been asked why I am presenting a bill in accordance with the provisions on the legislative process in a state of legislative emergency. The answer is simple. Paragraph 1 of Section 99 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies defines the legislative emergency as an exceptional circumstance where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the State or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage are significantly threatened. In the case of this proposal, it is precisely to avert significant economic damage that caused a global health and economic crisis as a result of the pandemic of a new type of coronavirus and its related measures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u9	[[He's coming in.]] Madam Vice-President of the Government, I will interrupt you and ask my colleagues to remain calm, including your party colleagues, so that you can justify a rather serious law in this extraordinary act. [[- Thank you.]] I still don't think that peace is enough. Thank you, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u10	Thank you. In the case of this bill, it is precisely the avoidance of significant economic damage that caused a global health and economic crisis as a result of the pandemic of a new type of coronavirus and related measures. This is fully fulfilled by the unfavorable exceptional circumstance necessary for declaring a state of legislative emergency. Why isn't the problem just this year? The Czech fiscal rule is rather harsh. Its escape clauses are strict and only apply to the year when adverse events occur. This is in itself okay, if it is a normal economic spike, but not if it is a completely unprecedented situation, a situation caused by extremely unfavorable circumstances, a spike that is not common only with its scope, so the influences that have provoked it. The emergency situation therefore requires extraordinary solutions. To protect the health of the population, we basically shut down a large part of the economy from day to day and shut down the whole world along with us. We cannot be expected to return to the same level of gross domestic product, employment and wage growth next year. The global health and economic crisis will affect the development of economies for many years, which, of course, has an impact on public budgets. Now allow a few words on the scale of the problem. From the state budget's point of view, we estimate that the total revenue will be more than 140 billion next year. CZK lower than indicated in the medium term. It is clear that, compared to this year, pension spending will only rise by a simple valuation of at least 34 billion. Crowns. Let us also remember the salaries in education. Their increase is 12 billion. We can also expect to grow in unemployment benefits and material distress. Moreover, at least part of the economic losses in the public health system will have to be compensated. While some of the examples mentioned here were part of the medium-term perspective of the state budget, the rest is either new or much higher in absolute terms. It's obvious the government doesn't want a blank check. And there is no risk of erosion of consistent control over public spending. The problem is due to insufficient revenue and the consequences of the leap break in the business cycle. And the turning point is so dramatic that for the first time in history, the European Commission has loosened the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact and the Fiscal Pact for all Member States of the European Union. At the same time, the problem is of such order and of a completely different nature that it cannot be addressed by the one-off or transitional measures recommended by the National Budget Board in its opinion. When else do we use the fiscal space given by the years of a positive structural balance, a surplus of public finances and low government debt than we do now? [[11.30 hours]] I don't understand why some guys are racking up the problem. By strictly complying with the current legislation on budgetary liability rules, I would have to find savings - please listen to me - or raise taxes of at least 150 billion. CZK compared to the medium term outlook of the state budget. Do we really want to return the economy to recession next year? Did we really not learn from the years after the 2009 recession when blind clinging to budgetary discipline, which had just missed the effect, completely contradicted the stabilization function of public finances? This too is the purpose of the Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility. After all, in its introductory provision in Section 2, it is said that the State and the local authorities are responsible for sound and sustainable public finances, with appropriate support for economic and social development, employment, etc. I understand that cutting or raising taxes is easier for someone. You don't have to think about the economic consequences, the fates of people. You're just blindly dealing with your wallet. But public finances aren't a system somewhere in the air. They are part of the national economy. One doesn't work without the other. Moreover, it is paradoxical that those who call for massive cuts also propose a number of measures that go in the opposite direction. Am I coming in early? The Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility clearly states that according to its provisions in the divorced methodological procedures agreed by the National Budget Board, even April will update the expenditure framework of the state budget for next year, which will then be formally approved by the government. These frameworks are then broken down into chapters in the coming months. In August, according to the new forecast, total expenditure can be adjusted only very limitedly. Thus, according to an exhaustive list of budgetary rules, the government cannot now set a framework of 150 billion. higher to maintain expenditure from the medium-term perspective. That's why there's a legislative emergency. For approval cannot be left to the normal legislative process. The government would not be able to present higher costs to the House in September. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not change the law on budgetary responsibility rules now, all efforts to dampen the current economic crisis at its depth and length will be counterproductive. We would help one recession to survive, the other to create a hard fiscal restriction. In the end, it wouldn't help anyone, people, companies or public finances. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u11	I thank the Minister of Finance and I note that the Committee on Budgets, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the President's decision, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 812/1. I will now ask the rapporteur, President of the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Miroslava Vostroa, to inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and to justify any amendments. We will still be addressed after her report by the report of the opposing minority of Members of the Committee on Budgets, then I will call on Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u12	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, thank you for the floor. Let me introduce you to the resolution adopted by the Committee on Budgets at its meeting on 6 April. Following the opening words of the Minister of Finance, the report and the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic close its negotiations no later than 18.00 on 8 April 2020; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to amend Act No. 23/2017 Coll., on Rules of Budget Responsibility, as amended by Act No. 277/2019 Coll., House Press 812, agreed without comment. That is the version of the resolution that has been adopted on the Committee on Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u13	Thank you to the rapporteur, and since we have received an opposition report from a minority of Members of the Committee on Budgets, which has been delivered as Parliamentary Press 812/2, I now ask that the rapporteur of a minority of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, and the opposing report be justified. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a number of my fellow Members in the Committee on Budgets disagreed with the majority position and, for this reason, we have drawn up an opposition report. We present a different view of this print. As Mr President said, you will find him in the system under number 812/2. That's where you can read the whole thing. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] I will read what I personally consider most important is point III of this opposition report, and it says this: The discussion of the House's 812 press in a state of legislative emergency is an entirely unjustified abuse of this institute. The law affects up to the State budget 2021 and there is sufficient room to discuss it properly. We would also like to stress that the government normally includes revenue based on laws that were not approved at the time of the State Budget Act, and often even submitted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u15	Mr rapporteur, I will also interrupt you and ask the House again for peace. We'll wait for the debate in the crowds to move into the lobby. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u16	So the claim that it is necessary for the state budget to have this whole legislation discussed is entirely on the water. The government is quite common in the opposite direction - it first submits a budget, then it submits laws to meet the revenue, often even in the end it doesn't. After all, let's look at the Digital Tax Act that the budget for this year counts on, which is on ice, so there are 2 billion state budget revenue cuts. The government doesn't care, and now he's operating here in April to pass a law that's gonna be important since January. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the Government itself has completely and utterly misguided the Office of the National Budget Board itself. The President of the National Budget Board is normally invited to the government's meeting, but this is not happening in the emergency regime, so it is not invited now. However, I consider it very rude to discuss the amendment of the Act on budgetary responsibility without the presence of the President of the National Budget Board to the Government, in addition to the lack of communication between the administration of the Budget Committee and the National Budget Board, even the President has not been invited to discuss this press on the Budget Committee, which is also extremely unfair. There is a complete circumvention of the institution that we have set up just in case of this crisis situation. And the last important thing. I have to completely oppose the claim that the pirát or the proponents of the opposition report are calling for some kind of acreage, a package of austerity measures to get us into some other recession. No. We are just stressing that in Section 10 of the Budgetary Responsibility Act in paragraphs 2, 4 and 5, there are sufficient instruments to allow deficit funding to avoid another crisis next year. After all, the National Budget Board itself confirms that one-off steps can be taken. [[11.40 hours]] It is explicitly there in § 10 para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (a) mentioned an emergency which advocates that we take one-off action in response to emergency measures that will stabilise the economy. This means, for example, it is possible, under this section, to apply an exception, for example, to a fall in income in relation to legal persons who would count their profits in their losses, as suggested by the Ministry of Finance. All this law allows. That law allows for a whole series of one-off expenses. And one-off needs to be taken in a broader context. The point is, it just has to be that they don't become mandatory expenses. One can support the economy even at a time when this will lead to a significant deficit in the state budget. However, and that is what the government wants to avoid, the National Budget Board would have to give its opinion on these actions. And the government wants to avoid the budgetary board pointing out that some steps are not extraordinary and one-off, but they are long-term steps. And with the long-term moves, the government wants to have a blank check, which is why they're changing the law right when it's supposed to really work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u17	I thank the rapporteur for the minority of the Committee on Budgets. We can open a general debate, but we must vote that we will have a general and detailed debate under the draft budget committee. Again, according to the rules on the proposal - the President of the House will take up the procedural proposal. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u18	Hello. I don't want to touch it too much. [[He's setting the microphone.]] Everyone's touching it. Only the process proposal should be heard. I propose that, both in the general debate and in the detailed debate, we limit the speaking time to five minutes, one presentation by the Member of the general, or detailed, as we have in the case of the others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u19	Thank you. We will decide that in the vote number eight eight, which I will begin. [[Responses in plenary.]] Common first. Vice-President Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u20	I don't know exactly what my colleague Ferjenčík thinks I'll say if he fills me in. I would just like to say that I do not always consider it necessary to vote on having a general debate. I believe that this is a matter on which the House can comment, but if the proposal not to have a general debate does not fall, then we do not need to vote on it. I would, therefore, beg, if we have to vote, so that this is voted on separately from the vote on the shortening of the time, because I have a relatively ambivalent view of whether or not we will have a general debate or not. I am, of course, in favour of leading it, but I have a rather strong view that a reduction to five minutes, especially in such controversial proposals, is not good. So I'd like to vote separately. Or I'm proposing that we take ten minutes for these speeches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u21	Okay. So all you're suggesting is a ten-minute change. When it comes to voting on the general debate, I see it differently, but that is irrelevant. Please, colleague Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would like to clarify whether this proposal by President Vondráček limits the number of speeches in the debate. [[The President: It does not. - P.S. Chairman's reaction off the mic.]] I believe that it is not possible to limit the debate to one speech per Member. I think it is contrary to the Rules of Procedure. [[- It's not.]] So I think this proposal is unvoting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u23	Mr President, if it is proposed that one Member will have one speech in the general, one speech in the detailed debate and the number of Members from the club is not limited, it is not a restriction under the Rules of Procedure. That is a voteable proposal. Let's listen to each other and see what anyone is saying and suggesting. The motion of President Vondráček, Vice-President Pikal, has been made. A colleague of Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u24	I believe that the Rules of Procedure allow Members to be limited to only two speeches, that it is not possible to limit the number of speeches to one according to the Rules of Procedure. That's why I think the proposal is unvoting. I therefore object to the President's procedure, if he insists that this proposal is voteable, so that we can decide by vote. And if this objection is not accepted, I suggest that there be at least two speeches, so that the debate can at least be actually conducted. Because we really can't call a debate something that we can't even respond to the Minister's words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u25	Yes. The President, with priority rights, is still on the agenda. Otherwise, we will vote against the President's procedure. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u26	Mr. Ferjenčík's proposal for two performances is entirely legitimate. It is a specification of § 99 para. 7, which speaks only of the fact that it can be limited to up to five minutes. I don't share your legal opinion, that means two performances. This is a special modification, which is according to § 109, which we had yesterday. Or maybe it's in the general provisions that we normally have, normally. But this is a special regime - Section 99. And I have the legal opinion that it is possible, in this case, for the House to express itself as a sovereign and specify that this is one performance, because paragraph 7 only speaks of the fact that it can be limited to five minutes. I would also like to point out that we have voted in this way at least four times. This means that I consider all the proposals that have fallen to be legitimate. So we're going to vote that it's going to be reduced to ten minutes first, because it was counterproposal, then we're going to vote that five. And then I suggest twice, once. So the four votes should follow from my point of view, and the House will decide as a sovereign.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u27	The first vote is that there is an objection to the President's procedure. Who agrees that I have acted irregularly? We will decide in the vote number 88. Who agrees with the opposition to the President's procedure? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 88 out of 96 present for 24, against 37. [[The motion was not accepted.]] We will therefore proceed by continuing to vote on individual proposals. First of all, shortening the time for one speaker to ten minutes. We're going to decide in the 89 vote that I started, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 89 out of 96 present for 17, against 6. The motion was not accepted. Now cut the speaking time to five minutes. I've started voting number 90. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 90 of 97 present for 67, against 8. The motion was accepted. And now, then, that after one speech, there is one Member in the general and one speech in the detailed debate. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] Yes. Twice first. Yes. So I'll do it twice first. That's vote number 91. Who's in favour of two performances with one MP? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 91 of the present 97 for 26, against 7. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote that each Member has the right to one speech in a general and one speech in a detailed debate, in the '92 vote that I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 92 of 97 present for 72, against 11. This proposal has also been adopted. President of the Chamber of Deputies. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u28	Just to be precise. We started the debate before we voted on a general debate. There was an objection from Vice-President Pikal that there was no need to vote on this. I actually agree with him. However, the Committee on Budgets adopted a resolution proposing that the general debate be held. The committee can put it there, they don't have to. But since the motion is in the resolution, I think we should vote. So there should be a vote on the fact that we are having a general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u29	All right. Just in case, I think it's a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies, and I don't want to have a procedural dispute, I understand and I think I can hear Marek Benda's objection, if I can have it voted without debate, that we are running it when it is in the budget committee resolution, my colleague. [[with laughter]] I've started voting 93 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 93 of the 97 for 83, against no one. The motion was accepted. I therefore open a general debate. First is Mr Miroslav Kalousek, second is Mr Radim Fiala. Mr President, before I give you my word, Mrs Adamová Pekarová has a replacement card number 16. [[Noise in the hall.]] I'll ask the House for some peace. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill on budgetary responsibility rules, which was long called a financial constitution, wished a number of political representations 15 years ago. It wasn't successful because no one could imagine it wasn't a constitutional law. He's supposed to be the constitutional law. And the constitutional majority was never found for him. The current government representation has bypassed it and passed an ordinary law instead of constitutional law, to which many of us have responded: what is the point if it is not a constitutional law? Well, at the first collision, the government, the government, the simple majority, will adjust it as much as it likes. That means it's not a stabilization rule. Today's... because it was a social democracy and the YES movement in the past, so even today's government majority said, "That's not true, we'll honor it." After all, the National Budget Board, which is set up on the basis of the same document as this law, will be the guardian of these rules, because all the countries that have acceded to the EU's fiscal convention have committed themselves to establishing a national budgetary board and to approving a law on budgetary responsibility, which has somehow succeeded. Well, what happened in the first crisis situation? There's exactly what we were worried that the government was saying, well, now it's just not right for us, so we're just gonna change it. The government was right about the argument that the National Budget Council was here on guard, but someone would have to respect that. The National Budget Board has expressed very strongly against the adoption of this law. Even so strongly that, in addition to the standard and written opinion of its chair, it has also appeared in the media, and in yesterday's Hospodářské noviny we can read a very erudized article called Avoid the pandemic trajectory of debt - I recommend the article to read - where it very clearly and clearly describes why it is harmful to receive this amendment. So we set up the National Budget Council. There we nominated the respectable renowned economic figures - Professor Pavel, Professor Hindls. Madame Zamrazilová, former member of the Bank Board of the Czech National Bank, is head of the board. Those in good faith recommended and warned the government, even so strongly, that they warn the entire public about the step you have on your desk - and the government says, "Why would we listen to them? They're total losers. We'll only listen to them if they say what we like. If we don't like it, we don't really give a shit about the National Budget Council. Just as we give a shit about the commitment to budgetary responsibility. We don't care about anything that doesn't suit our immediate intentions. I think it's extraordinary irresponsible. Moreover, it is really pointless. Like none of us know... If anyone thinks they know what the fall of gross domestic product will be at the end of this year, he's psychic. The Ministry of Finance is forecasting minus 5.1, which is simply - 5.6 corrects me Madam Secretary [[Minister of Finance off the microphone: 5.6.]] Which is probably serious - not likely, certainly a serious prognosis based on the information available today. But the variables, there's so much uncertainty, what if it's eight at the end of the year? What if it's ten? And you here today want to approve that it's going to be four and that every year you're going to consolidate it half a point. What do you do with this law if it's ten by the end of the year? You're going to do the same thing as if you didn't accept a novel today, because this law counts on the one who is now in charge of extraordinary events, counting on disasters. Not only does he expect fluctuations in the business cycle, but he actually expects disasters as well. This means that fiscal rules can be loosened in the case - I am quoting from this law - in the case of an environmental disaster, in the event of a national security threat - that can be an armed conflict - and in the case of a pandemic. The law on budgetary responsibility, which you have adopted, really thinks about pandemics. And he expects that in such a case, you can loosen up the budgetary discipline that is written in that law. There are essentially two reasons why the government is presenting this. One is purely official. I understand the Ministry of Finance's apparatus, which is to write a convergence programme and a financial strategy at the end of April and to start writing a budget with a medium-term outlook in May, and now it doesn't know on what basis. We don't know what it's gonna be. No one knows. So, House, decide it'll be four. And 3.5 next year. And the next year, 3. Yeah, but it doesn't have to be true at all. But that doesn't matter anymore, because the House with its authority told him how it should be, and he can write the relevant documents now. In other words, it can write exact sums of completely inaccurate numbers. The documents will be useless, but the apparatus will be off the hook because the House told him how to write it. Well, that's one very serious reason that, as a long-term civil servant, I actually understand a little bit, but I consider it completely unnecessary work. The more serious reason is that the government is saying in advance: Well, we know that there will be elections, and we want to say in advance that we are willing to do any debt trajectory so that we do not have to take unpopular measures to force us to do the budgetary responsibility law. Well, let's just... let's turn this budgetary responsibility bill into a budget irresponsible law, which is exactly what you have on your desk right now. [[12.00 hours]] You know, I've been terribly disappointed that constitutional law has not been passed, because fiscal compact expects it to be constitutional laws. And in most countries, it was also possible to approve this by a constitutional majority. In the end, I was glad that at least the law was passed by a simple majority. But if at the first mine that met us on the path of normal development, and the law is written for those mines, if you change it at the first mine, then you make it completely worthless. As you scornfully ignore the National Budget Council, so you will scornfully ignore the law that you have made and approved here. It won't be worth the paper it's written on. And that's not what the law deserves. This, above all, does not deserve a future generation, to which, in the case of the approval of this law, you will enemyly attack, as Mrs doc says. Zamrazilová, Chairman of the National Budget Board, pandemic debt trajectory. If you really want to attack future generations, if you want to throw them into a difficult situation just to make you look pretty today, raise your hand for it. History is gonna count it for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u31	President Radim Fiala now has priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u32	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me also a few words for the SPD movement. First of all, I must say that we have joined and voted in favour of the motion for rejection, because we think that this amendment is an important amendment to the budget, although we could approve it and discuss it in a normal legislative process, and we did not have to use the legislative emergency to do so today. Furthermore, it is also necessary to say - and that is nothing we do not know. It should be said that the state budget or state finances were no longer in good shape before the coronavirus pandemic. After all, all the statistics mentioned that the first two months of this year were the worst in the history of the independent Czech Republic. It must also be said that the government has collected money from all state and semi-state companies in recent years and we have eaten almost everything that was in this state. In English, we weren't thinking about state circles. And so did the Supreme Audit Office, which said that the state budget is not well prepared for a possible crisis. Now the government wants a general pardon for budgetary responsibility until 2028. We are constructive opposition, so I say that I would understand such a proposal, and we would even be prepared to support such a proposal, but under certain conditions. The main condition is that the government will also present a comprehensive economic strategy of the Czech Republic, which will be based on a responsible and real prediction of economic threats as well as the needs of this country. I do not deny that in such an economic strategy we would like to hear things like that. protection of Czech companies in relation to public contracts, taxation of multinational corporations, which at this time have downloaded liquidity from their daughters, funds, to mothers, strengthening the competence of the Czech National Bank over foreign banks, end of financing of political non-profits, end of positive discrimination against social parasites, savings in state administration, real national investment plan to ensure the country's infrastructure, its food and especially energy security, as well as security in general. Of course, this means telling Brussels and, therefore, the European Union that we are ending their policy and their dictation. Unfortunately, this is not happening, and it probably will not, because the Prime Minister of this country has committed himself to adopting a carbon policy, a carbon neutrality policy that will cost us another 100 billion a year. So we don't have anything like that on the table from the government yet, and in other words, we're ready to release more hands to the government, but we need to know what the target is. If we don't know, we have to say no, because we have a responsibility to the people in this country who pay the taxes you now manage. So the SPD will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u33	Thank you. Mr Jan Hrnčíř will now be speaking in the debate. Mr. Jiří Dolejš will be ready. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u34	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will just briefly add to the President of the Fiala. We in the SPD are fully aware of the negative effects of coronavirus on the Czech economy. That is why we have proposed and also supported measures that help our economy and our citizens and entrepreneurs and businessmen. Without blinking an eye, we raised our hand for the amendment to the State Budget Act for 2020, which increased the budget deficit to fivefold. We supported it in the blink of an eye. However, what is being discussed here at the moment is still in a state of legislative emergency, even if it is not necessary to address this in a state of legislative emergency, because it is indeed a law that can take place in the normal process, because for this year we have solved public finances or the state budget at the last meeting. What is being proposed here is what I would call a Czech dream, or at least a dream of the Czech government. Because the government basically wants to change the rules of budgetary responsibility by the way, the National Budget Board also oversees the budgetary responsibility. If this were approved, they could probably turn off the lights for the next eight years, lock the house down, and come back in eight years, because basically the government could spend almost as much as it wants, and they'd always say, "Well, that's the bugger coronavirus, right? What about us? And the opposition could just stand by and watch the government bribe their voters or something. I think that this is immoral, this proposal in a state of legislative emergency, and therefore we cannot in any way support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u35	Thank you. Mr Jiří Dolejš, Mrs Kovářová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There can be no other way than to make a few comments about the immorality of this practice, if you please, behind the KSČM faction. Are we really going to put away many years of effort by this step to have an effective standard for fiscal discipline? This effort has a complex history, and after all, the criterion of effectiveness is how it works in practice. The truth is that originally colleagues in the ODS sometime in 2003, I think it was, they had such an idea that they would bring about balanced budgets. Then Prime Minister Nečas received a motion for a financial institution. Nothing. The proposal for a financial institution was made by Prime Minister Sobotka, and in the end it was an ordinary law, because otherwise we were unable to agree. And that agreement, which to some extent emptied the sense of this standard and to some extent pointed to the weaknesses of this standard, so the instrument that everyone here defends, and thinks it's a higher moral principle to defend it to the last man, so it's probably really leaky. Unless he's in practice. And now I would like to touch on some of the points of the opposition report. First of all, you claim that what we do is a fatal threat of disbanding finance. An article from the Hospodářské noviny on the pandemic trajectory was quoted here. Well, what's the reality? The fact is, what's going on this year is probably going to be reverend in the coming years. And now it's a matter of whether we're able to handle it under the fiscal discipline rule. [[12.10 hours]] And here's the main problem. Because on Monday we received a competent legal opinion from the Budget Committee, signed by the Ministry of Finance, where it is claimed that this is non-applicationable for 2021 because the escape clause cannot be applied ex ante. That it's always possible for that year when there's a problem, so the escape clause is applied, but it can't be applied ex ante for years more. It's a legal opinion, but a legal opinion of competent jobs in executives. So I take it seriously, and, of course, we can have a debate on the extent to which the open fiscal space is open little, much, really cannot be planned. So, of course, this is a matter of discussion, and it is understandable that an institution like the National Budget Board, which is supposed to lead us to be cautious in the job description, has an opinion that this will not be necessary, and perhaps we would all celebrate if it were not necessary. But let's say that the realization in that fiscal space is a matter of political authority that will rule. So if it's eight years or seven years in advance... I have no idea what the government will be like in 2027, but certainly not this one. I think that's quite clear. So in that sense, it's largely open. And the same is happening on European soil, where the escape clauses are, of course, activated, where the fiscal compact, which was signed by the way already in 2013, does not function as a relevant brake, and the European authority, the European Commission, is, in principle, tolerating that. The second set of reservations in the opposition report is an unjustified abuse of the process, i.e. a legislative emergency. Well, yes, but if the National Budget Board, which expressed itself in the sense that the law applicable to flexible fiscal policy could be used, that is, the escape clause and the possibility of one-off measures, if it were wrong, then, of course, there is no abuse, and if there were even disputes, which hopefully will not happen, then the legal position of the Ministry of Finance is on the balance board. I will end by reminding our position in 2016, when this law was adopted, that the central government - I don't know what else to call the Sobotkův government - was attacked from the right for emptying and softening the amendment and we criticized it from the left for a number of substantive reasons, and one of them was the methodology for applying the structural balance as criteria. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So unfortunately, the truth turned out to be true. The methodology is wrong and we have to act on the wrong methodology. This is the conclusion, or support of this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u37	Thank you. Mrs Kovářová, Mr Skopeček will be ready. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, let me also speak for the Mayors and Independents Club. This proposal increases the maximum permitted structural deficits for 2021 to 2027 from 1% of GDP to 4 percent for 2021 and then further reduces by half a percent. The explanatory memorandum of the Government's proposal states that if such an adjustment had not been approved, the government would have had to set up a fiscal policy in 2021 in the event of an now expected sharp decline in the economy in 2020. I think everyone agrees - and so did the Minister - that the emergency situation calls for extraordinary measures, both in speed and in the amount of funds. I think that the entire House has shown that it is aware of this and has supported the government's proposals and I think that others will support it. The problem is that we don't know what the situation will look like this year, no one can predict it. We know that fiscal stimulus to the economy will be necessary this year, but probably also in the following year. However, the current wording of the law in this case does not limit the government's fiscal space by its 1% limit. The law contains measures to enable the government to respond appropriately to emergency situations associated with significant economic problems without being linked to it by 1%. The measures provided for by law mean that if the government needs to stabilise the economy at a certain time, it can do so and can therefore exceed the maximum value of the structural balance laid down by law. This is also the case for other measures where the costs are incurred on the basis of an emergency situation or expenditure related to the expected significant deterioration of economic development. If we were to anchor the maximum structural deficit for 2021 to 4 per cent, we certainly consider this to be redundant because the wording of the law allows the necessary fiscal measures to be taken. I disagree with my colleague Dolejš that he says that the methodology developed by the Ministry of Finance is not correct. Therefore, since we do not know what the economic development for 2020 will look like or what this development will look like in the coming years, I do not think it is necessary to take this into account by the specific number, i.e. by the 4%. As regards the way we vote, we will not support this law because it is approved in a legislative emergency. If we adopt this law, there is certainly no guarantee that the government will only use the funds to eliminate the economic effects of the coronavirus crisis, and, of course, there is a great risk of an increase in the debt of the public finance sector. Among other things, what bothers us extremely is that this proposal has not been consulted by the National Budget Council, although we have seen, for example, 808, how many institutions have been addressed and gave opinions. Therefore, for these reasons, the Mayors and the Independents will certainly not support this proposal and are in favour of rejecting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u39	Thank you. Mr Jan Skopeček will now appear, Mr Munzar will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u40	Thank you very much. I want to say that the amendment that we are about to adopt today goes directly against the meaning of the law itself, against the meaning of fiscal rules and fiscal institutions, as we know them in the world. These rules are not only adopted for a period of good economic weather, only for a period of economic growth, but these rules are adopted to apply even when the economy is not doing so well or when a completely extraordinary situation is coming. This is why the rules also think of emergency situations and allow governments to cross even strict fiscal rules at other times. This is also the case in the Czech Republic's law on budgetary responsibility, and as the National Budget Board of the Government has written in its opinion, our law has sufficient tools for the government and the Finance Minister to fail to respect the fiscal rule of a 1% structural deficit due to an emergency situation. Thus, nowhere in the world budgetary rules and fiscal institutions are designed for a period of not only economically good weather, but also for a period of economic downturn. After all, our law was adopted, along with that in a number of European countries, as a response to the latest economic crisis in 2008-2009, which exposed unhealthy public finances to a number of eurozone countries, and let's face it, not very healthy public finances of the Czech Republic. [[12.20 hours]] The fact that the euro area, as well as other countries, had to launder fairly difficultly with their debt led to the adoption of budgetary rules by the representatives of these states. We're here just a few weeks after the first infected person's announcement, we want to loosen the rules until 2027. Madam Secretary, may I ask you? [[Minister Schiller, who is speaking to Mr Faltynek at the rapporteur's table.]] Thank you very much. After a few weeks of notification of the first patient, we are trying to unwind the budget rules until 2027, at a time when we are just beginning to calculate economic damage, and even according to the Ministry of Finance and its prediction, the Ministry of Finance is expecting an economic growth of 3.1 percent next year. At a time like this, the government wants us to loosen up the budget rules by 2027 without knowing what the economy is going to do in a week, two weeks or a year. I see this as a clear abuse of this situation in order for the government to create room for irresponsible budgetary measures. As Madam Secretary, I am not concerned that the government is taking any economic cuts. On the contrary, I fear that public finances will not be disrupted. If you read the article already mentioned by the President of the National Budget Council of the Government, he points out that if the government had applied this relaxed rule, we would have encountered the debt brake as another part of the budget rules in five years' time, and there would have automatically been some rules that would have brought public finances, public budgets in order, and according to the standard prediction of the National Budget Board due to the ageing population that the National Budget Board is counting, we would normally not have reached that threshold until 20 years later. So what we see here is how the government wants to open up space for it to loosen up, or to break down fiscal rules and public budgets. It is clear to me that there must be some fiscal impulse in the economy. After all, the citizens' democrats, I think, were very responsible in discussing individual economic measures, and the government has had our support in a number of matters, but it will certainly not have it in this. We understand that we need to help and deal with current things, but many of us have children and do not want to live in a country with broken finances, because even our children can sometimes reach a moment, a crisis, caused by a virus or something else, when they will also need fiscal space to help the economy. We're gonna take him away from them. This will steal their future. I'm against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u41	Thank you. Mr Vojtěch Munzar will now speak in the general debate, Mr Martínek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, first of all, I will take a technical stand on the 87-order vote when I am late for high school. I voted against it, it doesn't change the outcome, but for the tapestry. I'm not questioning it, just to say that I was against it. Now to this bill, when the government in a state of legislative emergency calls for us to free up the conditions of budgetary fiscal responsibility for seven years. But we will find the real reason why the government is asking for it before the crisis. When you look at the outcome of the state budget for January to February, that is, at a time when there was no impact of the corona-based crisis on state finances, then the government ran a deficit budget of 27.4 billion in the first two months. Crowns. This was the worst result of state finances since 1993, i.e. in the modern history of the Czech Republic. In 2019, the government spent 18 billion on reserves from the National Property Fund in order to reduce the deficit optically. CZK for current expenses. Why am I talking about this? I was provoked by the Minister himself, who gave a bit of a pejorative speech here at the beginning, that whoever does not want to approve this law is in favour of raising taxes and not thinking about the economic effects of managing the state budget. In fact, this included the National Budget Board, which itself has reservations about the adoption and the negotiation of this law. And I must say that the Minister himself used an argument which I would say was out of order. But perhaps the Minister spoke about the way the ANO ministers managed state finances, because you have treated state finances in this long-term and planned way. You did not think about the impact on the economy, you decided on state finances only from an accounting but not really economic point of view, not with regard to long-term impacts. You have not prepared our state finances for worse times, you have only massively raised state spending, you have spent reserves at a time of economic growth, and you have managed the deficit. In the Ministry of Finance, the ANO movement has had its ministers for more than six years. Neighbor Germany, for example, has created reserves. It is clear that it is a stronger economy, but enough money could have gone into the economy. And we don't have a pillow like that. After six years of the YES movement at the Ministry of Finance, we do not have reserves, and the result is this disbanding of the rules of budgetary responsibility. I told you, Madam Secretary, two years ago when we were discussing the state budget, that you were treating the state budget, I mean the ANO movement, like an irresponsible bohemian who spends on parties and borrows on them, and when the welfare period is over, the life of such a bohemian will end and then he will curse himself that he didn't rather invest in his house than in parties. I have to say, unfortunately, my words came sooner and worse than I thought. The disbandment of budgetary responsibility for seven years is abuse of the crisis and concealing the mismanagement of the government of recent years. And we agree that today, in an emergency time, sufficient support must come, which will not only sustain employment, keep businessmen, keep companies, but not only hold back, but such support to enable these economic operators, as quickly as possible, but also their clients to start consuming, buying, investing, because that is how the economy is going to start. And I must say that I may be sorry that yesterday, Madam Secretary, you did not agree to postpone the VAT maturity and the unpaid invoices, at a time when payment is slowing down. In short, you did not agree to leave sufficient money at the time of the economic crisis for these economic operators, VAT payers. So please do not say that anyone who does not agree today to break the rules of budgetary responsibility for seven years is in favour of raising taxes. This is not really the case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u43	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Martínek will now appear, Mr Klaus will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote the comments of the National Budget Board on the Government's proposal for a change of law No. 23/2017 Coll., on the rules of budgetary responsibility, which should certainly be mentioned here. At its extraordinary meeting on 1 April 2020, the Government of the Czech Republic approved a draft law amending Act No. 23/2017 Coll., on Rules of Budget Responsibility, hereinafter referred to as the Act. The basis of the proposal is a rapid increase in the maximum permissible structural deficit values for 2021 to 2027 from the level of 1% of GDP as set out in the current version of the Act. In particular, for 2021, it is proposed to set the maximum permitted structural deficit value at 4 per cent and in subsequent years the structural balance should be improved to a minimum of 0,5 per cent. The explanatory memorandum of the Government's draft law states that if this adjustment had not been approved, the government would have had to set fiscal policy more restrictively in 2021 in the event of the economy's now expected sharp decline in 2020. This, according to the explanatory memorandum, would most likely trigger an economic recession. [[12.30 hours]] The NRR agrees that the current situation calls for extraordinary measures both to the extent and to the speed of their adoption. It is also aware that some of these measures and probably some degree of fiscal stimulus of the economy will also be needed in the following year. However, the current wording of the law in this case does not limit the government's fiscal space by its 1% limit. [[to say restricts]] The reason for this is the existence of several institutes, which the law contains and which enable fiscal policy to respond appropriately to emergency situations associated with major economic problems without being bound by a 1% limit. First of all, it is necessary to mention the institute of one-off and transitional measures which are taken into account when establishing expenditure frameworks. This means that if the government needs to stabilise the economy by reducing revenue in a time-limited period, e.g. discounts on insurance premiums or increases in expenditure, e.g. a time-limited supply programme for the self-employed, the estimated scope of these measures may exceed the maximum value of the structural balance laid down by law. The same is true when applied so-called. Escape provisions. These are, for example, expenditure incurred on the basis of an emergency situation or expenditure related to the expected significant deterioration of economic development. According to the National Budget Board, anchoring the maximum value of the structural deficit for 2021 to 4% is redundant, since the current wording of the law, as well as the methodological materials developed by the Czech Ministry of Finance in cooperation with the Council, allows the necessary fiscal measures to be taken. Moreover, at a time when the contours of economic development are not known for 2020, let alone for the following years, it is not reasonable, from the perspective of the National Budget Board, to set specific values for structural deficits in the law. Furthermore, the National Budget Board considers that the laws not only in the area of fiscal rules should be universally applicable and should not, as far as possible, take account of any specific situation by new paragraphs relating only to a certain period or one year. In this context, the Council also considers it inappropriate that the draft amendment to the Act on the rules of budgetary responsibility for which the Board is to supervise was not consulted with key actors, which according to the law include, among other things, the National Budget Board, nor were they notified of this intention. The members of the National Budget Board realise that the current situation requires, above all, speed and actionability, but, on the other hand, it is not possible to adopt, at all costs, changes that are not strictly necessary to overcome the crisis. Although the National Budget Board agrees that the fiscal policy response must be sufficiently massive in crisis situations such as this, it also calls again for the most effective targeting of the resources spent. The government does not have unlimited resources, and it is therefore necessary to focus individual measures where they either prevent major social problems associated with, for example, the collapse of businesses, businesses or redundancies, or bring a considerable positive stimulus to the domestic economy. Even in a situation where citizens' health is a priority, such dislodgement of fiscal policy is not necessary in the next seven years. Moreover, there is no guarantee that the increased fiscal space will be used only for expenditure and revenue measures relating to the elimination of the economic effects of the coronavirus crisis, and there is a risk of denying the meaning of the rules on budgetary responsibility and of unwarranted opening up the space for increasing the debt of the public institutions sector. This is a quote from the National Budget Council, which should certainly be heard elsewhere than in plenary, even during the negotiation of the law in question, or even much earlier, so that institutions such as the National Budget Board can participate in it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u45	Thank you. Mr Václav Klaus will now appear, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, you are witnessing to me that I am not part of the hysterical criticisms of the government in everything that it does, unlike others, that it is not every time the government presents something, so at any cost I try to find what is wrong with me to be different. However, on this point, I must say...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u47	Yes, I ask for the peace and attention that the Member needs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u48	However, I must say that the government is pretending to print money, and otherwise nothing happens. The welfare state will continue to take care of everyone. That doesn't fit reality and you lie to people. The state won't give you much, it has to take it away from somebody first. And what the state gives you, so we see it every day. We saw it in your robes -- your mom or your sister or somebody made a drape for you. We see it at the food -- it has food for one day, and God knows if I don't want to put my hands on those material reserves. It is always the benefit of people, businessmen, farmers, and a functioning economy. It's just quite obvious that we need to start saving. To start saving unnecessary expenses, and that there are tens of billions of them in every budget chapter, despite all the inclusions and all that nonsense. And I read yesterday's proposal for Members not to take wages to take only compensation, so I hope you'll let me finish this speech and not lynch me. Because there is also a need to make a gesture from the point of view of the state administration and of us Members. I think that Members can normally work, once a month, as we do now, get high and vote on proposals, and there is no reason that three weeks out of four are collapsing on committees, and in the end it is decided by some PR advisor from the Prime Minister who votes. I will not support this law, and I appeal very much to you - I do not want to say here a thing that could be interpreted as an alarm report. But if this law is passed, I know what I'm going to do with my own funds. And it won't be any good news for this country's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u49	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Ferjenčík, the last one entered into the debate at the moment, and President Zbyněk Stanjura, who has applied, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to ask the secretary two questions. Firstly, why the National Budgetary Council completely bypassed the preparation of this law. At a time when all those other crisis laws could be discussed with broad groups of people, this law was submitted without any consultation with the institution in charge of the issue that we set up precisely to deal with the crisis situations. First of all. Secondly, I wanted to ask why the provisions of Section 10 (2) are not sufficient. 4 of the Act, which states: The Ministry may increase the total expenditure of the public institutions sector by (a) the expenditure of the public institutions sector arising from the deterioration of the state's security situation linked to government declared exceptional measures to increase its defence on the basis of an emergency situation, a state of emergency or a state of war. So the emergency situation is explicitly referred to as a reason for which expenditure can be increased.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u51	Thank you. President Zbyněk Stanjura in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u52	Thank you for the floor. I would divide my performance into two parts. It is the first law that we adopt in a state of legislative emergency, when the House is clearly divided into government Members and opposition Members. And we have three government parties and six opposition parties, which agree very little, all opposition parties. This in itself suggests that the proposal for this law in a state of legislative emergency is not appropriate. So far, we have discussed and approved ten laws in a legislative emergency, and we citizens of the Democrats have supported nine, although the vast majority of our amendments to individual proposals have not passed. Only with the amendment to the 2020 Budget Act have we abstained. But at the same time, we didn't criticize him because we said it was clear that the deficit would be at least 200 billion. And we all want it to be as small as possible, but I don't think it's realistic, unfortunately, and it can be much higher. This in itself should lead the government and the government's Members to wonder why they are pushing this proposal - if they decide to support it - against the general opposition. I think that the opposition, as I have already said, has shown great helpfulness at this time and the sensible ideas of the government, for example, in parameters other than what it imagined, supported. In this case, it is not, and I think that if it passes through the House, it will be very problematic to approve this proposal in the upper chamber. The reasons why this proposal should go - if at all, it should go through a standard legislative process. In less than 14 days, another meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin, where items should be discussed in a proper legislative process. [[12.40 hours]] It is paradoxical that in this law, this law that we are discussing, we have set up a National Budget Board. We were all looking at how great it is that we have independent experts, independent of the government, who will make their recommendations, possibly evaluate the state of public finances, or evaluate some key economic intentions, whether government or opposition. It is by not being part of the standard political struggle that they have a relatively long term of office or a relatively long term of office. You know that there are various institutions that propose individual members of the National Budget Board. The National Budget Board, and now I will note that it has been excluded from preparing and discussing this bill. If we were convinced that we needed the law, it would be understandable from a time point of view, but we are not convinced. On the contrary. On the one hand, we have all received the opinion of the National Budget Board, and on the other hand, we have also read the public opinion of the President, who certainly cannot be labeled as a person who is attacking a government's budgetary or other policy from opposition positions. And when I sum up, apart from the concerns, if the law had been adopted in this form at all, what it would have had in the next seven years, actually, the President of the National Budget Board says that the law is useless and that the interpretation given to us by the Minister here and to which Mr Dolejš also leaned, that without the amendment, it must either be cut significantly or significantly increase the revenue of the state budget by increasing taxes, is simply not correct. It's not right. And I cannot imagine that in these months the European Commission will be addressing the draft state budget of the Czech Republic for 2021, for example, whether the expenditure frameworks on 30 April were correct or not. I think that all Member States are more concerned than to look at the other countries, if their spending frameworks do not go beyond what they have. Moreover, we are not part of the euro area. If the ratification of the fiscalcompact was mandatory, and, as I recall, we voted against ratification, so we took advantage of the possibility and actually removed the key paragraphs of the fiscalcompact from ratification. Well, that's just for the record, why I don't think it's a happy law to discuss at this time. If we look at how many laws we have today, and how long and difficult the debate on this bill is, we could have saved ourselves all this. However, when I have seen the title, there is budgetary responsibility in the title of the law, so I have uploaded one amendment to the system, which is also budgetaryly responsible and concerns excise duty on tobacco. For those colleagues who are not members of the Committee on Budgets and who may not fully know the issue, just a brief summary of the legislative situation, and what happened and why I propose, I would say, a technical amendment, virtually. It's just a shift in the time of those measures that are already in place, tested and functioning. On the first March of this year, i.e. a month and a bit ago, the new excise duty rate on tobacco products came into effect, and the old-age products, let me put it simply, can be sold until 31 May. Under normal conditions that the law actually remembers, at the end of that two-month transitional period, the assembly, billing and return of all unsold products and then, under customs control, the disposal of such cigarettes is carried out. In other words, by the end of February, those vendors could have ordered cigarettes with an old stamp, and by the end of May, they could have sold them at an unexpensive price. By decision of the Government of 12 March, or after 12 March, in particular the conclusion of borders, on this specific market, up to 30 per cent of the sale of tobacco products, this means that the 30 per cent package pays taxes on the territory of the Czech Republic represents the sale of tobacco products in border areas, especially near the border with Germany and Austria, and those borders are closed. I'm not criticizing it, I'm just pointing out the fact. This means that 30% of the market fell by this. The sales of tobacco products themselves were not limited, respectively. they have been closed, or the sales are concentrated in large business centres, so especially small-scale traders have a problem, they also have a problem with the staff to get it, and it is estimated that there is a drop of about 15 percent on the domestic market. But you have to say, it's just not forbidden to sell there. In addition to the fact that when the cigarettes are not sold, they must be gathered, transported, surrendered, that is, the involvement of many employees, whether in public services or in private companies, and in these weeks and months we say that we want to reduce the risk of disease by minimising social or work contacts, if only a little bit possible, it seems unreasonable to me. In addition, the general rule that they pay in advance excise duty and those cigarettes that return to liquidation is that the State returns excise duty. So I think this year the surplus of unsold cigarettes will be much higher than the standard year. It's always a business risk. Someone estimates and sells, doesn't sell. Here, thanks to objective circumstances and the government's decision, the decline will, in our opinion, be much higher than in previous years. And the amendment is quite simple, it is in the system. The document has number 4837 and it actually shifts the deadline by one month. That's all. Of course, there may be an objection that there might be a larger lapse in excise duty collection, but that would be true if the border was opened. I don't think the border will open until June 30th. Of all the statements made by members of the Central Crisis Staff or government officials, it can be concluded that by 30. 6. the borders will not be open for free movement, because if they were, there is a risk that foreign buyers will buy it even with the reduced tax and the state would have had some cigarette outage, otherwise they would have bought it with the higher excise tax. In my opinion, the risk of this is absolutely zero. Therefore, the amendment, I could read it, actually pushing the time limits in the law by one month, maintaining all the best principles, all the best practices. There are about six points to the amendment, and it's actually simple. Where it's the second month, it's called the third. Where it's the fourth month, it's called the fifth, etc. So it's really just a one-month shift of all legal measures and damage relief, because the damage will eventually be shared both by the state and by the individual vendors and distributors. That's obvious. If we provide an extra month to sell old cigarettes, the damage could shrink on the side of the state, which means that it will return a smaller part of the excise duty already paid, but at the same time it should be said that the losses of those who sell or distribute those cigarettes and tobacco products could be reduced. I believe that this is not a political proposal that most of you will be prepared to support such a sensible amendment then in the final vote, and I will sign up for this amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u53	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate, please? No one's reporting, I'm done with the general debate. The Minister has an interest in the final words after the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been taking notes during your performances, and I'm taking the liberty of responding. Unfortunately, I must remind you that some previous speakers, I will not address anyone, have simply not read the law on budgetary responsibility rules, in particular paragraph 1. 4 in Section 10, where it is clearly stated under which conditions the Ministry may increase the total expenditure of the public institution sector. It is said that expenditure incurred by the public sector on the basis of the deterioration of the state's security situation associated with the government declared by emergency measures to increase its defence, on the basis of an emergency situation, a state of threat or a state of war; [[institutions]] total expenditure of the public institutions sector related to the removal of consequences, etc. etc. I've basically quoted it here in part in my opening words. I mean, if we could read it in detail here, but everyone, I suppose, you have the law ahead of you, it's said here that it's possible to do it for this period, actually in the forecasted year. Thus, the one-off measures associated with or not connected with the emergency situation, as well as the exit clause at the drop of the economy by at least 3% in one quarter, which is, can be applied always in the year when the emergency situation or economic downturn occurs, not in the coming years. That's the feud. [[12.50 hours]] And I very much appreciate the National Budget Board. It was the Ministry of Finance under the leadership of the ANO movement, which passed the Act on the rules of budgetary responsibility, and there, of course, the National Budgetary Council and the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts also passed. I listen very much to their words, we study them very much, and we give our opinions, but I do not always agree. And it is necessary to remind President Kalousek, he is not here, to remind that although there are renowned economists, certainly with great credit, I do not question that at all, and there is not a single lawyer. And this is a purely legal position. And the Treasury doesn't agree with him. That's why I came up with this novel. So this is not possible in the coming years, and this is the stumbling block of the current rule, because it strictly returns the balance to the medium-term budgetary objective. It is good for normal times, but in large economic fluctuations such as this one, it is completely inappropriate. I'll, uh... I'll keep Germany at the end. Now I will respond to the individual things that have been said. President Kalousek's statement that "history will count for you." I would say that the proposal we are now coming up with means that the structural balance or debt will not be as high as it was when he was the Minister of Finance. I have the tables here, so we can see where the structural balance was. Where she was. And it was also less than 4 percent that we propose, and that's what we're creating a sort of fiscal pillow for next year. As far as the comprehensive economic strategy is concerned, Mr Fiala, President of the SPD, I think it is actually a convergence programme that must be completed by the end of April. And, President Stanjur, you cannot ask the Minister of Finance to violate the law adopted by this House. If we don't do that, and we don't send those frameworks in so that they are in accordance with the Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility. If I'm past the Stability Pact, there's this law that this House has adopted. And actually, in other words, you said "break this law" to me. And I just can't do that. I'd like to say that... I'm watching as I was taking notes that... Let me give you an example, because President Kalousek trained me in quotes on the budget committee, he's not here, which is a little awkward for me, the fact that he's not here when I talk to him, but I have to say that we're the only country and that nobody does it and so on. So my colleagues were cutting more nights and looking for which countries... It's true that we belong on the forehead of the peloton, we're doing it as one of the first countries, but maybe it's Germany that you're always giving me as an example here. Although you say fairly, it is a strong economy, I think that is what Mr Munzar said, and I will tell you how they did it in Germany. They've already figured it out. Germany's national legislation generally envisages an escape clause from the federal constitutional rule on the structural balance, in case of natural disasters or other unusual events outside government control, which strongly affect the state's financial situation. Unlike Czech legislation, a transition to the medium-term budgetary objective is not necessary in Germany immediately after a major unusual event outside government control occurs. The German Escape Clauses therefore allow the structural deficit to be far deeper and to return to the rule required by the deficit level of 0,5 % of GDP gradually. However, the activation of the escape clause must be carried out by special law. And here comes the main thing: on 25 March of this year, the German Bundestag approved, it is the House press number 19/18108, approved this special law. And there you will see that the consolidation of German public finances will begin in 2023 and will last 20 years. Twenty years. We're gonna start in 2021, and we're gonna set it to the current level that it's gonna be in 2028. So please, it's not true what fell on the budget committee that we're the only country. And I'll keep going. So if I'm to sum up disciplined Germany, as I keep hearing here, disciplined, and I'm not really considering it now, because they're in the same problems, maybe worse than us, they need a special law that will allow fiscal rules to unfold for a long time, because the situation we're in and we're going to be in is completely unprecedented. And while - I repeat - the Czech government demands consolidation within a maximum of seven years starting in 2022, German within 20 years starting in 2023. So what? In Austria, the situation is similar to ours. The return to their medium-term budgetary objective will take place in the same way as our proposal. It's probably still in Denmark, but I don't have an analysis there. This is all my experts at the Treasury have found so far. So, you know, I don't want to repeat myself to the debates that we're having over every budget here, because the situation is really serious right now. It's not a political fight right now, it's this country's future. And those debates about how we're supposed to raise spending, lower taxes, and still have a balanced budget leave me completely calm after two and a quarter years, they don't lift my pressure or beat my heart like they did at the beginning. But it's serious now. It's not for this government right now. Now it's for every other government that comes after us. Because if the law doesn't pass, in other words, we're saying - or you're saying - I'm not voting because, unfortunately, at this point, I'm not an MP - you're saying to the pensioners, "It won't be on your pensions." You're telling the teachers we're not going to raise your salaries. You say: we will not invest in health care. You say: We will not invest and build infrastructure and other things. This is clearly what you tell people. On the contrary, we say: Let us create fiscal space, set up consolidation of public finances, and, on the contrary, support the economy. There's a lot of people here who remember it, who remember the cross-checking. And we just don't get over 150 billion in prosperity. That's all. This is the amendment to the law, which I am asking for, because I repeat, it is the future of the people of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u55	Thank you. President Stanjura has applied with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u56	I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, to have to say this, but that was the summit of demagogy. I want to reassure all seniors if the law doesn't pass, it won't do anything about your pensions! You don't have to worry. And all the other groups that the secretary here falsely named. We could say that about every law. I don't want to have a political debate, and then he says, "The evil opposition wants to take your money, you're gonna be in bad shape." None of this is true! The Minister appreciates the National Budget Board very much, but the National Budget Board does not understand it at all, because they are economists and not lawyers. I didn't encourage anyone to break the law. We have a dispute about the interpretation of the law. That's completely different than saying break the law. And the dispute clearly exists. The independent body, which, as the Minister of Finance said, pushed through this bill under the ANO movement, is true because our proposals for laws were successfully defended by the Social Democrats for several years when we wanted to go the way of the Constitutional Law, and we also had a simple majority to enforce it, but we wanted to come to greater political agreement on such an important bill - so on the basis of the law that passed the ANO movement, suddenly the uncomfortable position of the National Budget Board does not understand it, because they are not lawyers. Well, logically, they're not lawyers when it's a budget board. What would lawyers do there if they were to assess the economy? There's no logic to that. Do not frighten, Madam Secretary, our seniors, it has nothing to do with the amount of pensions this year or next year or in the following years. It's pure demagogy. This is an abuse of the situation for a political attack on those who rightly defend themselves against this bill. If you want to push him, let him into a normal legislative process. There's nothing wrong with that. We're gonna have a political fight, we're gonna make amendments, and somebody's gonna win. Most likely, as usual, the government majority. We understand that. [[13.00 hours]] So, Madam Secretary, why do you think that from that package of 24 laws that you've put forward so far as a government in a state of legislative emergency, there's only one thing here that you're opposed to. [[Nesroz.]] Because we want to, did we agree to prevent those social groups from having lower incomes? Who's suggesting you don't cut 150 billion? Well, we don't. So I guess you're thinking about it, thinking out loud, and you're not really feeling it. Well, I'm in favour that you're not dreaming. Nobody's suggesting anything like that, so don't use your favorite figure to disprove something no one else is suggesting. I didn't notice any such suggestion. Neither. So the performance didn't correspond to reality at all, it was completely outside the specific text of this law, and I, Madam Secretary, once again, I didn't urge you to break the law. I was just saying that Brussels is definitely not gonna deal with this until April 30th, I'm pretty sure. Absolutely sure. Or maybe they'll be as active in Brussels as they are in the Financial Administration in Ostrava, okay? That's what I have to say here. It is not normal for an honest tax payer who is in economic trouble to properly ask for a tax deferral and within eight days the Financial Administration has given him an asset seal! I was happy to read that the Financial Administration is already dealing with this, but Madam Secretary, tell the Director General to deal with it in personnel. You know what the worst part is? And that's consistent with the reputation of the Financial Administration. The man is afraid to mention his name because he is afraid of the consequences if it is known publicly who he is. We should all think about that. How is it possible that someone in our free society is afraid to mention their name when he is clearly being wronged? An honest tax payer asks for a deferment because he doesn't, which he does, thanks to the measures that have been introduced, and within eight days he has a seal on the property! What a zealous clerk! What a zealous Financial Administration! Those are the ones who undermine citizens' trust in the state!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u57	At this point, I note that they are signed up with priority rights by President Kalousek, President Jurečka, Minister Schillerová, however, according to the agreement of the MPs at this time, I am ending the morning meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We'll continue at this point at 14.30 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the afternoon block of the Chamber of Deputies. The current point, which is the Government Bill amending Act No.23/2017 Coll., on Rules of Budget Responsibility, as amended by Act No. 277/2019 Coll., was interrupted in the general debate. And before the lunch break, Members Miroslav Kalousek, Marian Jurečka and Minister of Justice Alena Schillerová were given priority rights. [[From the hall: Minister of Finance.]] Sorry, Treasury Secretary Alena Schillerová, sorry. Well, it's written by hand again, but you're right I didn't have to read it like that. I shall therefore request a performance with the priority right of Mr Miroslav Kalousek. He's not present. So another with priority rights gets the floor to the KDU-ČSL chair Marian Jurečka. Not either. So now here is Secretary Alena Schillerová. He's checking in? [[Newsletter: No.]] Oh, here's a note on the note that you've just been logged in with priority rights. [[Call off the microphone.]] Okay, okay. That's what I got here. Wait a minute. [[Call off the microphone.]] So the general debate is therefore closed, this note is no longer up to date. I am now opening up a detailed debate. Sorry. And in a detailed debate, Mr Stanjura is in order to prepare Mr Ferjenčík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u59	Thank you for the floor. In a detailed debate, I am reporting to the amendment, which is listed in the system as House Document No 4873. On the one hand, it is justified in the written proposal and, on the other hand, I have already justified it in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u60	Mr Ferjenčík will now speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In a detailed debate, I put forward a motion to reject this press. And I would like to mention in the context of the reasoning of this proposal that, unfortunately, the Minister of Finance mixed things up a little bit that she shouldn't have completely mixed together when she was talking about the 20 years in Germany. Those 20 years in Germany are about paying off those debts they're gonna do now because of the crisis. While the Minister compared it to seven years in the Czech Republic, that is seven years when we will create the debts according to your proposal. There's nothing in this proposal about how many years those debts will be repaid. It's just when they're going to form. In Germany, they say they'll be paying back 20 years. You're saying you've been creating them for seven years, and you're saying these two numbers are to be compared. That's total nonsense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u62	Mr Miroslav Kalousek will now speak with priority rights. However, at this point, this is the last application yet in a detailed debate. So, Mr. Ambassador, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u63	Thank you very much. I have a saved job because my colleague Ferjenčík has made a motion for rejection and I am joining him. And he made an argument about the legislative change in Germany. There's really talk about how long those debts are gonna go down. Madam Secretary here is offering us seven years to work hard on those debts. The Minister said that the National Budget Board is economists who do not understand the law. During my lunch break, I had the opportunity to find out that, of course, the National Budget Board has a legal opinion, it has legal analyses, and I would like to present my subjective opinion because I know all the members of the National Budget Board personally and I have learned a lot from them. And I thank them for their legal awareness and respect for the law is much greater than legal awareness and respect for the law of all members of the government with legal knowledge combined. And that I fully trust their position and completely distrust the Government's purposeful position. The Minister was right about the fact that we are not the only state, and I apologize to her when I said that because I did not have information about the Bundestag negotiations on 25 March, and what the Bundestag agreed in accordance with its budgetary board, that is absolutely different from what the government is presenting to us here. In addition, they are mixed, two laws are mixed together in the Ministry of Finance's argument. One is the EU provision on an average structural deficit of 0,75 and the other is the national legislation that we are discussing here. Madam Secretary argued for a moment with the European legislation, the moment with the national one, as she had just used it. Let me ask you a rhetorical question. Madam Secretary claims that if we do not approve this law, it is not possible to draw up a budget responsibly, it is not possible to conduct an economic policy here. Well, I dare to ask one rhetorical question. If we succeeded in doing what we have been trying for many years to make the Bill of Budgetary Responsibility a constitutional law, because that is how fiscal compact assumes that those countries will take over as constitutional law, then at this point in time, colleagues, you would not have the strength to adopt the constitutional law. So I'm like, "What would you do?" That life would go on! Of course, this year's deficit wouldn't be less than or greater, no matter what we vote for now. But that constitutional law would apply. Can I ask you if you try to behave as a fiscal compact assumes that the law is constitutional? And that we'd honor him as a constitutional, even though he didn't have a constitutional majority? It's not that complicated. And if you imagine that the law is constitutional and that you don't have a constitutional majority and that none of us can influence the decline in the state budget revenue for this year and next year and that we have to deal with it somehow, let's start acting like people and not like total demagogues. There's no reason to change this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u64	So Madam Secretary still has an interest in responding. I don't have another application yet. Madam Secretary Alena Schillerová has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u65	I didn't want to. Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Well, it's you, Mr. Ferjenčík, Mr. Chairman Kalousek. I forgive Mr Ferjenčík. He still has years of professional studies ahead of him. [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] But not you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Finance Exministr, I do not forgive you. Not you! You know well what the Stability Pact of the European Union says, that it says what a structural balance can look like. You know that we have a very strict fiscal rule in the Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility. So just don't confuse the audience here, the MPs present. It's your opinion who you trust or don't trust. But the government has executive responsibility. And the government has such an opinion, which is why it came to ask for an amendment to this law. Because I insist that without it, we would have to consolidate 150 billion. Either cuts or tax increases. And Germany. Although there is talk of debt redemption in Germany, it is through a low structural balance. In 20 years, we will also have the debt level back. Moreover, Germany is in worse shape, because before the crisis, their debt exceeded 60 percent of GDP. We were below 30% before the crisis started. It is also necessary to look at the fact that we are completely based on a different position. There. So maybe I-- you asked a rhetorical question here. Well, I don't know. You were here in the Chamber of Deputies, why this law was not supported by a constitutional majority. Of course he deserves it. We have a simple majority here, we come from the reality of what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u66	There. Mr Miroslav Kalousek has now taken an interest in the response and will be prepared with priority rights by Mr Ivan Bartoš. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u67	Thank you for your response, Madam Secretary. You just confirmed me in my position. I will allow you to be translated into Czech for my colleagues. Mr Ferjenčík is too young and inexperienced. Members of the National Budget Board are idiots who do not understand and have no legal knowledge. Mr Kalousek is a demagogist - and only you are a plane and you are right here. If you were able to be ashamed of yourself, which I don't think you are, because otherwise you wouldn't be a member of Babišův's government, but if you were able to be ashamed of yourself, I would recommend that you be ashamed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u68	Mr Ivan Bartoš will now speak with priority rights. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u69	Thank you. I would first try to respond to the fact that the comparison of the two time intervals here was first used by the Minister, so if Mr. Ferjenčík was wrong, now you yourself have also said why you're taking it out, as someone has put it on the table, you have started comparing twenty years to a bribe with seven years to actually opening up this opportunity to draw. That's the first time you've heard that. And the other thing. Madam Secretary, with all due respect - and it's not the first time today. I will tell you what one such difference is between the Chamber of Deputies and personally some members of the government. Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík, who has devoted ten years to political work in the Chamber of Deputies, has chosen people for his qualities. You didn't pass the Chamber of Deputies. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš has chosen you in your position as secretary. It was his choice. So I would ask you to drop some level of education or knowledge from Members or Senators here. People obviously appreciate the elected Members here for various reasons, which is why they have chosen them here. You were chosen for that government on the basis of the qualities that Prime Minister Babiš is assessing. I would like to ask you to be polite to the Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-003-004.u70	There. I will now look around the hall to see if anyone else is interested in speaking in a detailed debate. I see no one else, so I am ending the general debate. And now I'm asking if there's any interest in the final words. Madam Secretary is not interested. Madam rapporteur, are you interested? You're not interested. So I'm going to end the second reading of this proposal, and I'm going to interrupt the discussion of this proposal in order, because we're going to be discussing these proposals by the Ministry of Finance at the third reading. I'll take it downstairs. And because according to § 99 para. 7 of the Act on Rules of Procedure may follow in the short term the third reading of the bill immediately after reading the second, I am initiating the third reading of the Government Bill and I expect that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Jiří Dolejš, will follow with me from the table of rapporteurs the debate that I am opening, and I will ask the Member to sit down.
