ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u1	375. Request from the Police of the Czech Republic for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Ms Karla Maříková The mandate and immunity committee has discussed the request for consent and its resolution number 131 of 21 April 2020 has been delivered to you on the bench today. I ask the Chairman of the mandate and immunity committee of Mr Stanislav Grospič to report to us on the discussion of a request from the Police of the Czech Republic for consent to criminal prosecution. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to report to the Chamber of Deputies on the discussion of the request of the Regional Police Directorate of the Karlovy Vary Region, the Regional Department of Karlovy Vary, the Second Department of General Crime, on the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mrs Karla Maříková, the mandate and immunity committee. The request of the police authority was received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies on 5 March this year and was referred to the mandate and immunity committee on the same day. The request contains the definition of the acts which are concerned and their anticipated legal qualifications, and these facts are then included in the draft resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. At its 29th meeting on 10 March 2020, the police authority initiated the examination of the request. The rapporteur was designated by Mr Milan Feranec, and the committee interrupted, in order to request exemption from the confidentiality of law enforcement authorities, to ensure the participation of invited persons and to request statistical data on the number of persons prosecuted for expression of extremism under Sections 355 and 356 of the Criminal Code. The members of the Committee have had the opportunity to familiarise themselves with a copy of the criminal file on the premises of the secretariat of the Committee. Ms Karla Maříková's request for a police body was then delivered in a copy together with an invitation to the 30th meeting of the mandate and immunity committee, which took place on 21 April 2020. At this committee meeting, the statements of the Police Commissioner, Lieutenant Bachelor Jana Mašková, and the comments of Mrs Karla Maříková, who took part in the meeting with her legal representative, were heard. Supervisory prosecutor Master Pavel Dvořák did not accept the committee's invitation to participate personally in the case and the intended videoconferencing was not due to technical problems on the part of the supervisory prosecutor. After hearing the news report and examining all the relevant facts, the Committee adopted Resolution 131, which was distributed to you on the bench today. The mandate and immunity committee has a legal obligation to determine whether the conditions for prosecuting a Member are laid down in immune matters, thereby protecting Parliament as a whole and ensuring that its normal course of action is not disturbed by anything and no one. It therefore ensures that its members are not prevented in full from carrying out the mandate by expressing their political opinion, although not entirely considered. The resolution of the mandate and immunity committee number 132 will then be introduced to the rapporteur of the committee by Mr Milan Feranec. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u3	Well, thank you. And before I give the rapporteur the floor, I have two more excuses. So Mr Miloslav Janulík apologizes from 17 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons, and Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologises between 14.30 and 19.00 for health reasons. And now I ask the rapporteur of Mr Milan Feranc's mandate and immunity committee to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I introduce you to the discussion and the outcome of the mandate and immunity committee, I'm just a brief genesis of the case so we know what we're going to vote on. The Prime Minister has already said something. I'm just gonna repeat. This is a request from the Regional Police Directorate of the Karlovy Vary Region and on suspicion of the offence of defamation of a nation, race, ethnicity or other group of persons under the provisions of Section 355 of the Criminal Code and incitement to hatred against a group of persons or restriction of their rights and freedoms under the provisions of Section 356. This is because of the fact that Mrs 14 1. 2019 has added to its personal Facebook profile a contribution, as amended by: It is prohibited to import non-originating plant and animal species into the territory of the European Union. Muslim migrants are also not the original inhabitants of Europe, and, like invasive species, they mean the unexpected spread and gradual displacement of the indigenous peoples of Europe. They should therefore also be prohibited from entering the territory of the European Union. Karla Maříková, Member of the Chamber of Deputies. The case began to be dealt with on the basis of an announcement by a natural person. He was originally investigated by the Regional Directorate of the Police in Prague, subsequently due to local jurisdiction the case was handed over to the Regional Directorate of the Police of the Karlovy Vary Region. [[14.50 hours]] In conclusion, I will just say that part of the file is the so-called criminal analysis, where the assessment of the social hazard of this negotiation is, where I will just say a few conclusions of the criminal analysis, where the author, the police authority, compares the statements of the suspect with the statements of Adolf Hitler in the book of Mein Kampf on Jews, where he says they are parasites, aliens, and spreads as well as harmful germs. So, in the author's view, the ideas of Adolf Hitler and the Member are identical, and they are given high social harm because they are spreading their views as politicians and instigating the European Union to restrict the rights and freedoms of potential migrants. [[Nesroz.]] Its speech is all the more dangerous that the attitudes of the European Union's people to migration are unstable. So it's just a brief case genesis. The mandate and immune committee discussed this, as has already been said, and adopted the following resolution. It's resolution 132 - watch out, not 131 on your desk. We will then explain this in a detailed debate. Following discussion, after hearing the report and following the debate, the mandate and immune committee adopted Resolution 132 by which: I. Not recommended The Chamber of Deputies agree to prosecute Ms Karla Maříková, born 19 March 1981; II. Instructs the President of the mandate and immunity committee to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. This is the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee. In addition, I add that during this parliamentary term we have dealt with several cases of extradition, and so far I have - and this was the first case where everyone had a rare consensus, that is, a recommendation for non-release. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u5	I am launching a general debate in which two Members with priority rights are entered. The first is me and the second is Radim Fiala, so I'm gonna ask for a replacement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u6	Good afternoon. So I took over the chair. The general debate is open, and Vice-President Okamura is the first to sign up with priority. I'll ask the House for peace before I give him my word. Vice-President, please, it's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u7	[[He puts a sign on the speaker's desk with a text: I honor freedom of speech! I'm behind Karla! All members of the SPD have the same signs on their desks.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the police's request, which falls under the Minister of the Interior of Jan Hamáček of the ČSSD, for the extradition of our colleague, SPD Member Karla Maříková, for her opinion, expressing her opposition to the illegal migration and Islamisation of Europe, is a criminalization of the free opinion, however critical the view of migration and Islamisation is opposed by many of you and support it. The sign of all totalitarianism is the end of freedom to express its views. Members of the SPD movement stand united behind our colleague Karla Maříková and we will not support her extradition. I quote exactly what Karla Maříková wrote and what she should be prosecuted for and tried in today's Czech Republic. I quote: "It is prohibited to import invasive non-originating species of plants and animals into the territory of the European Union. Muslim migrants are also not the original inhabitants of Europe, and, like invasive species, they mean the unexpected spread and gradual displacement of the indigenous peoples of Europe. They should therefore also be prohibited from entering the territory of the European Union.' I think it is quite scandalous that the police and prosecutors want to judge Mrs Karla Maříková for this statement. This is not just about migrants and Islam, it is about freedom that distinguishes totalitarianism from democracy. Moreover, in the case of Karla Maříková, it was undoubtedly an exaggeration, recalling that the European Union forbids the import of invasive plant species, and in her view the Union should similarly oppose the invasion of economic illegal migrants. The truth is that both can be destructive to the system. That's a total fact. Moreover, in the case of Muslim invasions, it is fully documented by historical facts. The empire destroyed by the Muslim invasion, Egypt or the Byzantine Empire, speaks for itself. At the same time, I thank all citizens, but also those fellow Members and politicians who, despite the opposite political views, supported our Karla Maříková and the right to express their views freely. This does not mean, unfortunately, that we have democracy here, but it means for sure that we have Democrats here in the House, and that is a good basis for us to reach out to one true democracy and freedom. As for the vote on the extradition of our Member, Karla Maříková, we are calm. You can't lose in this artificially created case. The Minister of the Interior and Chairman of the ČSSD Jan Hamáček already lost, who does not know how and does not want to publicly apply to Karla Maříková's side and freedom of speech. I do not think that the accusations brought would stand up in court, not so much because there would be no judges who would not want to close their minds, rather the contrary, but condemning the SPD officer for a clearly true opinion would only harm the judiciary and the pro-migration activists and the SPD would strengthen that. Mr. Home Secretary Hamáček clearly feels genuinely wronged when we make him responsible for police charges and claims he does not run the police. However, it cannot be seen that he and his like strengthen witch hunts and hunts against those who oppose the right pro-migration and Brussels opinion. This is evidenced, among other things, by the political abuse of the Ministry of the Interior for the political struggle, which is evidence of attempts to turn the SPD into an extremist party in the Ministry of the Interior reports. The public, police and justice see this very clear attempt to criminalize the SPD. The vast majority of decent policemen are not only rooting for us, but I know a lot of us are voting. Thank them for that. Unfortunately, there is always a part that will succumb to the unmistakable pressure from the Minister's office. That's exactly how dictatorship begins. That's exactly how fascism started. Opinion opponents are first mocked, then dehonested, and when they lose sympathy, they are criminalized and ultimately uncomfortable opposition is eliminated. This is a proven recipe that part of politicians, justice and the media started to apply a few years ago for the applause of a part of the public without people realizing that it will never end with the destruction of the omourists. There's always an enemy for the chosen elites. And as history shows, the victims and those who used to lock them up will eventually meet in prison. That is why it is vital for the SPD that we continue to fight for freedom and democracy despite the self-appointed elites. Ladies and gentlemen, what I wanted to say is that this is not about one SPD member at all, but it is about principle. We have the right to express our opinion freely, don't we? We have the right to disagree with migration and Islamization, don't we? And that "we" doesn't mean SPD, it means any of us in this country. I and the entire SPD believe that we have the right to free speech and must protect it. And for the SPD, I promise you that we will fight for freedom and democracy in the Czech Republic until our last breath. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u8	Thank you. Vice-President Fiala has been given priority rights, but he has withdrawn it in order to prefer Mrs Maříková, but he has previously applied with a factual remark by Mr Birke, so I will give him the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u9	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I won't keep you long. I just want to say that - I'm sorry, but I have a feeling that social democracy at every last moment of the show - I think we're responsible for everything here. If we don't exist, you have to practically invent us to pin everything on us. So let me draw your attention, President Okamura through the President, like your SPD, so I will always do everything I can to keep you from throwing anything at us, and the President of the Hamáček. Thank you. Because if President Hamáček responds to that, as you say and challenge him, you will immediately begin the crossroads that the Minister is directing the police. [[Messenger. Belobrádek shows the speaker a sign left by the men. Okamura.]] And of course you can't do that. Thank you. Or virtually. like this: he can't, of course. I'm sorry, I was upset by my colleague Bělobrádek. I don't know why he's showing me this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u10	Thank you and we'll continue. Before I give the floor to the lady of the house, I will introduce the House to the pardons. Mr Lipavský apologizes today from 16.30 to the end of the day for working reasons, and Mr Třešňák apologises from 15 to 19 hours for working reasons. Now, therefore, Mrs Maříková, who is enrolled in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come before you today because the police in Karlovy Vary are asking my extradition to prosecute for a statement in the framework of the enforcement of our electoral programme, which has been committed before me in a broader context by other persons and among them also by moral authorities. However, no criminal proceedings have ever been initiated against any of them, but according to the prosecutor and the police, I should have committed a crime, even intentionally. But how could I have committed a crime, even with the intention that none of the authors had committed it before me. Like the authors before me, I only wanted to draw attention to the paradoxes and nonsense that come from the European Union. And also its supporters will give me the truth that the decrees and regulations that come are not always in line with their thinking. Let's take a look at this... [[There's noise in the room. Mrs Maríková turns to the President.]] Can I ask you, Mr President, to keep the House down a bit, or do I not know if I should scream here?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u12	Yes, I'll oblige. I'm gonna ask you to calm down. You're a tiny woman, so we must be extremely helpful. So once again, I ask you to remain calm so that Mrs Karla Maříková can express herself. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u13	Thank you. Let us take a look at such a weaponized directive, for which it was created across the political spectrum of the amendment to the Arms Management Act, which should at least partially circumvent this directive. However, after the Court of Justice of the European Union rejected a Czech action against a directive restricting the possession of arms, you defended and signed this amendment across the political spectrum. This already proves that the European Union's decrees and regulations are often opposed to the sovereignty of the Member States. I also liked the original idea, which was based on free movement and a market that solves problems in a common way, and this solution will be much easier. However, this idea is out of control. The European Union has become rigid, producing a number of senseless regulations and restrictions. He treats Member States authoritarianly and blackmails them - you only get money if you listen. However, each country should determine its own course. Some see it as a solution to finding the original values. I see as a solution to the speech that should be decided by the people themselves and remain a member of the European Economic Area in order to maintain free trade with Union states and return to sovereignty, because a representative form of government cannot function in a supranational European superstate. And then there are those who are satisfied with how the current European Union works. In my contribution, I did not call for violence or insult anyone. I just paused over one paradox that came back from the European Union. You can certainly criticize me, as well as the authors before me, that I have taken the liberty of pauseing myself over a decree concerning animals and plants, and pointing out the paradox of the European Union's immigration policy, as part of society is historically sensitive to comparisons with flora and fauna. And I could quote politicians and municipal politicians and officials here, who, at all levels across the political spectrum, have expressed themselves more strongly on migration and have used specific synonyms when comparing in the context of the criticism of migration policy, when the group of inhabitants have called the fairy tales of Smolíček or slugs, who will stop at nothing and there is no obstacle to them, no distance or location from which we are moving. He's able to come up on his own, by car, by boat, by train, he's just able to get to us through every possible route. In this case, however, it was only about opening up a debate on the European Union's migration policy. None of these statements were regarded as extremist, nor were any of the parliamentary parties whose members are the authors of these quotes. I'm not going to name any politics here, but I'm showing you a double standard that's starting to measure in our state. It was clear from my contribution that I had no intention of insulting or defaming anyone, so I did not use any synonyms to specifically compare someone with something that might possibly mean something ugly to someone, but I suspended myself as part of the enforcement of the electoral program for which I was elected to the Chamber of Deputies over two paradoxes. However, I cannot, for the thinking of others, and that is what seems dangerous to me, that anyone today even thinks of comparing historical milestones with current statements and seeing what is not there. The authors before me, who expressed themselves in a much broader context, as I said, were not prosecuted, none of them were even in the summary situational reports of the Ministry of the Interior. In this context, I asked the Minister of the Interior in the framework of written interpelations about the criteria for selecting the persons mentioned in these reports. And you know what I was told? That in the summary situational reports of the Ministry of the Interior, the subjects and phenomena that fill the definitional signs of extremism and predicate hatred are mentioned, and the public is generally informed about hate speech of public acquaintances or other medialized cases associated with extremism or prejudiced hatred. The Ministry of the Interior is playing prosecutor and judge here, since bringing anyone who has not been found guilty into these reports is above his competence and in advance both the subject and the person is condemned. The mediation that the Home Secretary mentioned, it was only the Ministry of the Interior that secured my case. Until then, the journalist had no interest in my case, and the case was only in the preparatory proceedings. I wonder what kind of light it would shed on the Home Office and on his quarterly report on extremism if the case were postponed. So was this a guide on how the case is to evolve, or was the Ministry of the Interior going to have more detailed information on how it was going to develop, three quarters of a year in advance? I see the very introduction of my person in these reports as a guide to law enforcement authorities, and I see this in all cases where the Ministry of the Interior lists in its reports persons whose cases are only in the preparatory proceedings and have not been found guilty. This procedure is misleading. It may affect the course of criminal proceedings where law enforcement authorities may be affected or feel under pressure and the disclosure itself may harm the person concerned in a social and personal level. By doing so, the Ministry of the Interior takes the role of prosecutor and judge, which is beyond his competence, and denies that the presumption of innocence still applies in this state, because putting anyone who has not been found guilty in these reports causes him to be viewed as guilty in advance. The Home Office regularly reports that the SPD is an extremist party. We are often called opponents fascists and Nazis. And you know what the worst part is? That it's people who show themselves that way. I will read to you here one such hateful message that has arrived to me through the mediation that the Ministry of Interior has provided for my case, and I will explain to you immediately why I read it here: What kind of inhuman and unchristian monster can compare human beings to weeds and animals? Even the most pathetic migrant is worth a thousand times more than you and your whole Pitomiův bunch. Shame on you, you crazy beast! You're gonna fry in Hell's Kill with Mengel. You know, what you have just heard is the result of a policy that wants to punish another opinion, and it is only the one that is right for it, and it is the one that agrees with the European Union. The policies that divide society into those who do not agree with the European Union's policy are brazenly labeled and hunted for them, and those who agree and think that only their opinion is correct and no other can be accepted. The only thing I can say about this message about Christianity is that it is already written in the Bible - and I will now quote: "Beasts like humans have the same lot, they die the same way, they breathe the same way. What's a man in front of an animal? They're coming to one place." Does this quote strike you as defamation when it compares animals and humans? I could read you here many other quotes that compare people and animals, such as the talmud or the Koran, from books that are very important to certain groups of people around the world and are not forbidden. And there's no talk of those sayings that they're defaming or spreading hate. [[15.10 hours]] By limiting the debate by censorship and combating uncomfortable opinions, the real hatred arises and divides society. If the discussion is limited, it will have the opposite effect, namely that the currents of opinion in society will escalate. It would be naive to think that by persecution you would close parts of society's mouth. The Constitutional Court itself has repeatedly stressed that, given the importance of freedom of expression of Article 17 (1) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, any opinion, opinion or criticism is, in principle, admissible. The restriction of freedom of expression is therefore an exception which must be interpreted restrictively and can only be justified by qualified circumstances. As far as possible, the richness of the public debate should be regulated only to the extent strictly necessary by the State, as is apparent from Article 17 (4) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. At the same time, the State accepts that its power of intervention in freedom of speech should come subsidiarityally, that is, only if the damage cannot be corrected otherwise. Damage can be corrected by other means than State intervention, such as using options to oppose controversial and misleading opinions. This often minimizes the harmful effect of the disputed statements much more effectively than the way the prosecution is doing, as the state power tries in my case. Many here criticize China, which allegedly filters and deletes websites on the Internet or expressions questioning the regime, and people there are said to be closed for speeches on the Internet. But we're doing the exact same thing. Step by step, we are moving towards totalitarian direction by prosecuting people on the Internet for dissenting speeches on the European Union's migration policy. And we call it prejudiced hatred. It is like restricting human rights by totalitarian regimes. It starts slowly and then it tightens the screws. No one is likely to fight for freedom of pornography in networks that use children or call for violence or attacks. Censorship, however, also concerns opinions that are simply disliked. The erasing and prosecution of opinions must then be supported, preferably by a special law or an example, like mine. It is censorship, a restriction of debate, political correctness that stimulates aggression in people. The more muzzles people will put on, the more opinions they will grab and divide in society. The SPD has entered the elections to the Chamber of Deputies with anti-migration policy and the programme in which this stands. Our movement calls for fundamental steps to ensure the security of our country and its citizens. Above all, we reject the forced reception of illegal immigrants and reject the Islamisation of our country under the pretext of multiculturalism. We will not allow the emergence of a fifth column of radical Muslims in the Czech Republic. Sharia law and Islamic jihad are a threat to our freedom and security. Their promotion and dissemination will be outlawed, and the infringement will be clearly punished. - If you read our program, there's a question about whether we're gonna start punishing politicians for promoting the program they've been running for, elected for, and not banned. Are we going back to the 1950's when uncomfortable political views became the cause of the trials? It was the persecution that became one of the official forms of governance commonly used by all state institutions. The police want to punish me for pursuing a policy that wants us to maintain the Christian values and traditions that you and I and our ancestors grew up on. For refusing to follow in the footsteps of countries in which the security of their own citizens is threatened as a result of the European Union's migration policy. We used to be called extremists. Extremism is out of the mainstream, but illegal migrants don't want 80 percent of the population here. I'm asking, who's the extremist? According to this, it is the 20% that supports the European Union's migration policy. Is it therefore extremist that citizens perceive illegal migrants as a significant security threat on the basis of what is happening in the states that have adopted asylum seekers in the framework of the implementation of migration quotas? I have seen this whole case from the very beginning as politicised, on the basis of the fact that the initiative was given by politicians from my electoral region. He was not even able to have a public debate as it should be in a democratic society, and he is not a person who would be affected as a group concerned. Although the case was in the preparatory procedure and it was not clear which direction it was going to develop, the Ministry of Interior presented me in its quarterly report on extremism and made me an extremist in advance. The very introduction in these reports gives me the impression as a guide to how the case is to evolve, with the sole aim - to create a very dangerous precedent, according to which it will be possible to judge other cases and maybe one day you too. We live in a time of correctness where every word is hateful. Even the one that's based on facts. But it is not appropriate for a correct society, so it needs to be silenced and destroyed. When you vote today, think about the fact that one day your statement or opinion may become uncomfortable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u14	Now with priority rights... I also have one point of fact. So Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal and with priority rights will prepare Radim Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Maybe I'll disappoint those who hoped it would be quick. I was hoping, too. However, when I see 13 unilaterally registered, I think that one-sided discussion is pointless. To break it a little, I will therefore respond primarily to Mr President through him. I don't think so, and that's my opinion that the reason for the fall of the old empires was the influx of new people. I think that those reasons were mostly more economic, technological, the question of self-locking and stopping innovation or the political crisis within the empire. But that's my opinion. And opinions aren't true or false. Opinions can be stupid, bad, good, safe or dangerous. Facts can be true or false. And the fact is, if there's some kind of process that ends in genocide, usually one of the first stages is the dehumanization of an opponent. And that, I think, is the problem that we're partly discussing here. He has also spoken elsewhere, which is why I think that the statement was not quite nice, I would say, and really correct and appropriate, i.e. problematic, as is often said today, but, of course, as I said, we have every right to an opinion here. I would therefore like to point out that if 20 percent is already extremism, we are all here extremists in the House, with the exception of the ANO movement. And that's not how I want to look at extremism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u16	I will now request a performance with priority rights, the chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u17	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, only a brief response to the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal. Mr Vice-President, I fully respect your opinion, and I wish you not to be arrested for it once. Seriously, seriously. Karla's said a lot, but I think it's very important to name the whole thing and figure out what it is. In my opinion - and I am sorry that there is no Home Secretary Hamáček, who should certainly hear it - Karla Maříková is just a piece of the whole thing that seems to be flying around us. Today's meeting and the case of my colleague Karla Maříková deserves special attention. Above all, it must be noted that our colleague's case has a broader context which, as a result, affects everyone who wants to enter politics in our country. Anyone who wants to have a political opinion, and without exaggeration, I will say, colleagues, anyone who sits in this House and sometimes has the desire to express a political opinion or represent the political views of their constituents even if it is contrary to the unwritten but already enforced official political line, which is dictated from Brussels. Our society, our political culture and our constitutional and legal order are rightly proud of the protection of freedom, including civil freedom, but also of political opinion. I must stress that our movement is based on deep respect for democratic principles and promotes their deepening towards the direct and systemic decision-making of citizens. We call it direct democracy. And I will once again underline the word to the citizens' systemic decision-making, because at the same time, we clearly reject the speeches of anarchy. [[15.20 hours]] I also stress that in our political agenda for direct democracy, it is bounded by respect for judicial power and respect for the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. I stress this for those who are haunted by the dictation of the majority over the minority, in which the minority of the majority decision will lose its rights. Anyone who reads the program of our movement will find neither anti-Semitism nor a tendency to totalitarian grasp of power in it, on the contrary. Yet, for several years, an intensive campaign has been under way to portray our movement as a fascist, totalitarian, threatening democracy, racist, etc. What's the reason? The reason is simple. Our movement is really threatening, but not democracy or freedom, but the interests of powerful elites who are playing with this country and who are sucking money out of this country. These elites are promoting the so-called European integration into the current European Union, which, in our view, represents a fundamental threat to the existence of the Czech Republic and our nation and which represents a fundamental threat to freedom and democracy. Anyone who saw the elites of the European Union bowing to the discovery of an overlife statue of Karel Marx had to understand what the ideal basis of this empire was. Global elites are also promoting the global economy, which means losing the country's basic capabilities, i.e. provide food, produce final products, medicines, or be sure that in a few years we will have enough affordable energy. We also advocate a consistent defence of our country's political sovereignty. We want this country to be the heritage of our nation and not the space that is decided elsewhere and where people from the world are redistributed on the basis of the illusionary right to immigrate. We are pushing this country to decide who will be its citizen and who will live here. We reject multiculture, positive discrimination against minorities, we reject attacking the fundamental values of this society, such as family, such as country, which, of course, are the things that modern-day admirers of Karel Marx must frown on. So the problem with our movement is that it has really powerful opponents. We are leading and leading a consistent political struggle with these opponents because we care about the future of the Czech Republic. In our program, we say patriotism, and we are not afraid to promote it. We have not accepted the reality of robbing this country and the gradual demise of this country. There is a famous French novel that recently became a bestseller. The theme of this novel is submission. We are enjoying this novel and comforting ourselves by not being so terrible at the end, and even for those who give in zealously, it will be beneficial. At the end of the plan of elites and multinational corporations there is nothing but absolutisation of profit and absolute control of power. Honestly, I don't know what's convenient about that. A part of the coming control of power is also showing reality through so-called. a crooked mirror, when a citizen is meant to perceive the world around him, not by reality, but by the way the mighty want it. Part of this crooked mirror is the hardworking of the image of uncomfortable politicians, political parties and movements. This strategy includes, of course, the case of a colleague of Mrs Karla Maříková. Her case is part of the intent through the crooked mirror to present our movement to citizens. Patriotic movements throughout Europe are growing and growing to appall the elites of the European Union. They are gaining and maintaining voter support, and citizens are beginning to realize that it does not have to be true that, with the European Union as well as with the Soviet Union, it has to be forever. That is why it is getting tougher, and that is why the political struggle against patriots is starting to use force. As soon as the manipulation of democracy fails, once the dirt and media manipulation and public media have failed, the Ministry of the Interior is now starting. And I'm sorry the Home Secretary Jan Hamáček isn't here. The Ministry of the Interior, under the leadership of the Minister, is publishing reports on extremism and, of course, our movement must appear in these reports. It's used all the locks that are appropriate. It is strange that other parts of the political spectrum are forgotten. In this country, you can threaten the president, you can announce that you will take the gun and you will shoot. You can slit people verbally. You can question constitutional order and tear the Constitution apart. You can lie, you can insult, you can do anything - if you're against patriotism. How is it that none of the security forces is concerned with the activities of political non-profits from Mr Soros' group and others, which are actually creating parallel structures in the state administration today? And so is the Home Office. They have a direct impact on the state administration and a fundamental influence on public media. That's probably why. Leaving them alone is part of what I've been talking about as permission. But back to my colleague Karla Maříková. Her case has already gotten into the report on extremism, regardless of the fact that no one decided on her guilt or innocence. This is a meeting, Minister of the Interior, which resembles a model of investigation, i.e. guilty. It's really a Soviet model. The definition of alleged illegal activity, which is called prejudiced hatred, is crucial in the case of my colleague Maříková and in the activities of the Ministry of the Interior. I've been through this very carefully and I've wondered if our legal order knows this term for the purposes of prosecution and investigation of people. Mr. Home Secretary, our laws don't know anything about this. This is your crime that you designed to criminalize and use the Ministry of the Interior to criminalize political opponents and political parties. Prejudice hatred is the same design as historically non-German activity or crime against peace. No one knew exactly what was going on, but everyone could be prosecuted and convicted. Maybe in time someone looks back and makes a black comedy about how people talk to each other, why they lost their job or why they found themselves at the police or in prison, and there's a line: Why I'm here, I don't know, but I've been convicted of preconceived hatred. Minister, hatred is a part of life. Unfortunately, it's emotional, but it's not a crime. In our culture against hatred, the police do not intervene, but we fight hate with another kind of emotion, and that is love. Patriotism is not based on hate, but on the love of the country. We don't want migrants here because we hate them. We don't want them here because we love this country. We owe it to the ancestors who built it, and we are responsible in front of our children and grandchildren to hand it over to them. Back to my colleague Karla Maříková's case. Most of you here in the House don't understand why the police dealt with this case. I've already said that it's first of all to show the crooked image of the SPD to citizens. And secondly, and this needs to be pointed out now, the point is to intimidate, yes, to intimidate anyone who would like to take a closer look at the promotion of patriotic politics, who would only consider the possibility of resisting approval. The Ministry of the Interior and the Minister may prosecute you at any time as part of the prosecution of prejudiced hatred, a criminal act that we have invented ourselves. If we accept this practice, you can be sure, colleagues and colleagues, that no one will be sure of anything. Today, the elites of the European Union are working to strengthen the competences of the criminal authorities of the European Union. If we allow it, in some time, the Home Secretary will be escorting us out of the House with the prosecutor of the European Union. Dear colleagues, I've been in politics for a long time. I know cases of crime committed by members of various political parties. They've been stealing and committing more serious crimes. Unfortunately, in our opinion, the most serious cases, where the political-trade mafia, such as for example, clearly played a role. the case of OKD, remain outstanding and unpunished. In the mirror of this practice and this experience, I consider attempts to permanently criminalize the entire political party in the Ministry of the Interior's reports - and I have chosen very diplomatic words to keep me from being arrested for this. [[15.30 hours]] We have two options today, either to state that the request for the extradition of my colleague Karla Maříková is a nonsensical design and prejudiced hatred is not a criminal offence, and then we cannot give up our colleague Karla Maříková, or we will accept these dangerous structures from the Home Office workshop and we will release my colleague Maříková. Of course, the SPD MP will vote against the release of our colleague Karla Maříková. However, I would like to point out that if we legitimately reject the absurd accusations of Karla Maříková, we should logically ask for political responsibility from the Minister of the Interior and call for him to resign. And I, Mr. Home Secretary Jan Hamáček, hereby call you to resign. [[Inconvenient votes from ČSSD Members.]] It works out of fear for someone else's sake because they cowardly succumbed. We should also ask logically what is true about the information that the high police officers who leave the service tell the media that criminal prosecutions can be ordered in this country. As far as this practice is concerned, colleagues and colleagues, it concerns each of us. And I urge you to discuss the effectiveness of the work of the Ministry of Interior and Security, to check whether there is a need for special-purpose information and documentation for the political processes being designed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u18	I now have three factual points, all for the ČSSD club, so that Mr Ondřej Veselý will be the first to speak, Mr Jan Birke will be prepared, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will be the third to prepare for the third, and then Mr Radek Koten in the current debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be more brief than two minutes. Mr Fialo, through Mr President, we do not have a personal dispute, but if you want the Interior Minister to enter into criminal prosecution in a democratic country, you should withdraw from all positions in democratic institutions, because this is an absolutely inadmissible matter. As soon as he does, he should step down. If you want to introduce such order, tell everyone: when we have the Ministry of the Interior, we'll take care of it, the Minister will see to it how the prosecution takes place. That's what you're telling us!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u20	Next up, Mr. Jan Birke. Please, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u21	Thank you so much for the floor, Mr President. I finally figured out why I should put it off. [[a sign left by a man on the speaker's counter. Okamura]] I get it. Two comments by you on President Fial. We have humanly very good relationships. Most of the time, something is being done and someone who's here is being asked to resign. I'm gonna ask you for a moment when you meet him, ask him to resign, as they say, in the eyes, and I'd ask too much, because it's not fair to challenge someone who's just somewhere else at this point. That's the first thing. Second thing. I have already said in my first contribution that if the Minister of the Interior actually intervened in these processes, it would, in my opinion, and I think that, in your opinion, we can agree on that, it would not be absolutely correct. I just want to say one more little thing. We all have some to follow up on what was here very, let us say, emotionally and very well presented by a fellow Member, who, of course, this point, Mrs Maříková, concerns experience. You are not alone, Madame, by your means, Mr President, who receives similar e-mails that we need to shoot the whole family and hang us up to some eighteenth knee. We're all going through this. Let's face it. I don't think there's anyone in the House who doesn't get a similar e-mail for a whole political career. With all due respect, Madame, by your means, Mr President, there is nothing special about this. It's not. I'm not going to say if it's a heifer from one or another political fellows, it's just part of a very disgusting, I'm saying disgusting, and I agree with you political struggle, because many times it fits into families, family members, and that's the worst part. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u22	Now two factual points. Mrs Karla Maříková will prepare Radim Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would have responded to my previous speaker, Mr Birke. You know, I didn't quote it here to feel sorry for myself, but I just wanted to show you that we're called extremists and fascists, but that's what they call us as fascists. The MP doesn't listen to me, and he doesn't really care, so I quit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u24	Radim Fiala will now make a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u25	Thank you for your word. I want to make it clear. I certainly didn't mean it like my social democracy colleagues say. It is true that Karla Maříková is getting into the report on extremism without even being guilty, and she is getting there at the Ministry of the Interior. That means just so you know that we filed two criminal charges, how it is possible that this information leaked from the living file to the report on the extremism of the Ministry of the Interior, when no one convicted her, it was in the preliminary proceedings, it was simply at a time when she was not convicted. That means Karla Maříková was innocent at the time, but she was already part of the report on the extremism of the Ministry of the Interior. She's innocent, of course, to this day. So that's one thing. And, of course, the report on extremism, my fellow Members, and that is nothing that would be against social democracy, or I do not know if it is against social democracy, the Ministry of the Interior and the minister who runs it are responsible for me and for all citizens for the operation of the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u26	Mr Radek Koten will now appear and Mr Jiří Kohoutek will be prepared. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u27	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. There's a lot going on here. I think that the view on this prosecution is absolutely uniform with regard to the SPD, and I think that other Members also perceive that this prosecution is rather political. It is such a declaration of the only correct view that people who oppose migration must be prosecuted for this view. As regards the summary report by the Ministry of Interior on extremism in the Czech Republic, the introduction of Karla Maříková into this report was completely illegal. Preparatory proceedings, that means not prosecution, but preparatory proceedings are not public by law. How is it possible that the non-public file leaked information into a summary report produced at the Ministry of the Interior? The only thing I can think of is that this information has been completely purposefully abused for the destruction of our colleague, Mrs Karla Maříková, and the mention in the report by the Ministry of the Interior actually directly accuses her, namely. I've been studying the Home Office's reports a few years back, never, not to mention, never mentioned a full name, but there was always only a monogram, two letters with a dot. This is an unprecedented violation of all possible laws of the Czech Republic by the Ministry of the Interior and by investigating police officers who conducted this preparatory procedure. We submitted two suggestions, two prosecutions, one at the General Inspection of the Security Corps, to investigate how this information was leaked to the Ministry of the Interior. So far, we have only received answers to one announcement, i.e. from the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps, where it is stated that this is actually possible. However, there is not a single paragraph in the law that would allow this. So today I wrote another letter to the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps, where I ask, under which law, under which paragraph and under which letter this information from the non-public preparatory procedure was communicated to the Ministry of the Interior and this was stated in this summary report on extremism. [[15.40 hours]] I'm not even going to pause over what has been said here from other political parties that are part of the so-called demo block, because the call to murder the president, to bleed him out and use him on soap is really a very serious speech. And it makes me feel the connotations that lead to the use of human bodies in Nazi concentration camps. And this unnamed party politician - you'll all be able to find it online - so his prosecution has been stopped and it's supposed to be a misdemeanor. So here I see a very interesting selective application of law. [[Very strongly:]] And according to Mr. Zeman's Attorney General, it's boyhood! And so here we are prosecuting our colleague Karla Maříková for a statement that is basically almost identical to two articles and headlines on the Internet Periodical Reflex, which was written by Jiří X in 2015 and 2017. He's Doležal. So how is it that this author of the article, who basically wrote the same thing directly into the headline, is not prosecuted? I'm asking you, is it normal that we prosecute someone for this statement, publish it here in the House, and the other walks around the world without any problems, no prosecutions against him? I don't know. Each of you, evaluate it in your own way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u28	Now I have two factual points. Mr Pavel Plzák will be the first to speak and the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal will be prepared. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u29	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to say to Karla that you are not alone in the fact that her movement and she may specifically be described as fascists. Or I'm telling you, you're not alone. If I read today's statement by my colleague Gazdík at a press conference that said that the independence and so on the Communist-Populist-Fascist coalition voting machine is simply outnumbered, then the communists are coming out to me there, the populists are usually referred to as the SPD movement. [[pointing to the left]] Well, the fascists, that's probably up to us. And I would like to call on my colleague Gazdík to tell us what I'm acting like a fascist. And if he doesn't explain it to me, I'm asking an apology from him. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u30	Now, on the point of fact, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal and Mr. Jiří Kohoutek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u31	Hello. It's just really about some of the stuff that's flying around here. The fact that somebody puts on Facebook status is where people watch him, so like the fact that it turns up somewhere, it's not even a purposeful attempt at defamation, or any leak from the file. That's just public information that can be used somewhere else. That's just one. Secondly, I would like to point out that fascists fly here normally. Today, the fascist was called Minister Zaorálek. So, like the discussion, it's generally... [[An outrage in the hall. She called him a Nazi.]] For a Nazi. Sorry, sorry. The discussion is generally as heated and in Internet culture or in general there is such a rule and it is called Godwinův's Law that sooner or later there will be an ad hitlerum argument in each discussion. And there's a sequel that says that by the time he shows up, all reasonable discussions are over and there's no point in going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u32	He will now make a point of fact, I have only one application, Mr Antonín Staněk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please. [[A clerk who brought the signature file to Secretary Schiller blocked the way to the rhetorical site.]] Please release the Member. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am truly appalled today. With all due respect, and we talked about it with Mrs. Černochová, so I don't mean it at the moment, but this morning we started using the concepts of fascist, calling ourselves a fascist. Now, I'm reading on my faceboards, even though my colleague here is explaining to me what kind of Bolsheviks we are, commies, motherfuckers -- pardon me for that word -- just read it, just because we're expressing some opinion. Friends, if you think you can do something good by escalating these terms, I'm sure you can't. Please, I beg you, let us check our language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u34	Mr Jiří Kohoutek will now appear in the general debate and Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u35	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, after a few decades, we are finally working our way to the truly Orwellian world, following the model of Western Europe. The fact that a big brother watches us every step of the way through telecommunications, the Internet, but also cameras all over the country is already a cruel reality. And now that the big brother is watching us, he's also watching and controlling what we say, what we think, and he's punishing for the opinions that come out of line. What is wrong with saying that when we ban the import of invasive plants into Europe, we should also think about banning the import of invasive migrants in Europe and the state of democracy of hostile cultures? It is the holy truth and the right of every country to defend its culture. After all, just as Muslim countries defend it, for example, as we wish them to maintain their culture and their freedom to decide who they will accept, how tolerant they will be of Christianity or democratic ideas, and so do we ourselves. The prosecution of Karla Maříková would not only be a gigantic disgrace for Czech democracy, but also a real confirmation of the SPD's programme and ideas, which, first of all, calls for us to finally promote a real democracy in the Czech Republic, which has already been asked by people in November 1989, namely a direct democracy in which people rule, not selected elites. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u36	Now here is a point of fact - Mrs Jana Černochová. Mr. Zdeněk Ondráček will be ready. Madam, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u37	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would strongly object to calling someone a fascist. I didn't say anything like that. And I ask all colleagues not to confuse the concepts of fascism and Nazism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u38	Now, Mr... [[Reactions in the O.R.]] One more point in fact, in the last second, I got a jump on it. Mr Antonín Staněk, then. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u39	I apologize to the lady of the house because I've really changed it. I'm sorry. However, both of these terms appear very often here. But the MP didn't say it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u40	Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will now appear and prepare Mr Jaroslav Holík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are with one of the other acts of extradition that have entered the Chamber of Deputies for verbal crimes. If I have read Resolution No 131 of the mandate and immunity committee, where the deed is described as such, essentially the one sentence, and, as they say, repetition - the mother of wisdom: It is forbidden to import non-originating species of plants and animals into the territory of the European Union or the EU. Muslim migrants are also not the original inhabitants of Europe, and, like invasive species, they mean the unexpected spread and gradual displacement of the indigenous peoples of Europe. They should therefore also have a ban on entry into the EU. Signed by a colleague, Mrs Karla Maříková. - I didn't actually find anything fundamental about it, and I'd actually agree to it. [[15.50 hours]] The rapporteur mentioned that the complaint was lodged on the basis of a notification by a natural person. It is a škoda that the rapporteur did not mention that he is also a politician. Also a politician whose particular name we know because he's gotten into media space and I suppose I've read it somewhere, Jan Hadrava, the current mayor or mayor of the town of Lokte. The fact that two local politicians in the Karlovy Vary Region are dealing with some accounts and are using law enforcement authorities to do so is crap to me. If a colleague can't fight a politician in an honest way and argue over ideas at the speaker's desk, possibly. Somewhere else, he's a very weak man. He's filing a criminal complaint, OK. I thought the police had a slightly higher level of sensitivity and ability, but once again, I knew the police - and I perceived the appearance of Vice-President Okamura. You see, Mr Vice-President, I will not say through the President because you are sitting there, it is not always necessary to throw everything at the police. Maybe that particular police officer or police officer - I don't know who the particular police authority or that particular police officer is - maybe he didn't want to prosecute it himself, and maybe it's more a matter of the state's attorney, one who sees a particularly serious crime in this case, or a crime in this case, or an offence that he might want to shut up to a regional politician or a politician of a parliamentary political party. I would, of course, very much welcome it if such a prosecutor were the hero who pulls out or surfs or asks his people at the prosecutor's office or asks the police to find the articles that were mentioned here about invasive species, and mentioned this to the chairman of the Security Committee Radek Koten when Jiří X. Doležal has already written on 26 September 2016: Invasive species we destroy, invasive nations we welcome. Everything calm, everything quiet. The article is still traceable on the site or respectively. in media space. You can look it up, read it. The date of 11. 8. 2017 released another article - Migration: invasive species. And again: Scientists estimate the number of non-originating invasive species in Europe, etc., in the last 40 years when it has increased by three quarters, annual damage and more. [[unintelligible]] Of course, it relates to something again. Local politicians of the Czech Social Democratic Party were mentioned, then Vice-President of the Brno-venkov Bohunice district Mr. Milan Hrdlička, who published the article Attention to Slugs, it was mentioned again, and then there was an open conversation with him, when it became clear what he was talking about. It's a six-man thing again. 10. 2017 which was published, which came out. None of these cases have been investigated by law enforcement agencies, let alone investigated. Basically the same thing she said in one virtually. in two sentences, the first sentence being merely a statement of the fact already known - it is prohibited to import invasive non-originating species of plants and animals into the EU. That's an informative sentence. And then, of course, that thought march by my colleague that Muslim migrants are also not the original inhabitants of Europe, etc. That criminal prosecution never happened, and I think we would have to be ashamed if we allowed law enforcement authorities, and in this case, I dare say, and believe that the police have common sense, that it is more likely coming from the prosecutor's office if we had to hand it over to Mrs. Maříková. So I say for myself that I will not vote in favour of the extradition, and I believe that most of the KSČM parliamentary club will, too. And we, as politicians, should think about the state of justice in the Czech Republic, because we have spoken here several times, and we have also heard the mouth of the current Minister of Justice, and we have heard it from some of the senior former police officers who say that prosecution can be ordered from us. And that's the thing that I'm very scared of. Thank you and I will vote against extradition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u42	Mr Jaroslav Holík will now appear and prepare Mrs Zuzana Majerová. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u43	Mr President, Madam Minister, Minister and honourable colleagues, allow me to give a little thought here to the accusation of my colleague Karla Maříková. Because as far as I know, in her statement, she used more or less a citation from an educational dictionary. And if you don't mind, I'll quote the educational dictionary, too. "The invasive species is therefore a species of plant or animal, in a given territory non-originating, man-made, which spreads here uncontrolledly, aggressively expelling the original species. In a particularly dangerous invasion, the species can spread so uncontrolled that it disrupts entire communities or ecosystems, resulting in extensive environmental damage and suppression or destruction of many indigenous species. The spread of invasive species may also have economic, social or health implications. This leads to restrictions on the possibility of land management, increased costs, degradation of the recreational potential of the territory, or also the spread of allergens, i.e. diseases. Expansion of non-originating species poses risks in terms of biodiversity conservation, both at species level, i.e. various crossbreedings, so at the level of whole communities. In particular, where the non-originating type of ability which, for various reasons, favours it against the indigenous species and begins to spread uncontrolledly.' So many quotes. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask: Is it possible in a democratic society that a person should be prosecuted for citing this definition? I ask, "Where is freedom of speech?" Of course, many of you can now object and say, well, you quoted the educational dictionary there, and that was about the animal species and the plant species. But man, that's different. - You're wrong, and I'm gonna tell you what a man is. How it's biologically classified. It's an animal kingdom, a vertebrate subtribe, a mammal class, a subclass of animals, a primate order, a family of hominidi and a family of homo sapiens. So that means that a person belongs to this definition. And I can say one thing: I will fundamentally, as well as the entire SPD movement, oppose the extradition of my colleague Karla Maříková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u44	Now I have one point of fact. Mr František Vácha and Mrs Zuzana Majerová will prepare herself. Ambassador, please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u45	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to my colleague and colleagues before me. Through the President, my colleague, I will not issue you, I will vote against the extradition. However, I would like to point out that what you are quoting here, Article 7 of European Regulation 1143/2014, is really talking about non-originating, i.e. invasive species. But homo sapiens sapiens, homo sapiens is one species. So far, it's impossible to say that people from somewhere else in other continents are a different species. This European Union regulation even talks about eradication, which means the eradication of non-invasive species, so I would really be careful about this. I would really be careful to compare and apply the EC Regulation 1143 and to compare and talk about species and eradication of species, because there are not yet two species of man on the globe. The man is still biologically one species, so watch out for this when you're performing here. I know we have immunity to perform, and nothing's gonna happen to us, but this - I have a Ph.D. in general biology, so when you talk like that, it bothers me professionally, but it bothers me, too, humanly. So thank you for avoiding this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u46	Mrs Zuzana Majerová will now appear and prepare Mrs Monika Jarošová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u47	Good afternoon. So I, as the previous speaker, a colleague of the TOP 09, will not even discuss it in terms of linguistic, semantic, biological or species, because I don't think that's absolutely the essence of the problem we're dealing with here today. So, dear absent Mr. Secretary of the Interior Hamáček, absent Mr. Police President, esteemed colleagues, freedom of speech either is or is not. There is no freedom of speech in a country where a Member is being prosecuted for the banality expressed by her colleague Karla Maříková. In a country where freedom of speech is written in its Constitution, but at the same time it prosecutes people for expressing their opinion, which is, after all, every other citizen here is wrong. The comparison between humans and invasive natural species is said to be dehumanization. From my professional point of view, it's just personalization again. That's the word the moralists and professors of the one right view of the world especially liked. But isn't it more of a dehumanization when an invasion guerilla invades the office and shoots up the entire humorist magazine? Isn't it more of a dehumanization when the invasion squad kills hundreds of visitors to the cultural club? And they're all young people. Isn't it more dehumanizing when invading bombs explode in the subway and trucks smear visitors to the seaside promenade or Christmas markets? In my opinion, dehumanizing these hundreds of deaths and thousands of wounded, not one word analogy, is quite fitting. Police of the Czech Republic are asking the House to issue our colleague Karla Maříková because she wants to prosecute her for alleged incitement to hatred. I think that others should be prosecuted for inciting hatred, because something as monumentally stupid and dull as in the case of Karla Maříková produced the Minister of the Interior Hamáček with the help of the police, he cannot raise anything but the hatred in most normal people. Hate for the police, hate for the institutions, hate for the ruling politicians who allow the police to do something like this, hate for the regime that rules here, hate for the European Union under whose blue flag our freedom is slowly dying. Dear colleagues, we are moved to read the statement of the Supreme Court at the end of the famous Formanův film Lid versus Norton Edward. I quote: it is not for the Court to assess the question of taste, but the question of freedom of speech. And it either is or it isn't. And even a pervert like Mr. Flynt has this freedom guaranteed by the constitution. We should not be moved, but we should take an example from this. That is why I say, it is not for the police or Parliament to assess the question of taste, but the question of freedom of speech. And it either is or it isn't. Each of us has it guaranteed by the Constitution, even by Karla Maříková. Dear colleagues, let us learn from history. By trampling the freedom of speech, it begins with increased frequency and abuse of criminal prosecutions for verbal crimes, and it continues with totalitarianism. We have to stop this madness while there's still time. And that is why I would like to conclude by saying that, as with any other colleague, trikolóra will oppose the release of Karla Maříková. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u48	Good afternoon again. And now, with Mr Birke's point of fact, Mrs Jarošová will be prepared in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u49	Thank you for the floor. I apologize for the third time on this point, and I note that this is not the question of Mrs Maříková, of course she understands that, but I will simply perform every time any of you touch the absent Home Secretary. I think that's my duty. [[To the messenger. Majerous Gardeners:]] My colleague, please don't yell at me. [[on the President]] I too listened carefully and behaved disciplinedly. You're a lady, so I'm decent to you. On the other hand, I must say, and once again, I will not replicate your words, but again, the Home Secretary does not direct the police. Whether you like it or not, it's just the way it is. If you think he should manage it in any way, influence it, enter trials, and there are lawyers, erudite, top lawyers, who will immediately lead me out of this impression. This is simply not how it should be in a democratic society. And at this point, I repeat again, if that's the case, then the proceedings, let us have the experience of it, and believe me, I have a wealth of experience with the Police of the Czech Republic as mayor - 36 criminal notices I am wearing! So just so we can imagine, and I'm not just crying, and I'm not saying that the minister is sending it to me, whatever political parties I've been doing in ten years. It's just not like that. I firmly believe in the state and believe in the system at this point. So, please, on every occasion, I will simply defend the absent President Hamáček here. I suppose I'll bring back a number of other techs, but that's who I am. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u50	Thank you and now, with Mrs Černochová's point of fact, then Mrs Maříková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u51	Thank you. I have to respond to colleague Birke because he is a relatively new member of the Security Committee. We even elected him Vice-President at the last meeting, so he does not know that we discussed this matter on the Security Committee because we were discussing a report on extremism, where I can actually confirm the words of Mr Koten's Chairman of the Security Committee, there was this completely inappropriate comment at the wrong time. And perhaps I would recommend to Mr Birke that he ask Mr Hamáček how the Minister reacted to the Security Committee at the time. The Minister acknowledged that it was a mistake that it was there, just as his colleagues acknowledged it, and the debate was very heated there. There was - now we revived it with Vice-President Mašek, we took note - there was also a discussion with the petitioner, i.e. with the Interior Minister and his colleagues, specifically with the Director of the Bačkovský Department, who acknowledged that it was not meant to be there to the extent that it was there. So since you're defending the minister here, why don't you ask him how it went? Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u52	Thank you. I ask that we address ourselves through me, and Mrs Maříková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will respond to Mr Birke. It has been mentioned several times that my previous speakers want the Home Secretary to influence the police. I think you're turning it around a little bit. What is criticized here is that the Ministry of the Interior lists in its quarterly report on extremism persons whose cases are in the preliminary proceedings and were not found guilty by the court, so they are still innocent under our law if the presumption of innocence applies here. Minister Hamáček, who is a member of the ČSSD, is in charge of the ministry. That's criticized here. No one here wants the Minister to influence the police, but the Minister here actually admits that the courts here have no weight. He's the one who decides whether anyone's guilty or not, he's the one who's responsible for the D.O.D.'s leaking the news. So unfortunately, that's why your minister is being criticized here. He could have come today, I'm quite sorry, and he could have stepped up and responded to the comments that were made here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u54	Thank you. Mr Birke is signed up with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u55	I have to respond to that, of course. I don't want to develop any more controversy here, and I don't want to delay nine more speakers, especially from the SPD. I wouldn't want that, and I'm sorry. No, that's okay, and it's your right, and I wouldn't do anything else if they wanted to hand over my colleague, I'd probably be in his defense. I think it's okay. I'm not saying that like I'm under the belt, not at all. Thank you very much, my colleague, Madam Mayor, who recommends that I - Černochová, I apologize to my colleague - who recommends that I speak with the Minister. Well, I'm talking to him, of course. It's true I'm new, you even elected me Vice-President. Thank you so much for voting for me as Vice-President, I greatly appreciate it. Well, it's not a win for me, but after seven years, I have some function. I just want to say in this honored House, on the other hand, the truth is, I confess, I'm new there, newbie, I make mistakes, and when I make a mistake, I apologize for it. But what I'm saying here is I'm just upset about the -- I'm sorry about the expression, and now I'm saying again, I'm sorry about the expression -- we just have a Hamáček here, so let's just paint it, and in some way... I don't care - and now, of course, I know you're going to perform again and so on and so forth - I don't care if there's any news, I don't understand it, I'm not erudized about this. I'm just saying, the minute I'm defending my boss, I think it's okay, that's all. And as you defend your colleague, I'm just defending my chairman. It's just erudized, it's as simple as one and one is two. That's all. In a moment, if you continue to speak against the President, I will speak again in favour of the President. That's all, I think that's what I'm supposed to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u56	Thank you. Mr Foldyna is now reporting with a factual remark from the seat. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to respond through you to Honza Birke. Honza said that SPD members are here to defend Karla Maríková, defending that we are not actually defending Karla Maříková, but freedom of speech. And since we're friends, and I think we're still--Honza, I mean, if anyone here were charged, not just with the SPD, but if he was a member of social democracy and he was charged in the same spirit, I would have stepped out. And I'd fight to the last breath for each and every one of you here if anyone wanted to take away our freedom, our freedom of speech. It's not for Karla Maříková, I'm here to perform for freedom of speech. That's the attack that's going on here. If it was a Communist or a Social Democrat or an YES or any other movement, I'd step out and defend it from anyone. And that's the whole point of the thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u58	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Birke.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u59	Thank you so much for the floor. I hope I get to perform for the last time, I don't want to get emotional, and I don't want to get any more technical. Through the President, Mr Foldyn. I'll sign everything you said. I'll sign, Jarda, what you said here, I agree with you. Whether it's him or him, if he's threatened at his rights or at his freedom, believe me, I'll do the same. There's no argument about that. I repeat, I'm not doing anything else why I'm here defending my boss, that's all. I'm not questioning - and I said that, and I wouldn't do anything else if there was a question of extradition with my colleague or any of his rights, I'd do the same. I think it's obvious, and I'm not judging anyone for that either, not at all. I'm just defending my boss. Nothing more, nothing less. I think that's what I'm supposed to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u60	Thank you. And before I give the floor to another speaker, I'll introduce you to a note. President Vondráček apologizes for today's meeting of the diaper from 5:30 p.m. and also tomorrow until 12:00 p.m. Now, please, Mrs Jarošová, Mr Foldyna will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. We are now debating the extradition to prosecute a colleague and a Member of the SPD, Karla Maříková, for expressing herself freely, for using her right to freedom of speech, which is guaranteed to everyone by the Constitution. Freedom of speech defines the level and quality of democracy and must apply in any case, and therefore even if it does not suit those who are in power. Karla Maříková called things her real name, and she's supposed to be punished for that. She is dehonested for words she merely warned of the dangers of illegal migration, for words that most of our nation would sign under. Do you want to condemn the vast majority of the nation for a similar view? Or will you just need Karel next time to warn us to watch out for what we're saying? If she should even be condemned for her words, then our democracy is merely a parody and freedom of phrase that no one can take seriously. In that case, there can be no more talk of democracy, of human rights and of differing views. The only thing left is the new dictatorship of the only and powerful acceptable truth. And because I disagree, and because I respect freedom of speech and respect democracy, I stand by my colleague Karla Maříková. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u62	Thank you and now Mr Foldyna, Mrs Hyťhová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My colleagues and colleagues, I speak to you in fact, but at the same time I speak to the citizens, but I also speak to those who are behind the whole case. I'm not naive that it's a coincidence. I'm not naive because I know there are other very similar cases, and I'm sure I'll talk about them here. Is that what you want us to keep our mouths shut and step up? Now I speak to those who are behind this, behind the restriction of freedom. To keep quiet, to declare the lie the truth and the truth a crime? How many people do you talk to in the hallway and talk exactly like Maříková? Only that Maříková woman, as a man, took the liberty of writing it on Facebook. She didn't screw up, and she wrote what most of the nation thinks, and a lot of you politicians, she just wrote on Facebook. It's not surprising. True, the truth can't be defeated by someone's power to accuse someone. We learned from history, we've seen it a hundred times. Even Mussolini thought he was right, and ended up behind his feet head down. Even Urválek thought he was right, and sent Horáková to the gallows. And you all know how it turned out. The truth isn't about pushing her over the law. You can't punish someone like that for thinking. This is where we began to deal with the form and concept of prejudiced hatred. What kind of nonsense is that? Friends, what does this mean, this prejudiced hatred? Does that mean you - or are we going to be blamed and blame people for what they think? Let's accuse him of calling on somebody to hate from a racial point of view, religion. I understand that. We have all the papers for that. But there is no prejudiced hatred. [[16.20 hours]] Let's not abuse the police. I appreciate the work of our cops. You know they don't want to do this, this political nonsense? They don't say it openly, they can't, either, but they're sick of it. We're here for four years. They're gonna be there for 20 years, or 30 years doing their job, those cops. I challenge them: Put this on their heads to those politicians, don't worry! We appreciate you, we know you don't agree with that either! A whole bunch of judges and prosecutors are sick of making up these pseudo-causes! The pseudocauses that are true, the truth is claimed to be a crime. It's all been here before. It was all here. Aren't you afraid? You, who is behind this, that one day you will be here to confess to the nation for what you've been doing? Not Marík. Maříková just said what most people think. We are biologically exactly the same people as those who live in Africa. Yes, we're exactly the same people. But culturally, socially and religiously, we are completely different! This is confirmed by the millions of dead ancestors who have fought to enable us in Europe and in the Christian world to live the way we live. [[He's still talking very loudly, strongly.]] That's the point! That and nothing else. We don't question the right of Afričan to live in Africa. Let's not interfere. Let's not interfere with their lives. And this isn't Mogadishu, this is Somalia. And I don't want to meddle with the Somálec about how they're supposed to live. The Somali knows best how he's supposed to live. Hungarian's the best way to live Maďar. Let us try to understand and try to be the same. Why would we interfere? But somebody else thinks that if they implant the Somálec into us, you're Afghánec, and I don't know who everything is, they're gonna thin out our culture. Well, that's what our ancestors fought for in Vienna. They were dying in those warfields so that you and we could live the way we live! To preserve our culture. That Jewishness and Christianity in Europe be the underlying religion. And we're gonna sue Maříková for taking the liberty of saying it out loud, not writing it. My friends, I'm sad about this. Thirty years ago, I thought it was over. It's not over. Nazis, communists, and now here come some neo-liberals, more or less neo-marxists or fools who are starting this fight again, dividing the nation into one or the other. There's a fascist here, a fascist there! Nazi here, Nazi there! That you're not ashamed of the millions of the dead from Mauthausen and those fronts who fought for it! I mean, it's all completely different. He's just here, and he's just interested in global capital to prosper, to have a mindless mass, and we're subject to it. I'm not giving up Karla Maříková! I'm not giving up any of you who have an opinion. You can have it, but it's different, but it's an opinion, and that's freedom. Freedom, the most precious thing we could ever get. And that's why I thank you for standing up to not hand over Karla Maříková today. That's the partial piece from the freedom mosaic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u64	We have factual points here. Mr Dolínek will be the first to respond, then Mr Válek will be the first to respond. So, with a factual remark, Mr Dolínek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u65	Thank you. A serious colleague, dear colleagues, really seriously. The more we scream, the more we can't convince them. I think it would be good to go to the materiality and consistency of speech and not to raise voice and shouting, because it doesn't really lead to anything. That's the first thing. Second thing. I think today is a really sad day for parliamentary democracy. And now I don't mean because of Mrs Maříková, but because of the concepts that we have witnessed today, unfortunately, since Mrs Černochová's statement, I can understand why she got angry. I think she's been very clear about why she has an attitude since Sunday, and I don't have to agree with him, but I respect that attitude. But it's been very unfortunate since that morning. And actually, we're just looking today, a number of my colleagues, or you're looking for a way to beat it with an even more peppered expression from this area. I think the area was really dark in human history. That area doesn't deserve to be remembered on the side of the terms that sound. She deserves what she reminded the honourable Member. He deserves what was mentioned here by his colleague, Foldyna, the victims. But not the creators, not the rapists, not the evil that was here. I'd like to ask you all, try to remove it from your speeches. Because it becomes a breeding ground for other people, who will then be happy to ride on it, they will be happy to use it. Then they will tell at their meetings and meetings that it sounds exactly in the House, so why couldn't they say it differently? Let's try to get back to the point, please. We'll all vote somehow. But I don't think that's appropriate. And two. I certainly did not like the way she used it. I think comparing living people to invasive plants is disgusting. But I'm sure she has to deal with the person who supports her where she chooses, and that's probably not what she's gonna deal with me, and that's probably what democracy is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u66	Thank you. And now, Mr Válek, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u67	The way I see it, we can't get to anything else today. I thought we were going to vote in five minutes, basically not going to vote in the same way we always do, and that's the end of it, because that's probably a long-term practice, and I'm not questioning it. That's how I got it, that's how I keep doing it, always explaining it to my co-workers and colleagues why we didn't release the MPs. However, I understand that we shouldn't stand here and piss it off and use such a subject unnecessarily when someone is suing someone for what he said. So he sued him. We decide whether to publish it or not. We should really connect everyone. And through Mr President, I completely agree with what Mr Foldyna said that we should not divide but join. And his really nice, deep intellectual ideas filled with speech, which was consistent, atypically nationalally linking a speech across the political spectrum, was proof of how it should connect. Thank you very much. Really good.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u68	Thank you. And now we've exhausted the factual remarks, so I'm asking the lady to take the floor. Mr Kobza will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u69	Well, hello. Thank you for the floor. I would also like to comment here, through Mr President, on what Mr Dolínek said before me. I also have the view that, of course, we should not mention these things, or virtually. rather today, as the meeting is going on here, I don't like it at all. But on the other hand, it's good to say what happened and avoid it happening. And I'm afraid the point that we're discussing today is that it's going back a little bit into history. I would just like to express myself here as the youngest Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, because I am speaking as a really young person who has neither experienced any world war nor the regime of the Czech Republic at the time, and I simply have not experienced fascism, as we call ourselves here today, nor the government of one party, where people's opinions have also been determined or rather directed by the Central Committee. It all happened. I didn't experience any of this. And frankly, I am happy to live in a democratic state in a democratic time and have the right to say what I think. And just as there are democratic elections in this country, which I think is a fundamental element of democracy, we will all democratically choose who we want to vote for, etc., so I think that there is also a part of democracy to say what we think. And that is what Mrs Karla Maříková has done, and I do not think it would be appropriate to prosecute her for that. Or virtually. Well, we could be prosecuting here as soon as today's House Thursday, because the expressions that are falling here today, so I really, really do have reason to stand still. So I'm glad I didn't experience these regimes at the time, and I hope that I won't, and that we will avoid it, and this will not go back to these tendencies over the years, because I don't want my future children to experience it, or it has been experienced by anyone who, thank God, didn't have to experience it. So, please, let's vote against the release of Karla Maříková, just as I will today. And I would like to express my support for her, of course, because she's a good girl. And I believe that this case will be closed today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u70	Thank you. Now, Mr Kobza, Mr Pávek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u71	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u72	I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House to remain calm. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I'm not going to hit the absent ministers or otherwise stir up the water here. I'd rather return to the substance of the matter that my colleague, Mr. Foldyna, was talking about. In September 2018, when I held a seminar entitled Freedom of Word and the Right of a Citizen to Truth, which brought about quite a lot of media attention, it did not occur to me that in a year and a half we would actually be discussing very seriously how this freedom of speech is threatened. Let's face it, no dictatorship in human history has ever come in its beginnings, saying, "I am here to rob you of your freedom, to enslave you, to oppress you." That's not how dictatorships come. They come up with the idea of offering people good. We are slowly getting to the stage - to quote Jan Werich in a prescene when he said: In this place, everyone can say what they want. And Horníček asked him, "Really? Werich says, "Of course. At your own risk, of course. So even today we can say what we want, but at our own risk, because interpretations of prejudiced hatred, and we can say that even the word hate begins to take two directions. One is hate permitted, recommended, promoted, we can say proneged, against the President, against the SPD, against Russia or China, and then, of course, hatred that is prosecuted, and that is actually hatred against any opinion that would call into question the leading role and indisputable truthfulness of the European Union and any nonsense that crawls out of it. I think George Orwell must be rotating in his grave like a propeller, because if he were here, he would be screaming out loud, saying, "Oh, my God, people, I wrote my 1984 novel as a warning, not as a guide!" We have to realize that what we're dealing with here really isn't just a rather trivial case for colleague Maříková. We're dealing with a critical fundamental question here that there's been a major attack on freedom of speech. There's ostracizing. You know, after all, Mr. Birke here admitted that we all receive a number of debauchery e-mails from different anonymous addresses and so on. I'm far from being naive to think it's a coincidence. I am deeply convinced that this is a systemic attack on the freedom of our word and on freedom of expression. So for that reason, I think the Karla Maříková case is very warning. He's alerting this danger. We really - whether there's a consensus between us that we're not going to give Karla, because then we could really give it to everyone, and the accusation is pointless, because we know well that the expressions that go with the angry hatred that are far worse, far more brutal, vulgar, are hundreds, and there's nothing going on for those people, they're not being prosecuted, they're not being sued. So we really must bear in mind, and it concerns all of us across the political spectrum, that if we let the freedom of speech that is, by the way, not mentioned here today, guaranteed by the Czech Constitution, if we let our constitutional rights be trampled, then we must admit that as guardians of democracy, which we are all here as legislators, we have failed fatally. So I am expressing my support for Karla Maříková, but first of all I am expressing my support for freedom of speech and freedom of opinion and the fact that a citizen has the right to the truth to hear it from the media despite all the European Union's instructions on how the public is to be informed and what is to be informed and what is not to be heard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u74	Mr Pávek will be next in the debate. Mr. Rozner will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I'm sure no one here will suspect me of the conversion of the SPD program, but as a person who is very sensitive to any oppression, any form of non-freedom, measures aimed at preventing freedom from being a vital program of the state again, I want to stand up for it. Plus, I read the statement. In my opinion, it doesn't meet the parameters of any crime at all. That's out of any doubt. On the verge of opposers, I would be willing to accept the tastelessness of such a statement, but never, never criminality. Secondly, I would like to say that I am interested in the police report that was quoted here that actually aggravating circumstances are supposed to be that Karla Maříková is a politician. Dear colleagues, you know, I think politicians are basically the top of the pyramid, which has a duty to present and formulate opinions that they hear down in society. And it is understandable that society, as diverse as it is, holds diverse views and views on individual topics, as we represent - we are basically merely representatives of these opinions, these attitudes, because we are elected by these people. That means it's our duty to present these opinions here. That's why we have immunity to free speech. And we must insist that this freedom be maintained, because if we silence politicians, we silence the nation. And I don't care if I identify with the opinions of individual factions, parties or individuals. The point is that freedom of expression, freedom of speech must not be affected. I'd say in this case, if I lighten things up a little, the D.A. just got a bad night's sleep and didn't understand what was going on. I think it might also be appropriate to initiate a review of his progress from this point of view by the superior body, because drawing from the quote that Karla Maříková made on Facebook, prosecution, is simply an incredible thing. Unbelievable and impossible for me. So, of course, if Karla doesn't ask for an extradition herself, I'm going to vote against her extradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u76	Thank you. Now, Mrs Černochová, with a point of fact, at this point in time, a single factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u77	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll follow up on my previous speaker, and I'll take advantage of the fact that the Minister of Justice is sitting among us, because what my colleague said here is true. And I would also like to point out one disproportion that exists here, because we as politicians, on the other hand, must endure anything and the law enforcement authority will say, "You are politicians, you must bear it, because you are publicly active." So on the one hand, we have less rights, and on the other hand, we have more rights? What is it, then? Here, I would really like the Justice Department - although I understand all this influence or influence on the prosecutor's office - to be the moderator of the debate so that they can choose one path, but they've kept it so that it doesn't happen to us that somebody wants to cut our heads off, they want to hang us. It's proven who's doing it, it's got an IP address, it's traceable, but the police department tells us you're a public official, you have to bear it. I don't like it. Nor will I vote in favour of Mrs Maříková's extradition, for this reason, because I do not really see this as a fair assessment of de facto one thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u78	Thank you and now Mr Rozner, Mr Jelínek will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u79	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, the House's mandate and immunity committee unanimously stated that it does not recommend the extradition of Ms Maříková to prosecute. Personally, I don't think we can stay with this statement. The President of the Czech Republic said that the SPD movement is not extremist, but is a movement with a radical program. I am stating this because my colleague, Mr. Maříková, is not being investigated by the police for breaking the law. It's being investigated for political reasons. Prejudice hate is no term known to the penal code. It is merely an excuse for the political intimidation of people with political views that are behind the acceptable political lines. It is set and determined by EU builders today. It shall be determined selectively. Critical to hateful speeches about Russia, China, President Trump or Christian values are permitted. Migration has full protection and support from the EU; it is, of course, under full protection from criticism. There you threaten the building efforts of the EU elite, which want to make Europe a united state with a unified population. It creates a new Evropan instead of European nations. Our program is radical in the fact that we want to remain Czechs, Moravians, Silesians and others who live in this country, and we want to make decisions about this country. Of course, the interests of the elites of the European Union are those who write senseless reports on extremism, where it is intended to introduce the SPD movement. The interests of the elite of the European Union are served by anyone who spares a non-existent crime called predicate hatred. We're not defending Colleague Maříková today or the SPD movement. Today we are defending freedom of speech and democracy. Today it's gonna be the SPD, somebody else tomorrow. Today, we defend all of us who understand democracy, refuse to give a muzzle to political correctness and criminalise political opponents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u80	Now, Mr Jelínek, then Mr Podal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the anniversary of the 78th anniversary of the assassination of Reich Protector Reinhard Heydrich. In contrast to the heroic act of Jozef Gabčík and Jan Kubiš in these days publishing Our army issued a calendar with portraits of Nazi chiefs in a format suitable for frame. In this case, I would automatically expect the activities of law enforcement agencies for the act of promoting Nazism. But it's okay. At present, when social engineering in society is moving towards the creation of a sterile society without its own opinion, which thoughtlessly parrots the comments of reports from media experts, such excesses become the norm. The Constitutional Order of the Czech Republic consists, among other things, of the Constitution of our State as the highest legal standard of the rule of law, which is the legal expression of the existence of the State, and of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. There is a second section in this Charter that describes political rights. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 17 is mentioned in paragraph 1: Freedom of expression and the right to information are guaranteed. Secondly, everyone has the right to express their views in word, in writing, in print, in images or in other ways, as well as freely seek, receive and disseminate ideas and information regardless of state borders. Thirdly, censorship is inadmissible. Let us now remember the statement by Mrs Maříková: It is forbidden to import invasive non-originating species of plants and animals into the EU. Muslim immigrants are also not the original inhabitants of Europe, and, like invasive species, they mean the unexpected spread and gradual displacement of the indigenous peoples of Europe. They should therefore also have a ban on entry into the EU. - If we imagine this statement with a question mark at the end of the sentence, we will understand the magic of the Czech language when we recall the statement, a short sentence: execute no, release. All you have to do is put the comma a little bit different and the meaning is completely different. The Criminal Code contains crimes that interfere with human coexistence. In a police document, there is a suspicion of an act of incitement to hatred. We're gonna go back to some educational anals and find that hate is a long-term intense emotion directed against a particular object. I really do not find the fulfillment of this definition in that statement. I see prosecution as an attempt to intimidate other people with patriotic views. The whole SPD club is behind Karla Maříková. The sign of every totalitarianism is the end of freedom to express its views publicly. It's not just about migrants, it's about freedom that separates totalitarianism from democracy. This is clearly an attempt to suppress freedom of speech and would be a dangerous precedent for the future. There is no way to get rid of the impression that this is a political process to order. I am together with the entire SPD against the extradition of a colleague of Mrs Karla Maříková. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u82	Thank you and now Mr Podal, Mrs Válková will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Dear ministers, colleagues, colleagues, I will try to return things to where they belong, to the human dimension of our colleague Maříková. We have an office together, so I get a chance to watch it every day. She's a sensitive woman who doesn't think only of herself. I have a beautiful memory of it - even though it wasn't so beautiful - when I was removed from the gallbladder and the doctor said to me, "Do you have anyone there in the House?" Because the next day after the surgery I went straight to the House, it was necessary, I should have voted. He said, "Do you have anyone there to take you in, who will clean your wound, who will bandage it for you?" I said, "I don't know, I'll ask." Karla offered herself, and I can tell she pulled me out of the worst. So I'm grateful for that, Karel. But I hear from her how she didn't just care about me, she takes care of the people in her county, she takes care of the animals. She's already known as her goose, she's got her name, she's seen like dogs. So I'd like to put it all back to the fact that she's not an evil woman who's here to act against people who can smell some ideology, but she's a perfectly normal sensitive young woman who I respect, and I'm rooting for her. And handing it out, I'd have to spit in front of me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u84	And now, Mrs Válková, Mrs Šafránková will be ready. Please, you have the floor. I will ask the House for peace after this emotional speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would also like to comment on this. I don't think anyone suspects that I'm somehow tuning in against the reception of, like, kids from destinations where they were unlucky to be born. I was the one who wrote a letter after visiting those detention centers, so it is convenient to say, in the territory of Greece in the autumn of 2019, the ministers of the interior, the ministers of foreign affairs to the Prime Minister, and I warned that it would be good as a symbolic gesture, or more than symbolic, to accept fifty children. There were also some Members, by your means, Jarošová, with whom we have very good collegial relations, but she is of a different opinion. So in this respect, I am consistent and I think that humanitarian aid and the principle of solidarity obliges us more than most of us want to realize. On the other hand, criminal law - and I have been lecturing it for a long time and I still love it very much - is that it is the ultimate means that we have in law at our disposal. Therefore, the ancient principle that says economics of criminal repression - where it is not necessary to apply it - applies. And what does this case we're dealing with tell us? In my opinion, this is an assessment of the degree of social harm, as required by Section 12 of the Criminal Code, which requires us to always be very cautious where it moves on the same border. Isn't that the case? When I first read what Mrs Maříková had published on her private Facebook account, I thought it was a really stupid analogy, an inappropriate statement. Again, my dear Member, I must say that I have already committed myself to these inappropriate statements in the past, sometimes with fatal consequences for my political career. And more times. I also stood here, as Mrs Černochová reminded me this morning, and I apologized for them. So in this respect, I know that sometimes when a person is wannabe funny or tired or wants to use a nice exaggeration, they say something that resonates differently in political space than they imagined. And I personally don't think you wanted to offend anyone. I think it was a silly exaggeration, likeness, symbolism, and that you didn't really want to exterminate anyone, or to prevent drastic measures, or to challenge, to encourage not one child, not one adult, nor one migrant to get here, because they could infect our Czech Republic. I don't think so. And just when I put it into this context, as criminal law and its principles impose, it seems to me that it is not ripe for criminal repression. But who can judge? Professor of Criminal Law? Maybe if he's going to enter a question like that in the exam or he's going to try at the state's office and he's going to think, "This guy's between number one and number two, I'm going to try him on this one." You can see from the same point of view that a double interpretation is possible, or a restrictive and extensive interpretation. And whoever really can and must judge is the law enforcement authorities. However, you are a politician, and we have the privilege, the privilege, of assessing such conduct with political optics. And I would like to say to you, my dear colleague, that I would not like to use criminal law for this in your case, which is why I will not vote in favour of your extradition, because that would make you a political victim. And I don't want to do that because I don't share your political views in this regard and I'll never share them. On the other hand, I consider the waste of criminal repression on cases such as yours to be highly dangerous, and we could really be politicized by criminal repression. And what Mr Ondráček said here, I am very sorry about that too, of course. Because he criticizes criminal justice, he says it also bothers him, but from his words and context, he believes that prosecution can be ordered in the Czech Republic. He also refers to Mrs. Minister Benešová. You might think I'm very naive. I still hope that this is possible only in those circles that we refer to as organized crime, or circles in which none of us are moving. So I don't think it would be possible to order prosecution in the Czech Republic except for absolute exceptions. And we shouldn't consider those exceptions a rule. The leak of information, I myself really felt this on my own, is one of the most dangerous weapons used by the other party, in this case politicians who abuse their position and maybe establish contacts with journalists and journalists again with someone who wants to sparkle, and I will no longer say in what sense of the word, and the information is being released. There were so many cases here, I don't even want to point them all out. But that doesn't have much to do with this case. We therefore do not decide on quality, less quality or very poor quality work by police officers or others who are involved in criminal justice, but whether our colleague has crossed the imaginary limit of criminal law and should be given to law enforcement authorities. I'm not sure about that, but I'm sure if we hand it over, we risk being acquitted and becoming a victim. Political sacrifice. Because they say she was a criminal, she was criminalized for her political opinion. That is precisely why, when we all vote, we should realise that we are voting politically and consider whether we will actually raise the hand for the issue or not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u86	Thank you. Mr Foldyna is reporting with a factual remark from the point of view. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u87	Thank you for the floor. I would like to make one point about what Mrs Válková said, paradoxically, about the positive one. I have recently followed developments in Slovakia and a Member from the Slovak Parliament has been charged. There's a slightly different law with them. They even removed him from the constitution for some very similar statements. He was sentenced to a fine of EUR 10,000. He paid ten thousand euros, so the punishment was fulfilled. He was running in the next election from the last place of the candidate. With 60,000 votes, he went to parliament. Congratulations to Karla Maříková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u88	Thank you. Mr Ondráček is also reporting with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u89	Thank you. I heard Professor Válková's performance, and she mentioned if we actually believe that, if you can order a prosecution. You know, I've been standing here, too, and you've also decided on my extradition for a verbal offense. Yes, I do. Because what I've heard about what's the point of my prosecution, the point is to shut me up. That's how it was supposed to be handled. If it's normal for you, it's not for me. And we're in a very difficult situation. There are a number of Members who might be able to tell the story. As I mentioned in my performance, let's think about where we've come up with this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u90	And now, Mrs Šafránková. A Member of Parliament will be ready to call the Rozvoral. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, one of the most important philosophers of liberalism and modern history was undoubtedly an English thinker, economist and politician John Stuart Mill. Despite my inherent conviction as an ideal and political conservatism, let us remember here when we are to decide on the extradition of my colleague from the SPD, Mrs. Karla Maříková, to prosecute for the opinion expressed, some of his work on freedom. A work that is one of the fundamental pillars of the concept of a free and democratic Western-type society. And let's think about them. It's worth it. [[17,00 hours]] In the chapter on freedom of thought and discussion, Mill takes the view that a person in a truly free society should have the right to express any opinion and that any such opinion should be given room for a straight discussion. Mill defends this idea with the following arguments - I quote: One. If we do not accept any opinion about the debate, it is possible that we will silence the true idea. Given our naturally limited intellectual abilities, we cannot be 100% sure of the truth of our opinions. - Mill says: We can never know with certainty that the opinion we are trying to suppress is false. Two. Even if the silenced view was false as a whole, he could, as Mill says often happens, contain at least a grain of truth. And since the prevailing views are almost never completely true, the only way to make the truth come to light is to submit this view to a debate with a conflicting view. Three. Even if the adopted opinion is true, so long as it is not challenged and debated, it threatens to be accepted only as prejudice or dogma. - End of quote. Thus, society may have a tendency to ostracize opinion minorities and discourage them from their own development, because this dogma will gain the strength of something already tested and thus infallible, which will result in society not taking into account the potential weaknesses of that opinion. This is all the more true at a time when we not only censor some uncomfortable opinion but even want to penalize it, because in the diction of an older bonmot about freedom of speech we can only speak there and only if it is followed by freedom of expression. Ladies and gentlemen, freedom, including freedom of speech, is not enough only to theorize from time to time. It is necessary to stand up for it in specific cases, in situations where it is really about it and when it is about the freedom of specific people, in this case my colleague Karla Maříková. That is why I support her and will vote against her extradition for prosecution only for paying her constitutionally guaranteed right to freedom of speech. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u92	And now the Member has Rozvoral the door, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková will prepare herself. Sorry, sorry, Mrs Černochová signed up for a point of fact a long time ago. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u93	I'm sorry too. I couldn't resist, I have to respond to Mrs Válková. Because I would also like to believe the beautiful idea she mentioned here, but unfortunately we've both been in the Chamber of Deputies for some time now, so we've had various cases here, we've had various defenses in the extradition applications. And so I will allow myself to oppose Professor Válková and remind myself of the two cases that I think she herself will recognize that they had to be on a political order, because otherwise I cannot explain the next course. One case was the extradition of Mr then Mayor Bohuslav Svoboda, when Mrs Válková voted for the release for the first time, voted against the extradition for the second time, even apologized to Mr Svoboda for the first time naively voting in favour, but that, in fact, when she found out that the political case was, she would not repeat the second time. The second case that I would mention here is the case of Mr Růžička, where I, too, have acted in his defence and when the conduct of the state's attorney in particular was completely non-standard and completely scandalous. So, I'm sorry, I have an elephant memory, and I had to remind my colleague Válková, and I'd like her to tell us here that she was wrong. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u94	Thank you. I would ask that we address ourselves through me, even if the debate is quite civilised. And Mrs Válková is reporting a word with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u95	Thank you. Well, I was invited, but I'd love to. In that first case, I can confirm this very well, even the described course, I also learned, it was the first period, and believe me, I have not forgotten the case, my dear colleague. But in the latter case, I wouldn't say it was a political action. As a member of the mandate and immunity committee, I dare say that it was a very bad job as a prosecutor, a young prosecutor. I asked her all kinds of questions, the answers were horrible, not saying anything. I can't go into details because of course we all know it's a private meeting. But he only convinced me that there weren't people there who had enough expertise to judge such cases. There's another question, and I'm telling you the truth, whether the supervisor's supervision was what it was supposed to be. And maybe there's room for reflection that you've indicated here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u96	Well, thank you. And Mr Růžička came forward with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u97	Hello. I'd just like to clarify Professor Válková. So, yes, the D.A. did our trial the way she did, and she was promoted for a reward, and she's the head of state's attorney in Louny. So... Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u98	Thank you. Now, therefore, the Member has Rozvoral the door and will prepare Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. You have your word, but I may be able to interrupt you for a little while and ask the House for more peace. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to comment on this point, which is a request from the Police of the Czech Republic for the extradition of Ms Karla Maříková for criminal prosecution because of her statement on immigrants on Facebook. Some of it has already been said here, but repetition is the mother of wisdom. The request states that the Police of the Czech Republic have initiated criminal proceedings on suspicion of committing the act of defamation of a nation, race, ethnic or other group of persons, and an act of incitement to hatred against a group of persons or the restriction of their rights and freedoms against a Member of the SPD, Karla Maříková, for her statement which literally sounded - I quote: It is prohibited to import invasive non-originating species of plants and animals into the EU. Muslim immigrants are also not the original inhabitants of Europe, and, like invasive species, they mean the unexpected spread and gradual displacement of the indigenous peoples of Europe. They should therefore also have a ban on entry into the EU. - End of quote. In the SPD movement, we view this police request as an actual attempt to criminalise public anti-immigration positions, and we firmly stand by the subsequent expression of our Member, who commented on the issue of extradition to prosecution by saying that in a contribution for which the Police of the Czech Republic want to prosecute it, she did nothing wrong, did not call for anything, nor did she urge anyone to attack. It was therefore a free expression of its anti-immigration opinion, and its statements in this context are in line with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. We see Karla Maříková's efforts to prosecute anti-immigration statements as an attempt to criminalize the entire SPD movement politically and to combat freedom of speech. The criminalisation of our Member for her statement on the non-compliance of the lifestyle of most immigrants from Africa and the Middle East with the values and social standards of domestic European societies is extremely unfair and suggests a lot about the influence of power pro-brussels elites. We also see prosecution as an attempt to intimidate our decent people with patriotic views. The whole thing is just a political case against our movement, and I have a whole series of arguments about why it is. [[17.10 hours]] The first is that the announcement to investigate the statement by our Member was made by municipal politicians. Furthermore, regardless of the fact that Ms Maříková had been shown any criminal activity, she was dragged in a report by the Ministry of Interior on extremism, which is unacceptable because it is a living file. For this reason, a criminal complaint was also filed, both at the Police of the Czech Republic and at the Ministry of the Interior itself. [[There's a lot of noise in the room!]] Other arguments that confirm the politicisation of the matter are some of the same, similar or really unacceptable statements in public space, which the police and the Ministry of the Interior are not interested in and are not punishing anyone for. As an example of the same or similar, I'll give you four. Journalist, publicist and writer Jiří X. Doležal down on 26. 9. 2016 on the web Reflex wrote an article entitled Invasive Species We Ruin, Invasive Nations We Welcome. Among other things, the article states: "Modern ecology, the science of the functioning of complex biological systems, is very uncompromisingly opposed to dressed, preferably to feverishly multiplying invasive species. But people who oppose invasive human populations are called fascists. However, when we are to judge not the spread of the raccoon, but the non-originating and strongly socio-culturally distinct populations of our own species, understand people from fundamentally different cultures, forget about ecology and as an expression of our goodness we introduce a welcome policy, although most Evropan disagree with it, even though Muslim immigrants from tribal society are able to disrupt our social ecosystem, even though science has shown that moving large populations outside the original occurrence will always harm a new place, we welcome it. Even less cordially than last year, but Mrs Merkelová is still convinced she can do it." End of quote. Jaroslav Šesták, a university teacher in the field of physics and an honorary citizen of Prague 5, wrote an article entitled Migration: Invasive species published on the website on 11 August 2017 Invisible dog, in which he states, among other things - I quote: "The Europe may be destroyed by its wealthy tolerance, freedom of mind and an excess of democracy against the invasive policies of other cultures welcomed as demographic support. All of this can mean the birth of the real causes of the decay of our ancient order, the source of decay and degeneration of long-term relationships. It will be like a breeding ground for the spread of invasive species, which will not only be difficult in the future, but also extremely costly to root out or at least neutralize. Let's remember the case of the Bolshevik." End of quote. About Mayor of Prague 8 for ODS Vladimíř Ludková on 30. 7. 2014 on the website Lightning was written in an article entitled Mayor banned the Muslim cemetery, where it compared Muslims to the fairy tales of O Smolíček to the pacholik, who feared the expansion of Muslim culture and society in Prague. At the end, I kept the deputy mayor of Brno-Bohunice for the ČSSD Milan Hrdlička, who wrote in October 2017 in a municipal newspaper called Our Bohunice column, when he compared Muslim immigrants to slugs with this text - I quote: "The slug will stop at nothing. There is no obstacle to it, no distance or location from which it moves to us. He's able to come up on his own, by car, by boat, by train, he's just able to get to us through every possible route. He must get to that promised land, where there is plenty of food and where he will feed on the work of others. Maybe it has a code in it that one day everything will turn around and they will become the masters of the world." End of quote. The picture of whether the entire case of Mrs Maříková is politicized, which I am convinced of, after all these examples, take your own. From a political point of view, the concept of "prejudice hatred" is also striking at the whole thing. This concept, as understood by the Ministry of the Interior, is explained in the Report on Extremism and Prejudice Hate in the Czech Republic in 2018. With its definition of this term, the Ministry of the Interior wanted to give law enforcement authorities an instrument to address cases in which they might be able to see an expression of extremism. Here I see a great risk of possible abuse, as it happened in this very case, Mrs Maříková. Finally, let me convey the opinion of the SPD MP on the request of the Police of the Czech Republic on the extradition of Ms Karla Maříková for criminal prosecution. On the basis of the facts described above and the fact that this was a free speech of a Member on the social network, which, among other things, was pointed out by the vast majority of colleagues across the political spectrum at the meeting of the mandate and immune committee, I recommended the SPD to vote against the extradition of Mrs Maříková for criminal prosecution, and I also voted on the mandate and immune committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u100	And now, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková and, lastly, Mr Klaus is on the list at the moment. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u101	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dear government, I was originally signed up with a factual remark when you were going to the Minister of the Interior, or some of them went to the Minister of the Interior, but my dear colleagues from social democracy did it more vehemently than I would probably have done, so I withdrew with a factual remark. But I will still allow myself to make three comments at this point in my proper speech. The first one. I remind you, and it has already been said several times that the Police of the Czech Republic are asking for extradition, not the Minister of the Interior. And as I know the Home Secretary, Jan Hamáček, with his political experience, believe that if he could even enter into this, he will not allow us to create the space that the SPD has created for this very political party today. And Jarda Foldyna is right that we can congratulate Mrs. Maříková on her great visibility. He's simply asking the police, the police are working under the authority of the state's attorney. So I am once again opposed to being associated with the person of the Minister of the Interior and with social democracy in particular. Note 2. I turn to those who so very, very easily use the labels of fascism, Nazism, that's how they refer to colleagues, co-workers. Please don't minimize the suffering and sacrifice of the 80 million people in both world wars. It is too serious for us to forget and so carelessly use these terms. And I'm going to add one more, because this is where the bonds were also said. It was European integration, it is the European Union that has fulfilled the legacy of the 80 million dead in the most effective peace project. More than three generations of people on this continent live in peace thanks to the cooperation of states in Europe, thanks to the fact that France, Germany and other founding states of European integration have managed to establish rules of cooperation. Even our high standard of living is due to the fact that we operate within the half-billion-dollar free market with the freedoms that belong to it. [[17.20 hours]] And that's the third point. There was talk about freedom of speech, about freedom, which is certainly one of the fundamental values for all of us in the democratic state in which we live and want to continue living. But that is precisely why, ladies and gentlemen, I have always voted in favour of the extradition of any member of Parliament, whatever it was in the Senate, whatever the reason for it was in the Chamber of Deputies. Because if we say that there is any danger to citizens, to restrict their freedom, to restrict freedom of speech, or otherwise, it is we who are to put ourselves at risk because we are to be seen. And we can see whether something like this can actually happen or not. An I.D. doesn't have immunity. Let's not hide behind her, either. I will therefore vote in favour of the issue, as I have always done. Because we're the ones who have to go to the market with our skin, for whatever reason. I am convinced that we are in a legal state and that it will prove true that the law enforcement authorities will work the way they are supposed to work, and the outcome will certainly be obvious, whatever it is. Thank you for your understanding and your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u102	Thank you. And now there are two factual points - first Mrs Maříková, then Mrs Hyťhová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to my previous speaker, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. You congratulated me on my visibility here. In my speech, I said that I owe the visibility to the Ministry of the Interior led by your minister, Minister Hamáček. After his report on extremism, where he introduced me, the media became interested in the case. So thank you and congratulate him. You're criticizing the fact that my colleagues across the political spectrum are criticizing the police's extradition request. You know, they don't object here, and I've also told your colleague, Mr Birke, that Minister Hamáček should perhaps influence the police. Here it is criticized that the Ministry of the Interior reported in its report on extremism to me when the case was only in the preparatory proceedings. And in this state, I suppose, we are a democratic country, still a presumption of innocence. And it's your minister, Minister Hamáček, who runs the ministry for the ČSSD. That's criticized here. The fact that the Ministry of the Interior lists persons and entities who have not been found to be guilty of any crime in its reports, namely the Ministry which reports it, is led by your Minister, Minister Hamáček. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u104	Thank you. And now, Madame. And Mr. Foldyna is reporting from a point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u105	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond, through Mr President, to Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, because I understand, on the one hand, that you are defending your Minister here. He's your colleague. I don't mind. On the other hand, based on a half-year report on the extremism of the Ministry of the Interior, this carousel has been launched, which we are discussing here today. So, based on this report by the Ministry of the Interior, the name of Mrs Karla Maříková was unlawfully given even though she is innocent. And as she mentioned here, there's a presumption of innocence. So please don't say here... I understand that Mr. Hamáček wasn't behind this, he certainly didn't write it. But his ministry is behind it. And in that report, that's how it's put it. So please don't manipulate the facts here. That's just a fact. Keep an eye on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u106	Mr Foldyna, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u107	Thank you for the floor. I agree with one thing with Mrs Gajdůšková. I will also issue Members if they are involved in crime, property crime, violent crime. But here we decide nothing but freedom of speech and democracy. This may not have happened here, for the existence of the new Czech Republic in the last 30 years we have never decided on Members, on the grounds that we are actually taking away his freedom of speech and political opinion. If we decide on any criminal case in the matter of violence or property, I will not perform here at all, although it can often be manipulated. But that's going to show up during the trial. That's what the police and the D.A. and the Justice Department are for. But this is where political matters are decided. And that's a significantly unfair thing to do. And I think we should all realize that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u108	Mr Bojko will vote with replacement card number 22. And I am inviting Mr Klaus, who is currently the last to be entered in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u109	Colleagues, I didn't mean to say anything, but some of the performances encouraged me a little bit. Mrs Gajdůšková, through you, you are a woman, so I will not attack too hard and personally, but I cordially wish you, once you are not a government official, so that someone does not tell you that he congratulates you on your visibility when you are prosecuted. A government Member who mocks the opposition lady of a Member, a nurse somewhere from Ostrov nad Ohří. That sounds very sad to me from a human point of view. And that's why I wanted to stand up for my colleague. That really wasn't appropriate. Second thing. Our Mrs Majerová has already said the position of the Tricolore. We'll vote against extradition, that's for sure. A very pregnant colleague of Pávek showed it to meritum things. Even if we all don't have to be lawyers for that, we can see clearly, here we are constantly wondering whether or not they belong to the Tatras, whether or not they are original, non-original, if the bear is to be planted again in the Giant Mountains, so that we have something to worry about when we go to hell. And, of course, the jokes or claims that humans, of course, are also a species of animals, so if it applies to humans. It's all over the Internet. In Mrs Maříková's statement, there was no hatred, no call for genocide, no such thing. It was an alert to this fact. And all of you who are a little decent people feel that there was nothing behind the edge or human decency, let alone criminal responsibility. Now, let's get to the point. This debate, please, does not have a great sense, because, as I hear from my colleagues, we will not give up the lady. But what does that mean? It means in a year and a quarter, when she's a nurse in Ostrov nad Ohří again, she'll be prosecuted. The water closes. Maybe even her motherly movement will be dealing with some other current political struggles here. So this is what we're gonna do? Or shall we say what it is, then, government? Then act! Are we the state of police colonels? Or are we a state that relies on democracy, MEPs and government on executive matters? So I, in addition to voting against Mrs Maříková's extradition, also allow myself to read the accompanying resolution, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies is asking the government to address the attacks of police and investigating forces on freedom of speech and the necessary explanation, namely in favour of freedom of speech." That's the end of the proposal. Because we see here, on the contrary, how the Ministry sets up new and new formations, sets aside the money that they are supposed to be spying on and watching the different Karla Maříková, who are still the nurse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u110	I would like to ask for the rapporteur's proposal and, where appropriate, its presentation in a detailed debate. There are now two factual remarks made electronically - Mr Španěl, Mrs Gajdůšková, then President Chvojka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u111	[[The MP is standing behind the speaker's desk with his mouth sealed and holding in hand a paper with the text of THIS CHUCKLE??♪ that points to all sides.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u112	Ambassador, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u113	I don't want this. Just a conclusion. We're not just defending Karla Maříková. We're defending the very principle of democracy, and we're just pointing out that somebody really stepped on a big... into a big pile of dung. [[Laughs in the hall.]] This debate couldn't be cut short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u114	Now, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, with a point of fact. After that, Mr Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u115	Just real quick. I am sorry if what I said about Mrs Maříková was perceived as a mockery. No way. I repeated what her honored colleague Jarda Foldyna said, and there's no way I meant it. And I'm sorry if that was understood.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u116	Thank you. I'd just like to point out that there's a prop left on the speaker's desk, virtually. A drape. So, please, Mr Španěl, don't torturing our infectious things here. And now, Mr Chvojka and then Mr Kalousek, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u117	Good afternoon, colleagues. I basically have notes two. The first concerns - I want to respond to my former colleague or still a colleague, but to a former colleague from Mr Jaroslav Foldyna's club through you, Mr Vice-President. Well, of course, in criminal law, crimes are criminal, and they belong to criminal law, which you can do with a word, they are verbal crimes. And I think they have their place in the Code of Criminal Procedure not only in the Czech Republic but also in other democratic legal states. These are crimes of defamation of a nation, race or ethnic or other groups of persons and others. That means these crimes have their place, and there's no point in talking about this place that it's never been here in 30 years. I almost think I do. You just have crimes of a different nature, and this is just one of those crimes, that is. Verbal crime. But that's just an observation of a rather academic nature. But then I wanted to ask, because I don't know if I've heard this, I haven't been here all this time, through the Vice President, if my colleague, Mrs. Maříková, and I don't wish any harm to anyone, and especially not to prosecute anyone, I don't wish to be published to anyone, nor to my archenemy. Because we've got two kinds here, let's say it's the extradition procedure or the non-release process. [[Time warning]] [[President Hanzel: Time for a point of order!]] I applied with priority rights!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u118	If you're with a priority right, I've now taken over the proceedings, so good evening and please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u119	Thank you. May I continue? We have two different attitudes or two different ways of going on. That means we have an example here, Madam President of the ANO Senator's Club, who was caught drinking while driving in the car. You said, "I want to be published." I want you to investigate me. Then we had different suspects here who just said, I want to be published because I think that eventually the police, prosecutors or in the finals will decide the court and show that I'm innocent, and eventually the authorities will be for those who are bad and unprofessional. This means that this is the first approach that is simply legitimate and that has been chosen by many Members. They said, I don't want to hide behind immunity, I just want to be released, given because it turns out I'm right, there's been a mistake on the part of the law enforcement authorities. And then they have butter on their heads. Authorities active in criminal proceedings. And there's been a lot of butter on his head. I'm very critical of some police and prosecutorial procedures. And then there's the other option, which means I just have to be published, I don't want to be issued because - for what reason. And I would like to know, Madame, if I may address you this way through the Vice-President, what is your position. I don't think it's spoken yet. How do you see it on your own terms of whether you want to be published or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u120	Thank you again and nice evening, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll recapitulate the situation. We are in a general debate. With factual remarks, I have three Members. Mr Miroslav Kalousek, Mr Josef Hájek and Mrs Karla Maříková, and with priority rights, Mr Radim Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just a very brief response to Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. I have no reason to doubt that you didn't want to touch your colleague. But I wanted to respond to another thing. You said that you would vote for the issue as always, because Members are no different people than the others. I'm sure you're right. If it was an act of property character or a violent nature, I wouldn't hesitate at all. But I would like to say this, and I am deeply convinced that if Mrs Maříková were not a Member, if she were a nurse in Ostrov nad Ohří, no one would have thought at all to initiate and prosecute criminal acts. And that statement that I might like or may not have, I'm not judging it right now, but maybe I wouldn't have said it, but I never thought it could be a crime in my life! And that really occurred to someone just because the Member is a Member. And immunity as an instrument is precisely here to protect Members from similar excesses of law enforcement authorities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u122	Thank you. Mr Josef Hájek, with a factual remark. Mrs Karla Maříková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm here for the second term, and I'm also learning over time. In my first term as such, I am the naive enthusiastic MP who went for the head, I will be honest, decent, etc., I gave Mrs Zuzana Kailová, a Member from the ČSSD. Three days ago, I received word from Mrs. Zuzana that after six years she was liberated. I'm happy for her from the bottom of my heart. And I've realized since then that we have a responsibility here. The responsibility to really think about whether we're going to hand this person over is not our responsibility. Then I apologized repeatedly to Mrs. Zuzana because it was a mistake on my part. And I follow the words of Mr Kalousek here, who has made this clear. If Zuzana Kailová had stayed somewhere on the edge or in the village, she wouldn't have been published, and when she became a Member, she would have been published. So from my point of view, I know Miss Karla, I'm sure I won't give her up. And I am also Chairman of the Czech-Polish Bilateral Group and in this connection I would like to thank our Polish friends that under the leadership of Jan Sobieský III. In 1683 they defeated the Turek at Vienna, and if it wasn't for his help, we wouldn't be here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u124	Next in line is Mrs Karla Maříková. Mr Patrik Nacher will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will respond to the question of Chairman Chvojka. You're a lawyer, I'm sure you know that, but I'm gonna repeat it for the public, who will listen to it, that if I'm not released, the prosecution will, of course, continue after my mandate. I said at the end of my speech, I made it clear that I would leave the vote on my extradition to you, and I will say here why. Because I think it is important for the public to see if its representatives in Parliament honor freedom of speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u126	Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher will make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I don't think we're doing very well today, from the start. First thing in the morning, we lose an hour and a quarter by discussing something that we'll place famously firmly. And now, for three hours, we've been debating something we know we're not going to give up the lady. Because it's just stupid from start to finish. I'm also the new MP here, I know how to distinguish the situation, when a politician is in a drunken state, commits an accident, so I'm gonna turn him in. If he's criminalizing the municipal politician, as it has touched the professor of Svoboda or my colleague Růžička, I haven't given him up, and I wouldn't give him up. And if it's a statement of opinion, I wouldn't give it up. Let it be proof that the mandate committee, as I have made sure, unanimously voted against. That means we've been here three hours, instead of reducing taxes and facilitating the construction of line construction, we're debating something that's clear. It's just that we're not gonna hand over the deputies. And then every other performance defending this absurdity will re-enlist five more people, so we'll never make it. So I'm gonna ask you, let's go to the conclusion, vote. We have important points. This is clear from the very beginning, as it will be shown by the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u128	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Radim Fiala. No, he's downloading it. Mr Chvojka has claimed priority rights, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u129	Thank you. For the last time today. I thought very well of my question, because I just remembered the colleague mentioned earlier, my ex, Zuzka Kailová, who was a good Member, and she actually extended the whole Martyrium by three years or three and a half years by not being published. In fact, only now two years, two and a half years after the election was cleared. That means, this might theoretically expect you to live in the media with the fact that you're not released, that when the term is over, you're going to face some kind of criminal prosecution that I think is on the water, and I'm saying that as a lawyer with a clear mind, or you're just gonna let yourself go, and you're done in six months. That's where my question was headed. I say that not being published may not always be beneficial for the Member. That's what I mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u130	Okay. [[Here comes the mop. Okamura.]] Mr Vice-President, with a point of order? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u131	Dear ladies and gentlemen, well, you've lost your temper in the ČSSD! [[Laughter.]] So you from the situation where your Home Secretary Hamáček, who is responsible for the police, is the person responsible Karla Maříková his ministry bring to the report about extremism, the person who is silent about it as president of the ČSSD, as a politician, can't say what they've basically said here to the microphone, that they don't agree with what's going on here, so you're still going to attack! This is the chairman of the ČSSD Chvojka Club still attacking our Member Karla Maříková! [[Laughing Members of the ČSSD.]] She's still interrogating her here, she's even counseling her here. You're telling her what to do and what to do. Like you, you should ask your minister why Minister Hamáček brings our Member, Karla Maříková, to report on extremism for condemning illegal migration and Islamisation. Minister Hamáček should explain that, we would all like to hear that. Why Minister Hamáček introduced a new concept of prejudiced hatred here during his work. That's what the public cares about, why they introduce these concepts here, and that's what you should be explaining! And that's where you should ask. So really the impudence of the CSSD that you're still turning it in a different direction, I really can't keep staring. The party that has prosecuted politicians, the party that even has closed its policies in criminal corruption, so you're still here to advise our Member, Karla Maříková, who is here, to be prosecuted because of the right statements, what else to do! Wake up already!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u132	My friends, at this point, I'm registering seven factual remarks. [[Laughter.]] So we have moved a great deal further and the first is Mrs Jana Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u133	Thank you. I, too, applied to the reaction to the chairman of the club ČSSD Chvojka. Through the Vice-President, my colleague, good advice on gold, but remember, I'm going to mention one name here, and by that name is Mrs. Vlasta Parkanová's name. It's been released. Nine years have been dragged into court, and to this day it has not been decided. So your perhaps well-meaning advice did not really fall on fertile ground in this regard, because it is not a guarantee of anything at all if the Chamber of Deputies had issued Mrs Maříková today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u134	Next is Mrs Jana Levová and Mr Ondřej Profant will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u135	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask President Chvojka how he actually advised our Member, or - well, he advised our Member that actually this prosecution is not even likely to happen after the end of the mandate. So I wanted to ask you to come here to explain why it appeared in the report on extremism. I wonder. Could you come and explain it to me? Thank you. Through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u136	Yes, thank you. Mr Ondřej Profant, Vice-President Vojtěch Filip will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I really did not want to perform, and I am really prepared not to vote for Mrs Maříková's extradition, but what the SPD colleagues and especially their chairman are doing here is appalling, and it really has nothing to do with the prosecution or any of this. The report talks about some social phenomena, and it doesn't have to mean that the person is being prosecuted, convicted, or anything like that. Extremism, of course, has many different forms, not all affected by the law. Please, let's not combine these things.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u138	Thank you. Vice-President Vojtěch Filip. I'll ask for peace in the courtroom so I don't have to interrupt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u139	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, it rarely happens to me that I agree with Miroslav Kalousek, but here I had to give him credit because when it comes to pure verbalism, that means verbal crime, so its intensity is distinguished. And I don't think we're judging anything here instead of a trial, here we're expressing whether an MP has the right to speak without prosecution just here from this counter or anywhere outside. And I am convinced that we have that right here as well as in our meetings with the citizens, and I am convinced that this debate is already redundant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u140	Thank you. Next is Mr Ondřej Veselý, Mr Marek Výborný will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will only respond briefly to President Okamura. He showed us how the SPD imagined freedom of speech. If we say anything, it's our sacred right. And you? He says to me, he doesn't like that you're not ashamed, you should shut up! [[Nesroz.]] This is the freedom of the word SPD! Freedom of speech according to the SPD is to speak what they like, but don't let others be silent. That is freedom of speech according to President Okamura!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u142	Thank you. Mr. Marek Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u143	Thank you for the floor. I would like to inform the public by your means to President Tomio Okamur, the SPD movement and that there is no ČSSD-KDU parliamentary club. Yes, there are two democratic parties - social democracy and KDU-ČSL. As you can see, we are on opposite sides of this House. Although social democracy has some historical experience with congruent conventions, it is not about to happen and it was indeed a mistake. Yes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u144	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Martínek, Mr Miroslav Kalousek will be ready. I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. I will read two apologies - Mr Lubomír Volný, who apologizes today from 17 a.m. to the end of the day for personal reasons and Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová from the meeting today from 17.30 p.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u145	I just want to say that I originally wanted to abstain in the vote on extradition because I think the accusations are excessive, but after the demagogy that the SPD members are doing here, when they're throwing groups of people together and saying that humiliating a group of people is actually normal, I'm gonna have to vote for the release. I don't know if you know the genocide case in Rwanda, but they also called a certain group of cockroaches, and then it cost almost a million people their lives in the subsequent genocide.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u146	Thank you. Mr Miroslav Kalousek and his point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u147	While we are here with each other, I will not resist reminding Mr Excellent that KDU-ČSL has experience with congruency conventions. [[Laughter.]] You, my colleague, may not remember this, but I was a delegate of the Czechoslovak People's Party of Josef Lux's assembly, which merged with the Christian Democratic Union of Jindřich Kabát and was formed by KDU-ČSL.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u148	Mr Lukáš Bartoň, please, is registered with a factual remark from the place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u149	Thank you for the floor. We've been discussing this on the mandate and immunity committee for a long time, so I didn't expect there to be so many hours of debate on this. I haven't seen so many members of the SPD perform in a long time. However, as has already been shown by the vote of the mandate committee, the pirát voted not to be published, which does not mean that we agree with that statement. I consider him stupid, perhaps as much as the idea of prosecuting the lady. I have also interpreted this to the Pirates MP with a recommendation not to be published. However, the debate, its progress and the statements in question have obviously convinced many of my colleagues otherwise, so it does not apply that I speak for the entire Pirates Club, I speak only for a certain part. And from the whole debate, I would also like to say that it was Mrs Maříková's wish on the mandate and immunity committee for her to have immunity to be prosecuted after the end of the mandate. So that's what we're doing -- that's just part of it -- and that's why I'm ready to vote not to. I would like to refer a little more to her opening statement, just as we have been here to the statement of Minister Schillerová. So I would ask, let us not insult Members, even if we read e-mails or other comments that have come to us. What you've read here about the SPD members, I would never allow myself to say to myself on a microphone. Please don't do this. It is you, through Mr President, who brought this statement here. I don't know how many people are gonna do it, and I wouldn't want him to sound any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u150	Thank you. I have one point of fact, and this is Mrs Karla Maříková. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will respond to my previous speaker, who here expressed my position on extradition to the immune and mandate committee. This is not the part where I said I didn't want to use the media popularity, as Mrs GajdůGajdůšková said here. Yes, I'm not hiding behind immunity because the prosecution continues after my mandate. And I also pointed out that this case really is so mediated because of these extremism reports that I'm afraid that there really would be a dangerous precedent that could one day be judged not only by you but also by the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u152	Thank you. At this point, I don't have anyone enrolled in the general debate. [[Member Marian Bojko is reporting.]] Mr. Marian Bojko. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u153	So once again, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to present the opinion of the three non-attached Members of the Single Movement. If I were in Mrs Maříková's position, I certainly wouldn't have been given up, either, because in the current state of our justice, no way. I'm just gonna read you something that I'm sure you all know. It's a statement from a politician from the so-called Democratic Party who received this statement - it was only recognised as a violation. And here's where we're supposed to publish - then you can consider it in the context I read to you. Martin Lang: "Zeman is the second Hitler and has to be cut like a bitch. Surely a person who doesn't keep deals and treaties can be called a treacherous pig, and decent people avoid such moral monsters. Adolf Hitler was such a moral monster. He didn't keep any deals and contracts. The Czech state, which will conclude a treaty and then use Parliament to break the treaty, has fallen to the level of a treacherous pig. Members who have raised their wicked hands for the approval of the law on the taxation of church restitution are stinking treachery pigs, not people, and are allowed to kill them. I am even convinced that such monsters must be killed so as not to infect the rest of the nation with their moral monstrosities. Stupid senile Bolshevik Zeman decided to sign the law and it is necessary to kill him, also ideally slash such a monster as an aged bitch and let him bleed and then burn. Moral monsters must be declared a fight to the death. It is no longer possible to tolerate the wickedness of stupid and all-powerful animals. It's not about money to churches, it's about the fact that it legitimized violations of agreements and agreements between people by its treachery of pigs, including the President. The president of the state sets an example for people that it is normal and completely natural, after being filled with one side, to unilaterally disregard the commitment. It's the same as when a worker doesn't get his hands on a salary or a businessman doesn't get paid. If there is no other right, such evil must be eliminated, it is necessary to cut off the heads and burn the shit that is left of the bearers of such evil." So that's a statement from the deputy mayor of the Prague organization. I'm not going to name them, I'm sure you know which one. And if this man has been misdemeanored for this, and we have been told x-times for what has been said here, we will be judging Mrs. Maříková, I certainly would not want to go into the hands of these courts. So our position is clear. I don't release Karla Maříková, and I understand her decision completely. I would declare this to Mr Chvojka through Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u154	I thank you, and although it was a quote, I would appeal, after all, not to advertise to these writers of various angry messages and express ourselves in a decent way in this courtroom. Although, as I say again, I know it's a quote you made. With a factual remark, Mr Marek Benda. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u155	Mr President, I volunteered - to some extent you said it yourself. But I think, regardless of the fact that it's a quote, you're supposed to just stop this speech in the House. There's no way to hide behind quotes and say such outrages here. If anyone writes them on Facebook, that's another thing. But I don't think it's really allowed in the House, and if we admit it, it's gonna go down and down and down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u156	I agree with this view. I think I have reacted in some way, and in the future, we really should not accept that we will be listening here even to a quote in this version. I don't have anyone else registered for the debate, not even with a point of fact. At this point, I am ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. [[Member Grospic: Yes.]] Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u157	I'm just very brief, ladies and gentlemen. This meeting of the mandate and immunity committee did not in itself arise because the request of the Regional Directorate of the Police of the Czech Republic of the Karlovy Vary Region came here. And I think that the discussion that we've been through here today, of course, reflected in the smaller meeting on the mandate committee as well. After all, even the outcome of the meeting of the mandate and immune committee, when all those present have reached agreement, to conclude that the verbal things of this type that have been said here should not be the subject that becomes the moment when individual Members are judged and will actually be interfered with in the freedom of expression and expression of their views. [[18.00 hours]] The mandate and immunity committee has reached its consensus, which will be interpreted to you by the rapporteur. It recommends not to proceed at the request of the Police of the Czech Republic and not to release Ms Karla Maříková to prosecute. koneckonců all, it was also said about the discretion of the statements and their proportionality, but it prevailed this clear view and I think it is necessary to say in the spirit of the previous speakers who spoke before me, that this is actually taking into account what has prevailed from the very beginning at the meeting of the mandate and immune committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u158	Thank you. The rapporteur - the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u159	Thank you. Then I will just introduce you to the motion for a resolution that we will vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u160	Sorry, I'm still... At this point, I would like to open a detailed debate. Mr Klaus had a proposal to make in a detailed debate. Is there a report? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u161	Yes, I am signing up for my accompanying resolution, or I think it is the only way to make something positive of the six-hour debate so that in some way the government acts as executive power, so that such things do not occur in the Czech Republic. So I'm applying to what I read here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u162	Thank you. At this point, I am ending the detailed debate. I'll ask if there's an interest in the final word. I ask the rapporteur to introduce us to the motion for a resolution and to the procedure for voting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u163	So one more time. It's okay now. So a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies, which we will be voting on for extradition. It reads: "The Chamber of Deputies, pursuant to Rule 27 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the European Union, shall be composed of Karla members. 4 of Act Maříková Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic On 19 March 1981, which was to commit an act of defamation of national and ethnic groups and incitement to hatred against the group." [[Nesroz.]] This resolution is contained in the material you have on your desk, the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee 131. In addition, I am just reminding you for the few times that the mandate and immune committee has not recommended the adoption of this resolution, and I add, for the first time in this parliamentary term unanimously. And then, after the decision, we will probably vote on the accompanying resolution proposed by Mr Václav Klaus, and the resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies is asking the government to address the attacks of police and investigative forces on freedom of speech, in favour of freedom of speech." This is the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Klaus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u164	There. I'm hearing an application for check-out, so I'm checking you all out, please sign up with your voting cards. Mr Miroslav Kalousek claims priority for the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u165	I'm applying to the procedure. I do not want to complicate this, but I suppose we will not accept the resolution, at least from the debate. And if we do not adopt the resolution, we cannot vote on the accompanying resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u166	We will adopt a resolution on the fact that we do not issue to the Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u167	No, Mr. Vice-President, that's the joke. We will not accept the resolution. By not adopting a resolution, we will not give up. And because... The resolution and the accompanying resolution shall be put to the vote only on the resolution which has been adopted. If we do not adopt any resolution, we cannot vote on the motion for an accompanying resolution. I'm absolutely sure of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u168	Well, I think... After the kind of mini-couple we had here, it will probably be as Mr Kalousek said. This means that we will not really adopt a resolution, and therefore we cannot adopt accompanying resolutions on an unaccepted resolution, logically. Please... Yes, you can. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u169	As I suppose from a formal legal point of view, that could be the case. By the way, we've been discussing two hours here. The result will be a decision. Yes, we will not accept the resolution on extradition. But I understand that Mr Klaus here is asking for a little extra, plus some resolution, where he calls on the government. It's a question of dispute. We can finally decide that in the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u170	There. At this point, we're debating the procedure. Mr Radim Fiala was signed in, then Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u171	Thank you for the floor. I, although we do not accept the resolution proposed by both the immune and the mandate committee, believe that we can adopt the accompanying resolution on paragraph 375 in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u172	Vice-President Filip. If... Sorry. Yeah, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u173	Thank you. It is our custom to adopt accompanying resolutions, but this is not according to § 63 para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (a) and other accompanying resolutions, but it is an additional or conditional proposal, i.e. at least possible, respectively. an additional resolution on this point which we have opened. So that's possible 63 par. 6. Yes, to point 375, there is an additional proposal made by Václav Klaus here, and we can vote on it, even if we do not adopt a resolution on the issue. She's not accompanying. This is the procedure under Section 63 para. 6.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u174	Mr Kalousek, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u175	That would be the case if the Member had put it that way in a detailed debate. But in a detailed debate, he proposed an accompanying resolution that cannot be voted on. But enough of the pussycats, let's decide the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u176	There. I'd take a break by 18.10 and we'll figure out how to proceed here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-011-375.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 6:10 p.m. I apologize for declaring a three-minute break, but after all, I wanted to prevent us from doing the wrong thing. I propose a procedure for voting on the motion for a resolution. After we adopt or do not adopt a resolution, we will vote on the motion for a resolution as an event. the additional order to point 375 under § 63 para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) a). Is that okay with that? I would have this procedure voted out. Who's up for a procedure like this? Who's against it? Voting order number 55, 165 Members and Members, for 128, against 3, abstained from 34. The proposal was adopted in this way. We will vote on the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee, which you all have in front of you on your benches. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 56, 165 Members and Members signed in, for 6, versus 137. The motion was denied. At this point, we would vote on the motion for a resolution on paragraph 375, which was proposed by Mr Klaus and read by the rapporteur. We know what we're voting on. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 57, 164 Members and Members signed in for 44, versus 9. The motion was denied. At this point, we've dealt with point 375. We will proceed to the discussion of the point
