ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u1	6. Government bill amending Act No. 289/2005 Coll., on Military Intelligence, as amended, and some other laws / House printing 800/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, may I present the draft law on Military Intelligence. The amendment complements the state defence system in response to real threats in cyberspace. The legislative proposal therefore addresses the possibility of an appropriate response and responds adequately to the State, thereby ensuring the defence of the state and its inhabitants. On the basis of this proposal, the State will be entitled to actively avert cyber attacks threatening its fundamental functioning and essence. However, defense cannot be exercised without the possibility to detect that a cyber attack is occurring or is imminent, and further without the possibility of identifying the attacker, or at least the source from which the attack is coming. On the basis of this law, Military Intelligence would acquire new tools to complement existing capabilities to detect cyber attacks. The law clearly defines both positively and negatively what these instruments can and cannot do. This is certainly not the case, and I would like to emphasise this, the area monitoring, but only the targeted detection of cyber attacks. New activities of Military Intelligence will be subject to control mechanisms guaranteeing compliance with legal constraints, e.g. the obligation to keep audit records on the operation of detection instruments which will be fully accessible to the control authorities. In addition to internal control, this activity will be subject to a system of so-called three-stage control, namely by the government, Parliament and independent control authorities. In addition to the above, the function of cyberdefense inspector will be a significant novelty for data management purposes. This will be appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Minister of Defence, after discussion in the Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies. This person shall be independent in the performance of his/her duties and shall be bound only by the legal order in his/her decision. Its primary task will be to supervise data protection and information processed by Military Intelligence and related procedures in the performance of cyber defence, including respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. Before submitting the bill to the Chamber of Deputies, the bill was consulted with all the members of the Members' Clubs represented in the Chamber of Deputies. During the summer, a common platform was established, where representatives of the private sphere, in particular the Trade and Industry Union (?), operators and internet providers. The conclusion is a consensual proposal that will be tabled as an amendment. As part of the committee's discussion, it will therefore be possible to resolve the selected provisions, which may have raised concerns, so that it is a modern legislation, which sets out individual roles for cooperation in defending our citizens. A sufficient space will also be devoted to the issue of control, for example, by the independent control authority, so that the institution is functional and still credible. The main objective of the proposal is to be able to respond adequately to real threats. I want to tell you that events from the last few months, e.g. The hospital in Benešov, unfortunately, proves otherwise. The purpose of the proposed changes is, therefore, in no way an effort to restrict the freedom of citizens, but rather their defence against attacks and threats aimed precisely at their fundamental rights and freedoms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u3	I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Josef Bělica, to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer briefly to the Minister, who has already presented the bill in detail. Ladies and gentlemen, as unfortunately we can be eyewitnesses at present, it is absolutely essential that the state be able to actively avert the most serious cyber attacks threatening the functioning of its critical infrastructure. However, this cannot be achieved without having the ability to intervene actively against such attacks. That is why I think it was necessary to prepare a legislative instrument that would allow this to be done, a legislative instrument that would enable the detection, identification and evaluation of cyber-attack and, above all, actively avert the most serious of them if necessary. This bill, which we are about to discuss, has been prepared by the Ministry of Defence, which has entrusted the authority to ensure state defence in cyberspace to Military Intelligence, including the establishment of external links guaranteeing the integration of this cyber defence into the whole context of the security and defence of the Czech Republic. Military intelligence has thus clearly defined activities related to the activities of the SAOKIB and other military, police and intelligence forces. Basically, it is the anchoring of the approval of Military Intelligence to communicate with operators and, if necessary, to place tools with operators that will target only cyber attacks and threats of the highest intensity. The proposal does not allow the use of tools for purposes other than the detection of an attack. Military intelligence will only intervene if the state is threatened, e.g. if people's lives are threatened because of the decommissioning of the IT systems of hospitals or power plants, and that is only if there is no other way and it will be necessary to act as quickly as possible. However, this is an extreme possibility in the case of the really most serious attacks and only in the case of compliance with the strict criteria laid down by law, following the consent of the Minister of Defence. Military intelligence shall also inform the Government, the SAO and other intelligence services immediately. In order to eliminate possible concerns about privacy and personal data breaches, the proposal also provides guarantees for their protection. When detecting and evaluating defined phenomena Military intelligence will have only metadata and thus will not monitor the content of communication of specific persons, but only signal certain precisely defined negative phenomena related to cyberspace. Last but not least, the proposal also provides for control mechanisms providing guarantees against misuse of such powers. The draft law provides for control by the Government, Parliament, in particular the Permanent Commission for the Control of the Operation of Military Intelligence, as well as independent control bodies. In addition, for the purposes of data management control, a new position of inspector will be created within Military Intelligence, which will be a guarantor for data processing and information. The bill is thus found constitutionally conformal. To the extent possible, it reflects the comments and requirements for the creation of a really clear and quality law that meets its purpose in a proportionate manner. I therefore suggest that we deal with the law and hand it over to committees for discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u5	I am opening a general debate in which I have three Members. Mr Pavel Jelínek will be the first to speak and Mr František Kopřiva will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to the Military Intelligence Act, which extends its powers to the field of cyber threat management, comes in another version. The previous versions didn't like it, and I also have major reservations about this one. For example, it is not satisfactorily explained why a few years ago the National Cyber Security Authority was created, which works, and suddenly another authority of state should have similar powers. This will actually create a two-track public power performance in the field of cyber security. The explanatory memorandum to the Military Intelligence Act refers to Government Resolution No. Regulation (EC) No 382 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2003 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 (OJ L 8, 12.1.2003, p. 1). In the framework of Military Intelligence, intelligence and counterintelligence are merged, and that is already a problem. New important competences are now to be added - cyberspace monitoring. In addition, the explanatory memorandum states directly that if it were necessary to focus on specific persons and their behaviour in cyberspace, this would be done within the scope of authorisation for intelligence technology as before. So there's no strict separation of information obtained in cyberspace monitoring from intelligence. As far as practical functioning is concerned, Military Intelligence will place special instruments in communication networks, which are designated as detection tools in the proposed draft law and which have been referred to as probes in the previous version of the proposal. However, this is still not an accurate indication of the function and ability of such devices. The law does not explain exactly what these devices will do. However, some legal entities providing electronic communications services fear that the detection tool can also be used actively, both to avert cyber attack and directly to such an attack. That is the power of the Military Intelligence by this law. The attack must be approved by the Minister of Defence, other authorities listed in the law will not know until then. Potentially concerned companies providing electronic communications are concerned that if the detection tool placed on them is used for cyber attack, it could even be disconnected from the Internet. Note that these companies provide internet connection for households and businesses. So this Internet connection would be compromised. It is also important to consider well what reasons would lead to a possible cyber attack. I believe that the risks here outweigh the profit. There is a simple technical possibility for the communication network operator to submit the data required by Military Intelligence itself, which would fulfil the detection function, based, of course, on an approved technical solution. A similar procedure already exists in practice in the communication record. Another major problem of the law is the control of Military Intelligence in its cyber threat management activities. It doesn't seem appropriate to me that the main control body for cyber threat control should be the Military Intelligence Inspector for Cyber Protection, which means only one person subordinate to the Minister of Defence. And the Secretary of Defense would be subordinate to both the controller and the controller. It would be appropriate for the handling of personal data, which may be considerably extensive, to be subject to the supervisory powers of the Office for Personal Data Protection, which is not foreseen by the law. Real control by Parliament is also uncertain. In fact, there are some vague wordings in the law that may result in military intelligence in cyber threat management succeeding in avoiding external controls. Finally, let us recall one more aspect concerning the fact that in the relatively recent past, even two former directors of Military Intelligence - Ondřej Páleník and Milan Kovanda were finally convicted. This also suggests that Military Intelligence should not be given greater powers than it currently has. The Freedom and Direct Democracy Movement will not support the adoption of this law. And maybe a little probe into your conscience. How many of you have an eTooth app installed on your phone? And yet it's an anonymous intercourse survey -- well, how many hands? I don't see many. It's better now, but it's still not half of it. And yet we want to support such a major breach of freedom in the virtual world. I'm making a motion to dismiss the bill at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u7	So it was Mr Pavel Jelínek and now Mr František Kopřiva will speak. Wait, but that's... [[Responses in the Pirates' desks.]] Excuse me? There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm just gonna tell my colleague Ferjenčík the fact that he wanted to mention that at the Pirate Club, we all have erouška downloaded. And so now I'm going to get to this material that we're discussing. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have been following this issue since the last parliamentary term when the amendment to the Military Intelligence Act was first submitted in 2016 so that it would fall under the table due to the wave. And in the current term, it is now the fifth version, if I count correctly, because the proposal went through constant development with our contribution, which is positive. I would like to begin by thanking the Director of Military Intelligence, General Beroun and his colleagues, for their helpful communication and constructive dialogue. It is also fair to say transparently that the Pirates consulted the representatives of the Confederation of Industry and Transport, the ICT Union, the Association for Internet Development, CZ.NIC, NIX.cz, IuRe, Brmlab, List and other independent experts. Of course, it is annoying that the state often fails to take advantage of the new possibilities offered by the Internet, and it is equally disturbing to underestimate the threats that are also being made in cyberspace. Unfortunately, it is becoming more and more obvious that states simply are not able to respond to dynamically evolving technological trends. It is definitely desirable that the Ministry of Defence's intelligence service constantly adapts to new challenges and can function effectively in cyberspace. And it is appropriate for an appropriate legislative framework to be set. So I'm sure it's a good thing that we're discussing this and that it might even move on after today. I would just like to say that I appreciate the Army of the Czech Republic and the Military Intelligence very much, they have my full confidence, and according to public opinion polls, they also have public confidence. And that's right. However, any legislation extending the powers of the State, let alone the intelligence services, must be thoroughly and critically assessed, especially when the proposal potentially affects the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. The core of this amendment lies in expanding the powers of Military Intelligence. That's why we've been so cautious from the start. The original version of 2018 contained really unacceptable provisions or vague wording on relatively serious matters. The proposal was intended to enable Military Intelligence to allow unspecified probes, so it was not certain whether they could read the content of the communication of users on the Internet in addition to internet traffic, which would indeed be a major violation of constitutional freedoms. There was also insufficient implementation of these probes into communication networks and cooperation with internet providers in the original design. The law newly allows so-called active interventions, which in exceptional cases is a legitimate requirement of Military Intelligence, but the original proposal for active interventions allowed to a rather extensive extent. It was also unclear whether the information obtained by the intelligence activities could be used in criminal proceedings. In order to address these shortcomings, the pirát have proactively prepared their own paragrafo versions of the incriminate parts. Furthermore, we have also focused on strengthening parliamentary control through the House Committee on the Control of Military Intelligence, which should go hand in hand with the extension of the powers of Military Intelligence. We have already sent our comments on the proposal during the inter-ministerial commentary procedure in March last year. Subsequently, we sent specific proposals to the Military Intelligence Ministry and the Ministry in paragrafo. In a similar vein, the Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Industry and Trade, Czech Telecommunications Office, Chamber of Commerce, Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, Office for Foreign Relations and Information, Security Information Service, National Office for Cyber and Information Security also sent their comments. Other comments there, I think, were made by the Ministry of Finance, the Czech Bar Association, the Office for Personal Data Protection and so on. I have to say that Military Intelligence gradually incorporated comments from both our and the other subjects, in some passages it was even directly inspired by our proposals. So with a slight optimism here today, I have to say that with every other version, we were moving in the right direction. The current version, which is not the one contained in this House's press, but the one about half a month old, is already reflecting all the fundamental reservations, and most of the partial comments, specifically the probes. These have changed, now called detection tools, but it is now explicitly stated that these devices can only read metadata, thereby ensuring that the detection tools can monitor the operation, but cannot read the content of user communications. Those detection tools are now defined as passive devices that should not jeopardise the infrastructure of internet providers or disrupt Internet traffic. Active interventions in communication networks have been given relatively clear constraints, so the risk of possible abuse or inadvertently overreacting is minimized. Finally, it is better to cooperate with internet providers, which sets up a fairly balanced relationship between Military Intelligence and those companies, so they should now be more in a partnership and should work together to ensure defence in cyberspace. So we are now in a situation where we are discussing the House Press, which corresponds not to the most up-to-date version, but to the outdated version of this March 2020 amendment, which does not fully address all these comments yet, although the observations itself have already been accepted by Military Intelligence. That is why we agreed at the seminar in the Chamber of Deputies in July this year that we will ideally present a comprehensive amendment at second reading across the clubs, updating this draft to the latest version, which is already acceptable, I think, for most of those stakeholders. We would also like to call on the Ministry of Defence to consider the adoption of an agreed opinion on this joint amendment. I'm assuming that we're going to be designing some of the little changelings from different clubs, but the really important things, that means the detection devices, how they're supposed to work, that they don't read the content of the communication, and some setting the limits to the active interventions, so that should include the complex design. Thank you very much to all those who took part in the roundtable in July, and I hope that we will succeed in this cooperation and the House will decide on this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u9	Mr Ondřej Profant will now appear and prepare himself as the last Member of Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u10	Dear colleagues, dear public, first of all, I would like to thank Military Intelligence, the Ministry and the Minister for Cooperation. I understand that the role of such a relatively public debate must have been very difficult and that the intelligence service is not built on this. However, it should be pointed out here that this is an area... that this amendment is intended to introduce horizontal measures that affect all citizens, not specific activities or a specific file, specific actions conducted but simply monitoring is general, and therefore it is necessary to discuss this in a slightly different regime than their normal operations. I know that the process of preparing this law has been very difficult. He was here in the last parliamentary term. He's been here a very long time now, and we've been discussing this for a very long time. The preparation was summarized by my previous speaker, but I dare say that this difficulty and lengthyness in the discussion was reflected in quality. I have to pause over the draft that's being presented to us. There were many problems. The definition of metadata, activity versus passivity of probes, that means whether or not the probes can confuse the contents. It was relatively invasive with connection providers. Large passages were active interventions that were not very defined and whether probes could be used for them. Also for us the big question in the first versions was control, both internal and parliamentary. And the question being discussed was damages. [[17,00 hours]] I very much hope that we can throw away this version and not think about these comments, and we can talk primarily about the version of 16. 9. which we have at our disposal and which may therefore be the content of a comprehensive amendment. I'd like to ask the minister here if he could say it on the microphone with the new version, and that he supports it so that we can all be sure enough. In this new version, we have only completely partial comments left. The inspector is very well defined at the checkpoint. We have questions about his appeal, his appeal, and under what circumstances. I am very pleased that it is quite clear in the legislative text that the probes are some extreme solution and that the preferred one is classical cooperation on the basis of the contract, which I think will suit those subjects more effectively, and they are more accustomed to it. Thanks to the fact that they work together on the basis of the contract and the probes are the ultimate solution, the damage compensation is also very considered because we were primarily afraid of it when using the probe. As far as data collection is concerned, we thank you for the quality definition of metadata. Indeed, it is that the Military Intelligence actually collects netflow, which we think can be useful to his work and that it should not be so that our intelligence service will be blind. Of course, the reservations we had remain there, or my concern is from some false flag operation, i.e. Operation under false flag, when we as the Czech Republic would take an active action against a false target, and since it would already be a military intervention, it could have some sort of convention. Here we simply have to rely on the adequacy and reasonableness of both the intelligence and the ministry that confirms such an operation, but it should certainly be said that this is some kind of vector that we have to protect ourselves from, and it would be very stupid to jump on something like this. In conclusion, I really commend the patience and negotiation of the Ministry and especially the Military Intelligence, which really had to transform itself a little bit and it had to be very unnatural for him. And I'm just gonna ask the minister if he can confirm the new version, but he's counting on it to be a draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u11	Mr Leo Luzar will now appear and prepare Mrs Jana Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, allow me also to comment on the proposal of the Military Intelligence Amendment for the KSČM Club. As has already been said here, it is a law that did not have it easy at the beginning. The Ministry has given itself the hard part because it has submitted a proposal that has come across great opposition from both the professional public and the lay public in the preparation of this material. Unclear terms, unclear definitions and confusion of handling those data that would have been adequately obtained, postponed this material and remained under the table for a long time, as they say. Now here comes the version, which I had quite a comprehensive speech to, yet my previous speaker, speaking about a complex amendment in some form, which actually, as he said, and now I will not quote precisely, this proposal, which we are about to discuss, postpones and throws under the table, and actually there is something completely new here, and I do not have the proposal available. So I don't know what I'm supposed to say at first reading. If I assume the procedure suggested by fellow pirates here, it means that at first reading here we will talk about something, then we will throw it away like this, we will burn the stenographs - records because they will be unnecessary, by second reading will be submitted a completely different proposal, or a comprehensive proposal amending the nature of this law. I am able or willing to accept these procedures sometimes when it comes to laws that are generally beneficial to society, under distress, under distress, in kind, but not in this particular case in such a long-term law, such a long-awaited law, to renegotiate something completely different from what we have here. That is why I would like to propose that this law be returned to the petitioner and presented to the honourable House already in the complex amended version, if the Minister so requests. In other words, if they agree that this law, which is now on the table and which I am debating, will be revised by the comprehensive amendment, then I am making a motion to return the petitioner for work or for work. But if it doesn't, of course, depends on the petitioner, then I will discuss the material I have before me, and I will expect the Minister's response. So the material that we have, or the material that we have, is the printing of 800 at first reading. They've changed from the original definition significantly, thank you for that, a lot of unknowns remain on the other side. The unknown that remains is who everything in the Czech Republic will defend the Czech Republic within cyberspace - Minister. We have a specialized office here - the National Cyber Security Authority, and this is an office that has the right to defend the Czech Republic against cyber attacks by virtue of its function. And it's not that they're not. We were exposed to cyber attacks, our medical facilities were exposed to cyber attacks, and many citizens of the Czech Republic were attacked by cyber attacks, many even had to pay ransom. They're different mafia and blackmail groups building cyberspace in their business. All of this should be secured by the National Cyber Security Headquarters as a civilian body operating in some space, cyberspace, and should have all possibilities of monitoring and functioning within cyberspace. Am I wrong? I'm wrong that this office should have information about what's going on in cyberspace? Should he honestly monitor all those flows and guard those strikes that come within the network? Or are they other attacks and other networks that will be monitored by Military Intelligence? I don't think so. I assume that's one network. So now we're going to have Military Intelligence, which works in some space, and if I'm figurative, there's going to be one black box of SACUIB, the other black box of Military Intelligence, maybe we'll see the third black box of BIS, maybe the fourth black box of classical law enforcement agencies, if they're gonna set up wiretaps and other stuff. This remains unclear. In this proposal, it is said that Military Intelligence is ready to provide synergies in the implementation of activities involving State defence in cyberspace. In other words, it admits that the collected information it obtains can be provided further. I appreciate that it is written, under what conditions, it means it must confess to it etc., to whom specifically, what seconds, the times it passes. But I'm still missing the point of having an office here to have these things, to establish that authority to Military Intelligence. Or let's turn it around and say yes, military intelligence is responsible for cyber security in the Czech Republic, comprehensively responsible, and then the SAOKIB will only take over this information and deal with the possible civilian issue. Because I don't believe that it's possible to distinguish from the first data or from the first signals on the network what is a civilian attack and what is a military attack. What has the civilian character of blackmailing a user, or a massive attack, overloading a network and others, or what has a specific military purpose. It's going to overlap at some point, it's going to double at some point. [[17.10 hours]] That is why I am not sure whether it is right to allow this power for more organisations. Then we should agree whether it's Military Intelligence or the SACCIB. But not in this context, as the law is designed. They're both in it, actually. And now there's a cyber attack, he's coming from abroad, he may even be a military foreign subject, but he's going to be attacking a civilian object, like a hospital. Which one of these two authorities will take the initiative? Will it be the NÚKIB that intervenes and becomes active? Or is it military intelligence? How will these two authorities communicate with each other? Each has a different command, each has a different structure. This law doesn't solve it at all. And I consider it quite serious that information and the possibilities of defence against this attack should also be clearly given in this law with competence, which means who will intervene. Will it be the SACUBI or Military Intelligence? Another matter which I consider to be unclear and which I would like to make in the possible amendment to this proposal, now I do not know how the Pirates' amendment will be shaped, there has been talk of control and of a man, so to speak, not of the law, but of a regulation that will be subject directly to the minister and who will be a control person without whom the Military Intelligence will not be able to take any action. But he'll be a soldier, he'll be a chosen soldier in the same management system. And I'm not sure that the independence declared by this law is just a declaration of independence. Here I would welcome it if such a person should already be a civilian person, to be a person outside, to be chosen by the President of the Republic or by the House as a control person, a supervisory authority to guard these matters. Of course, it will have all the clearances that this function would require. But it would at least be from this point of view, so it wouldn't be small houses and sweeping under the table of problems that might arise under this law. And that problems may arise, he also predicts this proposal that we have before us. The proposal states that it is unacceptable to collect civilian data, that it is unacceptable to manipulate them, but it also speaks of the fact that, if this happens by chance, it is an obligation to warn this person and tell the Minister that he should make amends, or that he automatically predicts that this will happen, in this proposal, which I think is right that he can respond to things that do not expect to happen, on the other hand he opens up doubts about this law. I'm not going to go into technical matters about the fact that we don't actually know what's going to work in that black box. Here we talk mostly about passive detection, i.e. traffic monitoring, but even active functions are allowed, which means active action within the network. I think it's justified. Why would soldiers have guns if they didn't want to use them actively? It's logical. On the other hand, I ask how far we will be familiar with these issues in the context of democratic processes in a time of peace. I'm not talking about an emergency, a state of emergency, and other matters, where it's quite clear, and it's legal. But at present, at a time of peace, as we will be informed that something like this is happening. Here is this information barrier also from this proposal, which here is obvious. The last thing I want to stop at is the petitioner's access to the operators, if I call it that, to the providers. The whole material is only mentioned at one point about the obligation to allow the installation of a precisely defined black box into a defined place. The map is to be approved by the government as part of its management. I don't suppose there are experts in the government who, until then, would be able to decide whether or not this point is yes, but it will be related to the Military Intelligence Service, which will submit a map and just get it approved, in a way, everyone will believe it. But there remains an open question of what it will do to the technology of the network. That's what I asked the operators, I had the opportunity to talk to them multiple times, and they just shrugbed their shoulders: We're able to secure network passability, secure network security, we're able to secure the network itself, which serves for electronic communication, but we can't guarantee when there's a device that we don't know what's inside. - That's logical, technically logical, and it's hard to find an argument to disprove it. On the other hand, we want these operators to guarantee speed to guarantee quality. We are not now in a counterproductive relationship when we have one state office - the Czech Telecommunications Office, which insists on respecting certain parameters of the network and transmission and speed parameters and others, even under great sanctions and threat until the withdrawal of the license, and on the other hand, we will have an office - Military Intelligence - which will have its black boxes located somewhere, and I can vividly imagine what the operator will do if he is threatened with a penalty that will not comply with the prescribed parameters of the Czech Telecommunications Office, he will say: I have nothing, I have it certain, but the black box that is somewhere there, it certainly does. And at that point, any sanctions that might even be justified will end with the unexplained of these two approaches to technology and to secure it. This would be a question that I would really like to know how this will be handled legislatively in the future, any such disputes between the Czech Telecommunications Authority and the operator, when this will be placed on the network, how this will be approached. Or it should already be treated in this bill, because here we are talking about compensation, it is here, but only in activity, not in normal passive control, and certainly not for fines that the Czech Telecommunications Authority can determine to the operator for insufficient network parameters. This is what I would expect to see in this proposal, too, so that we do not put two authorities, on one side of the Czech Television, on the other side of Military Intelligence, into a decisive role, to argue with each other about who is right. So much for my longer performance. In any case, I would be happy to have the Minister say what is going on with the comprehensive amendment that is being prepared. If such a proposal should be and the Minister is to sign up to him as Minister responsible for the presentation of this material, then I suggest that this material be returned to the petitioner and presented in a form with which the Minister agrees. If this is not the case and we will continue to do so, please consider this proposal irrelevant. On the other hand, I wonder, after experience with various wiretaps, that Julian Assange might be able to talk about what it's like to get to data that don't really exist, no one knows them, nobody knows them, and yet they're moving the world, and he's being punished for it, and he's in danger of life or even multiple death sentences if he's being released to America. What it would be like to participate in the preparation of such a law, and what measures it would take towards the services they have with data and information from free networks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u13	I have two factual points here. So Mr Robert králíček will be the first to speak and Mr Ondřej Profant will be prepared. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u14	Good afternoon or good evening. I would like to respond to some of my previous speaker's things. I will not respond to everyone, because I would have been here for a long time, but I am surprised by his reason for the motion to re-work just because someone said that this was a complex amendment. It will be a standard amendment, which we propose dozens in other laws. Here in this law, it's all of a sudden a problem. Some of the discussions are simply going through development. And we will be submitting a standard amendment. There is no big complex that would fundamentally change the novel. These are minor modifications and explanations. First of all. Two. I don't know how my previous speaker came to believe that some two authorities should overlap. The division is clear by law. NÚKIB is in charge of security and supervision, military intelligence defense and crime has NCOZ. There is no overlap, those competences are clearly given and this law is just dressing us up, because at present we are naked against cyber attacks. And if we do not accept this law, even with any amendments, we will not be able to defend ourselves. [[17.20 hours]] And asking for the definition of a device, it's like I wanted the military to clearly define the composition of a BVP or a tank. Then I can just tell those enemies how to attack and where the vehicle or the box has its weaknesses. In some cases, some things are classified precisely so that the opponent can't read them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u15	Now I have two factual points. Mr Ondřej Profant will be the first to speak and Mr Leo Luzar will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u16	Thank you. I'll see Mr. Luzar. In the new version of the amendment, it is explicitly mentioned that this intelligence can decide to transmit information to CERT, a civilian body informing about cyber security, a standardised procedure that is used by both the private sphere and the public sphere. And I think that's very good. This is extremely important because many threats are simply general, we know clearly about them and need to know about them. Cyber security only works on the principle of openness. Once someone's trying too hard to hide something in there, it doesn't work because then the systems won't be set up. And if these systems don't set up against a specific threat, they're vulnerable to it, like we've seen in our hospitals. I agree that, of course, any hardware blackbox is a problem. That's why I said I wanted to say it's like the last chance. And I would certainly like any probes and hardware in the state's critical infrastructure to be open to hardware. And I will be happy to enforce such laws with colleagues from the Communist Party to use open hardware, which we will really have under our supervision, and not someone else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u17	Mr Leo Luzar will now make a point of fact. So far, the final application for de facto. And then Mrs Jana Černochová will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u18	Thank you for the facts. Mr President, by your help to my colleague Králíček. I don't think we've heard each other. I said that if there is a proposal from the Pirate Party for a comprehensive amendment that changes the nature of this law, as my previous speaker said, that the law that we now have can actually be postponed, because it will be working on that comprehensive amendment. If that's what he really is, then my proposal is quite logical, especially since this law has been here for so long. In other laws, yes, I understand, there may be reasons for such conduct - for the sake of time and others. But in this case, it's not. That is why I repeat, I am making a motion for a re-evaluation if such an amendment exists. And I don't know because I haven't seen him. And I suppose the Minister will explain this to us in his speech. As far as cooperation is concerned, I welcome this, of course, because this is an issue that is apolitical. This is a topic about information and information management. And if I hear here that there are the authorities of the state responsible for cyberspace security, and actually we, when we finally have security, because this Military Intelligence is the final, the best, the last, as my previous speaker, Mr. králíček, said, so I'm asking, what were the institutions doing before us, the other two that have been appointed here to supervise and control? And again, how does he know from the attack? After a few hours, he says, "Oh, it's military," so he calls the soldiers, come take over. Or the soldiers will say, "Oh, it's civilian, you'll take care of it." The cooperation of these bodies does not come from this law at all and we do not know who will have the authority and decide whose task it is whether it is defence or just monitoring. How will this be distinguished? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u19	Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to begin by saying what the attitude of the Civic Democrats' club will be towards this amendment. I must say that I know, and not only I, but also those of you who were in the Chamber of Deputies during the last parliamentary term, that the original proposal has made really big changes. The fact that at the end of the last parliamentary term, the Minister, then Minister of Defence, Stropnický, the chairmen of political clubs, plus the relevant experts, could not actually justify why we should have such a law is a bare fact. I think we've shifted considerably over this period. And I would also like to join in thanking both the Military Intelligence and the Ministry of Defence, because the meetings we had on this subject, when we discussed exactly what Mr Luzar is asking for questions, have already been over. Perhaps I would sigh a little bit about why some Members from one club are not talking to each other, because I am sure a colleague from the KSČM, who is working in the Defence Committee, Mr Alexander Černý, knows what our comments were, what we wanted to correct, what we wanted to do to be completed there. And I'm sure he would have provided Mr. Luzar with that information. I would also like to sigh, colleagues, go to the seminars that we hold in this Chamber of Deputies which concern the issue that is essential. I do not question the importance of this subject. Here were several seminars on this topic, where again all the questions that were raised here were answered by experts. So even this one's already been discussed. Finally, I would like to say that certainly the citizens' democrats will not join the motion to veto the law or support a re-evaluation at this point, because we believe that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u21	I will ask for your peace, honourable Members. I just want to point out that I don't have a veto proposal here. I have a motion to dismiss. But that's just for the record.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u22	You have a motion to dismiss and a motion to revise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u23	Yes. But not for the veto, because it takes two clubs for the veto just to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u24	Yes. So our club won't join these proposals because we don't think there's time to waste any more time. There are attacks on hospitals. There's been an attack on the embassies. There are attacks on the Office of the Government. There are attacks on various ministries, such as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And these are all things that we should keep in mind and we should try to treat them in that law so that we can eliminate them. Of course, we can never make such a thing happen. If someone invented a genius model, it's really at the Nobelův Prize. And there's no one like that. But we should certainly, as legislators, strive to have the opportunity to avert these attacks in our legislation. The ODS will certainly be interested in committee members - and I would ask the Minister of Defence to find out about this information - how it will actually be in this government with the so-called two-step control, because my colleague Luzar, too, and I agree with him, has asked here who will guard the guards. And here in 2016, with great fame, when Prime Minister Sobotka was, we passed the so-called two-step intelligence control law. Colleagues, colleagues, the year is 2020, we are de facto in its final part, and this two-stage control is still not fulfilled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u25	Madame, we've been changing here, so we couldn't exactly respond. But I will ask the House for peace. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u26	So the double-step check is still not complete. I would like to know the Prime Minister's position, one of the ministers, ideally the Minister of Defence, the Interior Minister, justice, so how about this double-step control. Do you have the ambition to submit an amendment to the law during this parliamentary term? Because it was the ODS, and it was Marek Benda, who repeatedly pointed out here that the criteria for selecting people who would follow the two-stage control are de facto unrealistic, that there are not 100 people with PT clearance, who are also over 40 years of age and who are graduates of some of the law schools, state law schools. So these were the comments we had here, you promised to try, like the government coalition back then. We are four years away from this law and we have no control. So I think this is the way to go in the right direction - I follow what Mr Luzar said here, that we really should want to hear from government officials here, what ambition they have to do with this control. If the law that has been passed here cannot be fulfilled, present in the accelerated proceedings its amendment, so that the mandate of all of us Members and Members may actually end in this parliamentary term by fulfilling what we have already taken in the last parliamentary term, so that we do not really be ridiculous. So we should certainly give the intelligence services the authority, but at the same time we should regulate the law on the two-stage intelligence control so that this control can finally be implemented and fulfilled. Then I think that many of you who had any doubts here will be much calmer. Otherwise, my colleagues and I were discussing whether we were going to propose a reduction in deadlines. I don't think that is necessary, because if the first reading passes today, the Defence Committee is meeting on November 4th, where we would place this item, so that we can finally approve this bill for the Defence Committee on 18 November and we have this law being passed by the end of the year. At the same time, I would like to ask, because the possibility of this control is really important to us, it has been borne by the discussional contributions of both colleagues from the SPD and colleagues from the KSČM, but also from colleagues from the Pirate Party, if the Minister knows how it will be with the two-stage control, he could respond. Even with Mr. Chairman of the Permanent Committee on Military Vít, we have adopted some resolution on this permanent commission, which we have been heading to the Prime Minister, so that the Prime Minister, who is in charge of the government, may decide what we will do with this standard, which has not been fulfilled. And I am not opposed to the fact that we may be able to read an amendment or actually discuss the proposal further in the '90s. But it is important that we avoid all possible question marks that have been accompanying this law for the fifth year. Of course, these are questions not only for our Members and Members, but also for journalists. So I'm sure the Minister and us, as members of the Defence Committee, will argue better if we say yes, the authority will rightly have military intelligence, but at the same time there will be some control that will actually work, from an independent authority. If I can still respond a little bit to Mr Luzar. I, too, asked myself a few questions that were related to why it should be Military Intelligence, not the SACCIB. I also asked the former director of Mr Navrátil today, but also the current director of the SAO. The SACCIB has a different legal role. It's just not possible to mix these things. It would be possible if we núkib away the other authority that he has under the law. But it can't be a methodology at the same time and at the same time implement those when I say it simplisticly, attacks. That's just not possible, because they'd lose a whole range of clients who have, like, a methodical institution. The only option here is to give that authority to Military Intelligence, to set up another office. Colleagues, colleagues, civil democrats would be the last party in this Chamber of Deputies to suggest such a thing. On the contrary, we believe that we have more than is strictly necessary for these authorities. But we also discussed this in the course of those seminars, within the Committee on Defence. I would perhaps recommend to the Minister when he formally sends us the comprehensive proposal, and it will not be the pirát' proposal, but it will be a proposal that will be made by some group of Members, I suppose, or if it will still be withdrawn in the process, it depends on the Minister who will choose the medium for the comprehensive amendment, so I would ask the Minister to send this proposal to all club representatives, ideally whether it is members of the Defence Committee or the Security Committee, it will certainly reach those other colleagues who are interested in this topic. At the same time, I would like to mention here - and perhaps not angry with me when I say this on a microphone - but on the defense committee, General Beroun offered to members of the defense committee or their experts, their experts, that he would meet with anyone who had any questions, who had some uncertainties, who would like to know exactly the things that were being said here, and give a relevant explanation. We met several times for the Civic Democrats' club. The pirates here also said they met like this. I would recommend that the representatives of the SPD or the representatives of the KSČM meet with the representatives of the Military Intelligence Minister in this way and that these things be discussed so that we can really fulfill what we have said here - and hopefully we are all in agreement - that we would really like the Czech Republic to have a legislative standard that would prevent these attacks, to have it and to have it ideally by the end of the year. Since we will not, ladies and gentlemen, lie about what we will not discuss by the end of this year, this will be difficult to discuss in those few months, which will then divide us from the proper term of the elections to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u27	Thank you, too. Have a nice evening, dear colleagues. I have two factual points here. The first is Mr Pavel Jelínek and Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u28	Thank you for the floor. I've only had a short time. When Professor Máca has always told me before my university work, my colleague, you have the idea that everyone who listens to you has the same penzum of knowledge. I do not want to reduce the knowledge of the information technology of individual Members, but if we have the idea that these blackboxes, which will be bought to watch traffic on the Internet, will prevent the infected email from being in the hospital, then we are very naive. I understand how this could prevent long-term mining of an email server in a ministry. But also after a while. They're also not actually able to track people, they'll always be watching some robots. Someone has to set them up. By the time they're set up, there'll still be these leaks. I simply believe that both this law and the funds spent and the release and essentially the loss of some freedom on the Internet will not pay off in this case. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u29	Thank you. Another in order to make a point of fact is Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I would take the liberty of responding essentially to Mrs Černochová. She basically mentioned that it would be good if the representatives of the KSČM club met with Mr. Brigadier General Beroun and talked to him about the matter. So I would like to inform you that the representatives of the KSČM met with him, then discussed with the Minister, and that is why we may be discussing this point today. We are prepared - at least I speak for myself now in this situation - to admit second reading, where we can discuss this at expert level - at expert level - and we can adopt amendments, because the Minister may have asked for this point eleven times, perhaps twelve times, within his mandate, and failed. So by acting today, believe me, it has moved on thanks to the very meeting of the representatives of the KSČM club with Mr. Brigadier General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u31	Thank you. They are not factual, I do not have anyone registered electronically or from the place in the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in the Minister's final words. Yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would have responded to a few things on this occasion. I want to confirm immediately when I myself took part in the negotiations on the preparation of the amendment. I would really like to point out that this is not a comprehensive amendment, but the amendment will merely specify the proposal put forward and does not change it in any way in terms of content, only to supplement it. There's a whole bunch of things that I'd like to respond to. On that amendment - it will be discussed in detail on the Committees, where, of course, there is room for this debate. Then there may also be negotiations on the upcoming changes that this law should bring to the Committee for the Control of Military Intelligence. Including the upcoming amendment, we have been discussed with all representatives of the MPs, outside the SPD, to be absolutely precise. Furthermore, I would like to respond, although my previous speakers have already responded to this, the SACCIB supports this bill and takes it as a complement to the system against the most serious attacks from abroad. I will not be here again and again explaining cyberspace, distribution and in the individual gestures of the individual authorities, as they are in charge, that has already been said here again, and that is exactly what needs to be understood. And then there were, let's say I call it inaccuracies to passive detection. There is no way that people or information will be monitored. Passive detection will only capture predictable attacks. And as far as specific, it will be monitoring, metadata, not monitoring the content of this data. There was also information, doubts from operators. I have seen the minutes and conclusions of the negotiations, when operators expressed their support for the discussion with the Confederation of Industry. Then, of course, there was a reminder from the Chair of the Defence Committee of Mrs Černochová on the two-step control. I fully share this view and, of course, I am ready to participate in the rapid adoption of the amendment, which will, of course, clarify this area. Madam, honourable Members, you with a long history of being here in the past, remember that the first start was in 2016, when this law was submitted, and it was not discussed at that time. This law, which we are presenting, has indeed been discussed in detail and in the long term not only in the parliamentary clubs, not only within the framework of state organisations but also with non-state organisations, and I think we have reached a good consensus proposal when I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u33	Thank you. Is the rapporteur interested in the final word? Yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll be very short. There was a lot of information in this debate. As the Minister said, many of them were inaccurate. I was wondering if I could respond to Dr. Jelínek, who was talking about some kind of penzion of knowledge. I'm afraid I don't want to dive into this discussion and discuss the details. I don't know where you come up with those blackboxes you're knocking around, but you'll be able to get an update on that during the debates and during the committee discussions. I would just add that I agree with the Minister that I am convinced that there are not many laws which are presented to this Chamber of Deputies that would be discussed in such detail and quality by the petitioner, which is the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u35	Thank you. We have two suggestions for rejection and return. I've called the MPs. There's an application for check-out, so I'm checking you out. Please sign up with your voting cards and we will vote on a motion to reject this law. I repeat, we will vote on a motion to reject this law. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 35. Registered 88 Members, for 15, against 42. The motion was denied. We will also vote on the recovery of the proposal. I hereby initiate the vote to refer the proposal to the appellant for completion. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 36. Registered 89 Members, for 16, against 43. The motion was denied. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the motion submitted for discussion of the Defence Committee as a guarantee committee. Someone is suggesting the commandment to another committee as a guarantee. I can't see, so let's vote. I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 37. Announced 90 Members, for 88, against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Defence Committee as a guarantee committee. [[17.50 hours]] The Organizing Committee has proposed to order this proposal to the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies to control the activities of Military Intelligence. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? Mr. Marek Benda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u36	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that we order this to the constitutionally-legal committee as well. I think that this is not just a question of defence, but it is a question of protecting data about a large number of subjects and that it needs to be viewed not only in terms of defence, which I fully understand and respect, but also in terms of the rights of each individual. So I suggest we order the Constitutional and Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u37	Yes. Member Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u38	Mr President, let me also propose a commandment to the Economic Committee, as we have operators and the Czech Technical Institute in our IT Commission, and we are discussing with them the possible risks and possible debates about improving the network, so we would like them to be able to comment on the intervention that I believe is at risk of installing these cabinets here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u39	Thank you. Mr Kobza. Yes, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, given that the main focus of the work of Military Intelligence is abroad, I suggest that this be directed to the Foreign Committee as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u41	Is there another motion on the commandment of the committee? I can't see. So we will vote on the commandment of the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies to control the activities of Military Intelligence. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 38, 90 Members signed in for 89, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, we will vote on the commandment to the Constitutional and Legal Committee. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 39, 90 Members registered, for 85, against no one. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, the commandment of the Economic Committee. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 40, 90 Members registered, for 13, against 45. The motion was denied. The last vote on the commandment of the Committee to the Foreign Party. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 41, registered by 91 Members, for 18, against 44. The motion was denied. Yes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u42	Mr President, I am only voting for the number 35 vote - I voted no, and I have a yes at the junk. I'm not questioning the vote. I'm asking for a fix. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u43	Okay. Thank you and I note that we have ordered this press to continue with the permanent commission of the Military Intelligence Commission and the Constitutional and Legal Committee. This is how we dealt with this press. With priority rights, Mr Member, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u44	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I assume that this will not be necessary, but on the basis of Section 53, I propose a meeting and a vote after 19 o'clock at the request of the Pirates Club and the ANO Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-006-006.u45	So, we will vote on the procedural proposal so that we can negotiate and vote after 7:00. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 42, 90 Members signed in, for 67, against 14. The motion was accepted. Next, we'll discuss the proposal.
