ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-014-200.u1	200. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Treaty between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Republic of Botswana on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income taxes signed in Pretoria on 29 October 2019 /German press 671/ - first reading I ask the Prime Minister and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová to give the opening statement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-014-200.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, a double taxation treaty with Botswana, signed on 29 October 2019 in Pretoria, is now being presented at the meeting. This is historically the first double taxation treaty with Botswana. The foreign policy of the Czech Republic aims to develop mutually beneficial economic relations between countries. The conclusion of this international tax contract follows the intention to limit the tax burden on business entities when excluding unwanted international double taxation, which normally occurs without the existence of a tax contract in international economic relations. There is therefore currently a non-contractual relationship between the Czech Republic and Botswana in the mutual tax relations, and the existence of a double taxation treaty is certainly necessary for the function of tax relations and the development of relations between the two states. Botswana is a small but flourishing and very open economy that offers Czech investors many opportunities for investment, especially in the field of mining, energy, information technology and health care. The treaty to avoid double taxation, which is currently proposed in the mutual relations between the Czech Republic and Botswana, was prepared on the basis of OECD and UN model models, and, of course, responds to the internal tax rules of both countries. The Treaty will enable the coordination of the activities of the tax authorities of both States to limit possible tax evasion and, last but not least, will enable the relevant exchange of information, in accordance with all existing international standards. The negotiation of this double taxation treaty will increase the legal certainty of potential investors in both states. Its closure and implementation will not have a direct impact on the state budget. The overall contribution resulting from the application of this Treaty will depend in practice on the future development of the various forms of economic cooperation. In this context, it can be noted that the balance of mutual trade has been very balanced in recent years, respectively. slightly in favour of our country. Mutual trade between the Czech Republic and Botswana is far from reaching its potential. The turnover of mutual trade amounted to only 1.74 million in 2018. USD. For exports to Botswana, the most valuable items were medical and other furniture, telephone devices, engines, electrical equipment products and others in 2018. For imports into the Czech Republic, beef, furniture, leather products, suitcases, steel and lubrication preparations are by far the most popular. The double taxation treaty between the Czech Republic and Botswana will certainly open up space for other Czech business entities, thus helping to develop mutual economic relations, including investment activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-014-200.u3	So now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr František Navrkal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-014-200.u4	Thank you again for the floor. I'm not gonna break up like I did last time. Once again, the Minister has summarized everything. I would just add, in a few sentences, that the proposed treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Botswana on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies on 6 December 2019 and was dealt with by the Organising Committee on 9 January 2020. It is a standard contract and I believe that its adoption will help increase the legal certainty of investors, thereby helping to develop economic relations between our countries. I think that timing is also very appropriate, because the new European Commission has also given itself a greater focus on Africa for one of its priorities and a deepening of relations with individual African countries. Therefore, I propose a treaty to be agreed and, like the last time, I recommend ordering it to be discussed by the Foreign Committee in accordance with the proposal of the Organising Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-014-200.u5	I will read one apology and it is an update of the apology of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček, who, in addition to what has already been said, apologizes from 12:30 to 13:00 for work reasons. I am now opening a general debate in which I have no one to report to. So I'm gonna look in the hall, nobody's checking in, so I'm done with the general debate. I ask whether the rapporteur or the Minister is interested in final words. You don't. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I see no other proposal, so we will proceed to the vote. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee? I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 331, 148 Members registered, for 101, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. We'll proceed to the next point, it's about
