ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u1	10. The draft law amending Act No. 280/2009 Sb., Tax Code, as amended, and other related laws /house print 580/5/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. We received his resolution as House Press 580/6. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Tomáš Golán among us, and I ask that the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová speak for the plaintiffs on the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled. So, Madam Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that I have already presented the content of the bill several times in detail and there have also been a detailed discussion on the various topics, I would like to point out at the moment rather and stress those measures that have the potential to help in the current difficult situation. Current events show how important electronic communication with authorities is, but at the same time they show that not everyone is fully equipped to communicate. In this way, I refer in particular to the fact that not everyone has a data box or their own recognized electronic signature, and even if it is able to process the tax return on a computer and send tax authorities, it does not, under current legislation, have the possibility to authorise its submission remotely. The proposed amendments include, in addition to the creation of legislative assumptions for the implementation of the MY tax portal, an extension of the methods by which it can be confirmed that the submission was sent by the person mentioned therein. A range of information that the individual will be able to obtain from home via the Internet without having to visit the office will also be extended. Within the framework of the regulation of control procedures, the proposed changes open space for distance communication. In many cases, tax control will also be able to take place remotely without the need for a personal visit by the Office or an official. At the same time, when seeking the optimal form of communication, account will be taken of the preferences of the controlled person. On the contrary, the current regulation forces the tax administrator to ensure the personal participation of the tax entity to carry out certain acts. I consider a significant reduction in the interest on late payment and on the interest on the cut-off amount to be a very important signal for all those who, as a result of the current crisis, are in a situation where they will not be able to repay their outstanding amounts. Not everyone will meet the conditions for a complete waiver of interest because it cannot meet the criteria laid down to ensure that there is no illegal public support. On the contrary, the reduction in interest constitutes a positive and positive measure. At the same time, there is a significant increase in the interest limit, from CZK 200 to CZK 1,000, which will be reflected by a significant increase in tolerance for late payment of the tax for small and medium-sized entities. The smaller the tax, the greater the tolerance. I have shown examples of individual figures here several times and you will also find them in the explanatory report. I believe that many entities will appreciate this change in the current difficult situation, especially the smallest ones. For those who have retained excess deductions on value added tax due to the start of the control procedure, the welcome measure will be the introduction of an advance on tax deduction allowing the payment of an undisputed part of the amount claimed before the end of this control procedure. However, this will require an extension of the deadline for the tax administrator's search activity by 15 days, since the tax administrator will have to assess not only whether the amount applied is contested or indisputable when processing each claim applied, but also to what extent the amount of any advance could be determined. The outcome of such an assessment must then be communicated to the tax entity at the time of the initiation of the control procedure, which is explicitly stated in Section 174 (2) of the Guidelines for those of you who have argued otherwise in the past. 3 Tax Codes. I understand, however, that this extension of the time limit for the recovery of excess deduction may unlike the part of value added tax payers who do not have a problem with the retention of their excess deductions and do not believe that the extension of the time for the search activity will lead to an increase in the quality of the control activity. As part of the discussion of the draft law in the Senate, the amendment prepared, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, to remove the effectiveness of these provisions relating to the introduction of an advance on tax deduction and the related extension of the time limit for the recovery of excess deduction, was therefore loaded, but the proposal unfortunately did not receive any support. Instead, the Senate proposed amendments to a large extent repeated earlier unsuccessful amendments already applied in the Chamber of Deputies, or came up with other topics presented as legislative technical amendments and corrections, while these are purely substantive changes denying the sense of some government proposed measures. Perhaps the most visible change is an adjustment to the negative extension of the excess deduction period, which is moreover made in the least appropriate legislative manner, because it will reduce disproportionately the time limits for the refund of overpayments on other taxes, which will make them virtually impossible. Given that the Senate did not support the proposal initiated by me to temporarily defer the application of the provisions relating to the tax deduction advance and the related factual extension of the time limit for the refund of the excess tax on value added tax, I decided to achieve a similar result by means of a special law presented in a state of legislative emergency. Therefore, on Monday 20 April 2020, the Government approved the draft tax deduction law in relation to the crisis measures related to the occurrence of coronavirus and subsequently submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. The aim is to shift the effective effect of the two amendments to 1 January 2021. Although the Senate's amendments are considered as one whole at this stage, I could not agree with the changes, even if they were applied in isolation. I therefore ask you to reject the Senate's proposed amendments and to approve the bill in that text which has already been approved by this Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u3	So now I ask Senator Tomáš Goláň to take the floor. All right, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u4	Mr President, Mr Government, honourable Members, this is a very technical amendment and a very extensive amendment to the tax system. Therefore, I beg you to consider how you will react to this particularly in a situation where we are in a kind of economic crisis and when the pressure on entrepreneurs is enormous, both psychological and financial. I agree with everything the secretary said here. Of course, all the things she's named here are moving forward, are excellent things that can help entrepreneurs, of course. But the changes the Senate has adopted are certain of the future. When we're talking about an extension of 15 days of the time limit for the excess deduction, we have to realize that since 1993, we've had enough of a 30-day period to verify the excess deduction. At a time when we have instruments such as inspection reports, when all submissions are submitted electronically, suddenly we extend this deadline completely by 15 days. There's no reason, no rational reason to justify this. Especially in a situation where entrepreneurs wait for each crown, extending the excess deduction by 15 days seems to me quite unsystemic and in some way immoral. [[18.40 hours]] As part of the amendment to the Tax Code, which came to the Senate, the existing legislation has been amended in a way that is often contrary to the recent case law of the Supreme Administrative Court. This is, for example, a situation where overpayments in the account will not be taken into account until the check is completed. As an example, I will state that the company is actually going through control, in some way the company is afraid that it will be remunerated by interest on late payments, so - without the check being completed - it will pay the possible future amount to the tax administrator's account. So far, the Supreme Administrative Court has made it clear that for that time it must be taken into account that it is paid there, that the money is in its possession by the tax administrator, and that is why it cannot be remunerated. By the amendment to the Tax Code, which has been submitted to us to the Senate, this non-interest is removed, which means that the tax administrator can still have a possible measured amount in his account for three years, and yet does not take this overpayment into account and will not take it into account until the tax is paid. There are more such provisions. There is also a provision that has actually been in the original Tax and Charges Act since 1993, and this was a situation where the tax administrator had to pay the injured tax entity the amount of interest of the double payment. That was also in the tax code for the amendment you submitted to the Senate. One of the amendments corrects this situation and leaves the value of the interest twice as much as it has been so far. Another situation that we dealt with in the Senate is a principle of the predictability of law. In the case of electronic submissions all ministries, all laws have the structure and format of electronic submissions given by law as required by the Constitutional Court. This means that, if you serve electronically, everything is given by the decree. This situation is also corrected by legislation and actually this amendment, which states that, in the case of compulsory electronic submission, it is necessary for the Ministry of Finance to set out the structure and format by decree. This is so that this thing, the structure and the format, cannot be changed only by some measure of the Ministry of Finance that will be published on the website, but to have to go through the legislative process. This preserves some kind of security for the taxpayers. You will say, it is a formal matter, but we must realise that if the value added tax is not filed in the prescribed structure and format, such filing is considered invalid, with all the effects, with all the fines and all the interest due for the late submission. You can see that these are actually things that have no impact on the state budget and do not try to relieve taxpayers in any way, they do not go against the purpose and meaning of the legislation, but they simply go for taxpayers in the direction of legal certainty and in the direction of certain limits that have been set here before. One of the things that were in the original laws since 1993 and in the tax order until 2015 is a ceiling for interest rates on late payments. Especially in a situation where those taxpayers are going to get into a situation where interest on late payments is counted, it is necessary that it be ripped off as it was in the past. It has always been in the tax system - and it has been the result of the consensus of all political parties when the tax rules were adopted in 2008 - that we will only charge a possible default for five years. Only for five years. And today, in a situation where it was removed in 2015, we're going to charge any outstanding payments with absolutely no restrictions, that is, forever. When we look practically at who it's impacting, the biggest cheaters have an e-shop that's written on white horses, and they don't really touch the non-payments. But I know situations where it affects wives, when the husband was a businessman, he ran away, and those wives pay it back, and they've always gotten into a situation that in five years' time, the interest rate stopped, and now the interest rate won't stop. They've been paying it off all their lives. And in this way, I think we should get back to what was here before. This is another amendment of some kind of legal certainty for taxpayers in the case of checks. If the result of the control - we all know what it is, the Authority simply comes to some conclusion - it is communicated orally to the tax entity, in the current regulation that came to us in the Senate, it will not be given a deadline for this taxpayer to comment unless he asks for it. That's what I think is a completely reversed situation. The taxpayer should automatically be given a 15-day period to comment if he does not voluntarily give up that period himself. But today, the law, as you sent it to the Senate, deprives us of the possibility of a 15-day deadline to comment on the outcome of the inspection findings. The result of the inspection finding is a very, very important material, because there is the last moment when the taxpayer can somehow reverse this result and may in some way propose other witnesses, other evidence and other documents that would testify in his favour. And if he doesn't get that deadline automatically, then in that case, he's out of procedural protection, which is unconstitutional. I've summarized all the most important points here. I'll see if I've forgotten anything yet, but I think when I say it to you, I've summed up all the points, there's nothing that would prevent the state from carrying out the financial administration, exercising control, and exercising supervision. There is nothing that would put taxpayers at a disadvantage, and it has no impact on the state budget. Therefore, I ask you to consider and try to vote for this amendment, which came from the Senate, in the context of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u5	I am now asking whether the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Committee on Budgets, wants to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate. You don't want to, Madam, Miloslava Vostrá. So I am opening the debate, and with priority right, I have here the written application from the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Miroslav Kalousek, and Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared. Ambassador, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. This, of course, concerns the fundamental problem, the extension from thirty to forty days. If we were to approve this in the original government proposal, we are going directly against all government measures to support business and provide liquidity to the heavily tested business sector. And the smaller the subject, of course, the harder this delay in cash flow will be to endure from thirty to forty days. There's 24 billion. That's really a lot of money for the VAT payer. 24 billion, which will be time-enhanced by the cash flow of the state and aggravated by the cash flow of VAT payers. This is a state, not just a state, but public budgets, because VAT is a shared tax. The second argument, which has been raised here many times, and I would like to mention it again. The Minister argues that this is a necessary condition related to the refund for excessive deductions. But please, nicely, the excess deduction refund is set in the control business. This control activity is preceded by a search, or, if you want, a verification activity, for which there are thirty days, but within the control or search activity, the return is not fixed, which will only be determined when the verification period expires and only then within the control activity, where there is no longer a deadline, the institution, the financial authority shall set the refund. In other words - and this concerns about about five percent, the activity must be said to have improved, meaning those who are being withheld VAT, so it concerns about five percent, and we are going to extend the 55 percent by a completely senseless deadline of 15 days so that we can set the five percent refund. [[18.50 hours]] But that's not what we're doing in the search activity for which the Minister wants to extend the deadline by 15 days. The argument, with all due respect, is misguided! The return is determined in the context of the control activity and there is no term. The term is for search activity and there is no extra operation due to the return. I therefore ask the Minister once again to acknowledge somehow that the argument that she had provided with her apparatus is simply not true. I understand that the apparatus would like to have 50 percent more time for this, but that at the moment of digitization, at the time of the inspection report, there is no reason for this. And the damage that will be caused to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, VAT payers, is really small. I beg you to support the Senate proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u7	I will now ask for Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík's speech and Mr Vojtěch Munzar will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This press allows the government to take measures that would actually reverse a big mistake in relation to the cash flow companies that happened in the original proposal. Instead of going the way we didn't detain cash to companies, instead of supporting them to the maximum, this is where the financial balance of the companies, which the authorities will hold back by 15 days, is one-time CZK 24 billion. This simply makes absolutely no sense in this situation of total economic crisis. The government is making some hot fix with a hot needle to pay for, but only until the end of this year. So I would suggest that the government take inspiration from the following press, which it puts forward, which we therefore very critically, but there is one aspect that the government itself does there, and here it is in complete contradiction. With budgetary responsibility, the government says, it will take seven years for the Czech Republic to recover, and here the press says: Well, now we will not talk to you. You're right, the senate solution is better, but we're gonna put it to strength because we have more votes than you do, and in the meantime, we're gonna propose some short-term solution that isn't for seven years, which is by the end of this year. I think this is a very stupid and short-sighted approach. Let's approve the Senate version, let's admit that sometimes you don't think about something and make a mistake. In that crisis, the government was willing to rethink a number of things, it was willing to raise the Bonus for the self-righteous, it was willing to postpone the EET, so let's take this reasonable step on this Senate return, let's support it, let's get the VAT back after the same time as before and it doesn't extend by 15 days. Let's not take 24 billion at a time when they need it most! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u9	I will now request the speech of Mr Vojtěch Munzar, so far the last application. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, colleagues and colleagues, dear government, dear listeners. I've performed here several times. In the context of the amendment to the Tax Code, we discussed this before the Senate, and I am pleased that the Senate has adopted several amendments similar to those I have tabled. I must say that even before this crisis, which is caused by an epidemic, even at a time when the economy was growing, this proposal was also a significant intervention in the business environment, in the economic health of companies, and it was shown that the model of conduct and behaviour of this government towards businessmen, towards entrepreneurs, towards people who are independent, who are trying to take care of themselves, who are implementing the state budget, who contribute to our economy, was very Macesque, because apart from the other things that Senator Goláň here spoke about, the retention of money by entrepreneurs 15 days longer on the state's accounts was actually an interest-free loan to these entrepreneurs of the state and compulsory from the point of view of the law. Now, my colleagues have said that there is no pragmatic reason for this. Since 1993, we have 30 days to refund excessive VAT deductions. We've only had 30 days today. And at the time of the adoption of further administrative measures and other administrative burdens on the type of control reports, it was repeatedly argued that the need for a control report would be the instrument that would help the state accelerate its administration, that it would reduce the administrative burden on the part of the state, that it would lead to acceleration of processes, simplification of pairing, and that is how it was argued here. The opposite proves to be true. We have control reports, we have an increased administrative burden for entrepreneurs, and the state is also coming up with the idea to hold back the money of entrepreneurs in its accounts for 15 days longer. On the one hand, the Court had to push the Ministry of Finance to start returning irregularly long-holded money from undisputed parts of VAT. We opened this place several times, yet it must have been waiting for this novel. And despite the fact that the court ruled several times, the Financial Administration, contrary to the Constitutional Court, did not begin to return such retained money, even on direct instructions from the Ministry of Finance. The result was this amendment, which, according to the Ministry, is intended to return such funds. So, on the one hand, some of the unwarranted VAT refund funds will be returned to the entrepreneurs in one pocket, and immediately the Treasury wants to pull money out of the other pocket, because it will want to keep them, 15 days longer to hold on to its accounts. This is a huge intervention in financial flows and financial management not only for small and medium-sized enterprises but also for large firms. Mr. Ferjenčík here says that it is only in the name of CZK 24 billion, and I very much agree with him because especially the little ones live from invoice to invoice and often do not have enough of their resources and will have to take their own loans because the state has arranged for them a free and interest-free account. And I have one more thing to add to that. Today, we are no longer in a position to discuss this amendment here at a time of economic growth. Today, we are in a situation of a real economic crisis where the government, like turning off a button, has shut down business for many entrepreneurs. Many entrepreneurs and companies have reduced incomes, have problems with financial flows, have problems paying their commitments and their payments. On the one hand, last meeting here, we proposed to the Minister and the Ministry of Finance to maintain as much money as possible in the accounts of entrepreneurs and companies by delaying VAT at least on unpaid invoices. Unfortunately, the Minister did not face this, and our proposal failed last time. And today we're here to discuss a completely opposite model, in today's situation where companies need money, and not just today in an emergency, but it's gonna take some time, ladies and gentlemen, to get back to some normal state of the economy. And in that case, to retain the funds of the state and not let those entrepreneurs and hold them back any longer, that is indeed a stepmom approach. Therefore, I very much welcome this proposal that came from the Senate, and I hope, Madam Secretary, that you may not change your mind, but your fellow Members from your parliamentary club do, because it really is not time for us to decide here that the state will hold back funds for 15 days longer. Not only 30 days, but 45 days. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your attention. And I'm hoping you'll treat it... Madam Secretary is talking to me. I'm sorry. So I'm hoping that you'll face the problem of our businessmen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u11	Well, I'll read... So Jaroslav Faltýnek, Chairman of the ANO Group of Parliament, wants to perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u12	I'm so sorry, but I'd like to make a request if this press could be discussed after 19 o'clock. This means that the House can continue to act after 19 o'clock, to act in a procedural and meritorial manner and to vote. Only until we discuss this press, if there was a will in the House. I am aware that, of course, the Committee on Budgets is convened at 19 o'clock. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u13	Well, we've got a couple of seconds to do it. Then we know what we're going to vote on. So I'm taking the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's not 7:01, so it's valid. So vote number 48, 184 Members signed up for 118, against 14. The motion was accepted. So let's discuss this point. Now I'm gonna read one apology. Mr Radek Koten apologizes for the sitting of the Chamber of Deputies from 18 o'clock to the end for work reasons. So we are still in the general debate. Please, Mr. Martínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention for a very short time some of the positives from that part which relate mainly to data boxes, electronics, digitalisation. Specifically, I am pleased that the Ministry has accepted my proposal to extend the deadline for tax returns, which will certainly be appreciated by many people next year just because there is a current corona crisis that will make it difficult to submit a timely return or a standard return within three months. Now the deadline will be extended for an electronic tax return for a month. Similarly, some new obligations in the data box, for example, fall short of handling everything through the data box. Which are things that may have discouraged someone from setting up a data box. And for me, I am glad that in the future we will be able to offer people something truly attractive in order to establish and communicate with the state online electronically, which is very important at the time of the Coronavirus, to minimize contact with the public administration physically. And it will help the state budget in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u15	I will now look around the hall to see if anyone else wants to speak in the debate. I don't see anyone, so I'm done with the debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Madam Secretary, Mr. Senator? Are you interested in the final words? So, Madam Secretary, you're interested? Or would you prefer Mr. Senator? Well, the senator's interested. I'm only asking Madam Secretary if he's interested. So, after Mr. Senator. So Senator Tomáš Goláň has the floor. He has the final word. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that nine of the 12 points of the amendment are mine. And I'm not politically involved at all, and I'm asking you to put this down with politics. Because I'm independent, and I'm mostly an expert. Even though it made you laugh, it's just that things are professional. And today we see downstairs just that there are hundreds of thousands of people in trouble waiting for a message, some light at the end of the tunnel. And I beg you to give them the light in the form of accepting this amendment and send the message down to people that you are thinking about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u17	Now Secretary Alena Schillerová has the final word. Madam Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u18	So I'm going to be very brief, too, because I was all the arguments that were going on here, so I reacted x times to them, x times to explain them. It's a technical debate. In particular, I'll just say one thing. If the Senate version were accepted, it would be chaos. It's gonna be a huge risk to the Treasury, and it's gonna be our government. It's the legislative basis of the My Tax project, the online financial office, it's electronics, digitalization. Now this crisis has shown how important this is. So I'd say so much for the introduction. We've just been debating for a very long time here that the deadline can't be shortened if the deduction is to be returned in the form of a backup. I realized, I suggested it in the Senate too, and I said let's move on with the efficiency. And that wasn't a crisis. Let's move on, give up the techs here, and I've seen one point after another in the Senate, and I've explained why it's just impossible, why it's risky and messy. Of course I could go again now. And I explained why it wasn't possible to keep it. That this is simply the minimum time limit if the tax administrator is to perform one pairing, the other pairing and simply return the advance deduction. And I was explaining one thing. Thanks to the inspection report, the volume of deductions withheld during the period when Mr. Exminister was Minister fell from some seven eight billion a year, year on year, to 0.8 billion, or 0.7. Just give or take. And we want to get it real, thanks to the backup deductions. And indeed, the Financial Administration would only investigate suspicious invoices, suspicious transactions. But since the pandemic was created in the meantime, this crisis arose, so our government discussed on Monday with the government the provisions, the amendment to the Tax Code, which will postpone the effectiveness of this advance deduction until 2021. Because we realize that we're just gonna sacrifice the backup at this point, but we don't want that one-time cash flow effect for the taxpayer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u19	Mr Miroslav Kalousek is now reporting with priority rights. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u20	Madam Secretary, I'm sorry, but I'm feeling mild despair. You're constantly linking that deadline to an advance on the excess deduction refund. Please be nice, given that the deposit is set only in the context of the control activity, be so very kind, now come and tell us one more operation, which must take place in addition in the search and verification work, so that you need 50 percent more time to do it. Because what you're saying is true, but it doesn't apply to the activity that's going to happen after the... Because if it were what you're telling us, it would have to be that the 45th day is paid for the advance. And that's not true. When that 45th day of financial service starts to measure the advance. Tell us, one single act, which will be added to the Financial Administration in the context of the verification activity in connection with the advances, not in the context of the control.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u21	I see no one is interested in speaking with priority rights anymore. Mr. Chairman Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u22	I am merely saying that the Minister is unable to answer this critical question. Because there's just no other operation!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u23	There is no interest in the performance, so we will proceed to the vote. We will proceed to the vote under Section 97 paragraph 4 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies... So, with priority rights the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u24	Mr President, I would like to go back to the proposal made by President Faltýnek. He wasn't voteable the way he presented it. So the vote is actually zero.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-006-010.u25	In order to avoid questioning the vote, I am interrupting the Chamber of Deputies meeting and I will see you tomorrow at 9:00.
