ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-012-054.u1	54. Government bill amending Act No. 19/1997 Coll., on certain measures related to the ban on chemical weapons and on the amendment and addition of Act No. 50/1976 Coll., on zoning and construction regulations (construction law), as amended, Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on Trade Business (Act of Business), as amended, and Act No. 140/1961 Coll., Criminal Law, as amended, as amended, and other related laws /German press 654/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-012-054.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I note that the bill amendment is not a transposition solution. It is proposed by the State Office for Nuclear Safety and the MIT is a representative of the applicant in this case. The reason for submitting this amendment is to update the current wording of the Act and bring it into line with the latest requirements. By which we bring him into line with the so-called A convention. What's going on? We tighten the rules on the treatment of certain chemicals, especially after a ban on development, production, stockpiling, the use of chemical weapons and their destruction, and all regarding requirements for the protection of public interests in the field of chemical, biological, radiological and, where appropriate, nuclear. That's why the SÚJB. There is quite a fundamental conceptual change in the area of banning the use of these substances - and I note - for certain purposes. When I translate it a little bit into Czech, as I have been familiar with it, it does not concern the use for various peaceful purposes, health care, etc., it is for purposes that can in some way harm people, nature or institutions. I say repeatedly, it's just that it's being brought into line with the so-called. an international convention. This Convention, and therefore our amendment to the Act, prohibits the use of all substances that are eligible, and that is important, are three areas, cause either death or temporary incapacity, or permanent injury to health, both to humans and animals, but this also applies, for example, in terms of plant destruction, etc. [[17.10 hours]] Some information obligations to public authorities are further clarified, and this amendment also reforms the criminal part of the law. That means what happens when this is broken. It introduces a number of new information obligations within the meaning of a certain exclusive obligation, which in practice would mean that there should only exceptionally be a need for correct implementation within the framework of international commitments. On the other hand, the amendment repeals existing information obligations, which is the good news, for their overcapacity, strengthens the SÚJB, obtains the necessary information, and brings quite lightening in terms of administrative burden. The amendment should also contribute to strengthening the Czech Republic's ability to meet its international commitments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-012-054.u3	I also thank and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Radovan Vích. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-012-054.u4	Good evening, everyone. Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Government, colleagues, I will just add what the Minister of Industry and Trade has said here. This law is not a transposition act. This is a House press of 654, which mainly changes the law on measures related to the ban on chemical weapons. It also contains minor changes to the trade law and criminal law, and all these modifications are caused not only by the desire to comply with the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and their Destruction, which has long been working, but to regulate the law according to current practical knowledge and to harmonise terminology, which is in conflict with other legislation, and interpretation of key concepts. It is therefore a revision of this law. I must point out that this bill changes the whole basic definition of chemical weapons. It is most prominent for the concept of chemical weapon and the concept of production of specified substances. For so-called specified substances, i.e. substances under close supervision by the national authorities and the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, their list will no longer be amended by a decree, but the law will refer directly to the Annex to the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Stockpiling and the Use of Chemical Weapons and their Destruction. That's all on my side. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-012-054.u5	I also thank and open a debate that I do not have applications for at the moment. I'm asking the O.R. if anyone's checking in. Since I don't see anyone, I am ending the debate again. I ask if there is an interest in the final words by the appellant or rapporteur. It's not like that. I'm gonna call my colleagues in the O.R. because we're gonna vote. First, we will consider the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering a motion to discuss the Defence Committee as a guarantee committee, and I will ask if anyone has a proposal for another committee. It's not like that. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the defense committee's commandment as a guarantee committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 156 vote, 145 Members and Members are registered, for 126, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that we have ordered this proposal to the Defence Committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a proposal for other committees? This is not the case, so we have dealt with all the proposals on this point, and I am done discussing this point. The next point is here.
