ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u1	2. Government bill on certain adjustments in the field of sales records in connection with the announcement of emergency status / House print 788/ - shortened negotiations I repeat that we are proceeding on a short-term basis, § 99 para. 5, we need to assess whether the conditions for discussing the above draft law are in the shortened negotiations. We have approved the procedure and I can open a debate on this point. Madam Secretary reporting. Deputy Prime Minister and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. Let me briefly state the draft law on certain adjustments in the field of sales records in connection with the announcement of an emergency situation. In connection with the emergence and spread of COVID-19 disease, the government has declared an emergency situation for the territory of the Czech Republic, in which a number of restrictive measures are implemented, which have or may have a negative impact on business, because they consist either directly in the regulation of closure of establishments or in the obligation to take measures which make the operation of business difficult. The Ministry of Finance had previously announced that it would in fact postpone the start of the final sales record phase by three months. However, it has now decided to approach the situation by legislative means. There are basically two reasons. Our goal is to limit visits to the financial authorities of taxpayers who are to start registering sales on May 1st, for example in order to collect authentication data or receipts blocks to prevent complications with already registered taxpayers, because now is the time when a large majority of first and second-wave taxpayers must exchange certificates and obtain new authentication data according to the certification agency, and this is what we wanted to prevent them from coming for them. We propose a delay in such a way that, for the duration of the emergency situation, a derogation from all obligations under the Sales Recording Act, except for the obligation to handle authentication data, a certificate for the record of sales and a block of receipts, will be granted so that the payer will overtake their misuse. Three months after the end of the emergency, the exemption from the registration obligation, i.e. issue a receipt, send a data report to the tax administrator, or submit a notification of sales registered under a special scheme and the obligation to place an information notification at the premises. In fact, we will provide the taxpayers with sufficient space to restart sales records and ensure all the resulting obligations. So it's tied up three months after the emergency. The emergency ends sometime in mid-April. If the government, and yet we do not work with such a variant, wants to extend it, it must anyway turn to the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u3	All right, Mr. Chairman. First, the rapporteur. The Committee on Budgets, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President, discussed and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 788/1. I will now ask the rapporteur, President of the budget committee Miloslava Vostroa, to inform us of the discussion of this bill in committee and to justify any amendments. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the draft budget committee resolution on the Government Bill on certain adjustments in the field of sales records in connection with the announcement of an emergency situation, House press 788, a legislative emergency hearing. Following the opening words of the Minister of Finance, following the report and following the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament that a general debate be held on the bill, stating that only representatives of individual Members' clubs can speak in it with their opinion; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic close its negotiations no later than 24.00 hours, on 24 March 2020; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that the Government's proposal for a Act on certain adjustments to the record of sales in connection with the announcement of an emergency situation, House Press 788, gives its consent without comment; V. empowers the Committee's rapporteur (a) to present this resolution to the Assembly of Deputies, (b) in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. So many motions for a resolution approved by the Committee on Budgets. However, there is an agreement on a general debate with a limit of five minutes. This is actually the counter-proposal proposed by the Committee on Budgets, so I think that the first vote should definitely be on how we will hold a general debate. That's all on my side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u5	Thank you, Madam President of the Budget Committee. Let me correct my mistake because I did not vote at the beginning of this point that the Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for discussing the Government's proposal on certain adjustments to the record of sales in connection with the announcement of an emergency situation, the House's press 788 in the shortened negotiations. If you'll forgive my mistake, I'll have serial number 12 voted on it, and then we'll continue. I've started the number 12 vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 12 out of 102 for 67, against no one. The motion was accepted. So we have corrected the procedural error and we can therefore bear in mind that the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová has delivered her introductory words, the rapporteur has presented a report on the news, and we have to deal with what the Committee on Budgets has proposed, which means that in the general debate, it is a resolution that was as item No. 1, this means that the club is always one with an opinion in the general debate and the speaking period is five minutes in accordance with Section 99 para. 7 Rules of Procedure. That is what we are going to vote on, and whether we are going to have a general debate. But it's designed. I'll check you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. I register applications with the priority rights of Mr Stanjura, Mr Fiala and Mr Michálek. If you have all signed up, we can decide in the vote order number 13 that we will have a general debate in the dimension decided by the Committee on Budgets. I've started the number 13 vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 13 from 76 for 61 Members present. The motion has been approved. So I am still stating the resolution, which means that the Chamber of Deputies has approved that a general debate is being held on the bill, with only representatives of individual Members' clubs speaking in it with their position. This is the resolution that we have approved, and we will therefore follow this resolution. I am initiating a general debate. The first logged in is with priority right the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura club. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, colleagues, for our parliamentary club, I don't think I'm gonna take five minutes. First of all, I want to thank the Minister for changing her mind. She said last week she couldn't. We're convinced it's possible. I mean, the government proposal isn't enough. I think that businessmen and small businessmen will have a completely different concern when the emergency is over, so they have any sales at all, not if they register electronically. We have prepared an amendment which is contained in the Houses of Document 4638, which amends in three variants actually in § 1 para. 2 the time of the third and fourth wave, for twelve, nine or six months. Of course, we prefer 12 months. This proposal was voted in the morning or in the morning by the Committee on Budgets. He didn't pass. When I put the report on social networks, many tradesmen used it winged because it said that members of the ANO movement, social democracy and KSČM refused, and wrote to me: "Don't be polite, say names." I'm not gonna say the names here. I think anyone can get a second chance. The House will decide as a whole, and then the principal will just be public to everyone. I would ask you to prioritize the interests of businessmen and small entrepreneurs over some coalition agreement and political agreement. I think that's wise. A 12-month delay will have no dramatic impact on the state budget and will relieve those who may have the biggest problems of all. I think if you think about it honestly, and I'm convinced that the businessmen are turning to everyone...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u7	I understand, Mr. Chairman. I'll ask the House for peace. Please lead the discussion in the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u8	I think we all get those e-mails from the businessmen across the political spectrum asking you to either cancel the third and fourth waves or postpone at least that year. I would like to announce for our club that we will support the proposal of the Pirates Club, which will certainly be presented by Mr Ferjenčík, who proposes to abolish the third and fourth waves. If this does not pass, we will vote for 12, or nine, or six months to postpone. I would like to ask you all to do so, so that you can really carefully consider whether this is the thing that our small businessmen, businessmen and also doctors are supposed to deal with in August or September. Let's see when the emergency ends. It seems very simple, very practical and very pragmatic. I would intercede for this on behalf of not the Civil Democratic Party or the Civil Democrats, but on behalf of all hundreds of thousands of small businessmen and businessmen, who, in fact, ended their sales day-to-day. Let's not give them another unnecessary duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u9	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. Mr Radim Fiala now. Mr Michálek will be ready, then Mr Jurečka will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u10	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me briefly the position of the SPD movement. I must return very briefly to the fact that we in the SPD never supported these proposals at any reading, even when they returned from the Senate, and we said that the introduction of EET is simply nonsense mainly for the smallest businessmen and entrepreneurs. Now, of course, it's confirmed. At a time when the government wants to help, and I very much appreciate it, businessmen and small businessmen, it says that EET will just put them off. However, this will not prevent them from thinking that they must already get some equipment, that they must turn it on and that they simply have to do this in some time, in an emergency situation plus three months, to engage, and if they do not want to be penalized, they simply have to do it after the three months after the emergency situation. I think, Madam Secretary, that it would be better for everyone and everyone would be relieved if we had a flat-rate tax. I agree that taxes have to be paid and have to be paid. It depends on who has them in this economic crisis, which unfortunately awaits us, and those tradesmen, pay. And the fact is, they're gonna think about other things. So we were proposing a flat-rate tax, and I think it would be easy now if we were to say good, so in some time, we're going to forgive the flat-rate tax, we're going to forgive it, we're going to forgive it, we're going to forgive it, we're going to forgive it, we're going to forgive it, we're going to forgive it, and we're going to do a lot better with it than we're going to do with the whole EET wave that's going to start. So at the beginning, I said that I am also happy, and we are happy in the SPD that the beginning of the third and fourth wave will shift by some time, but we think that it is a short time, that the businessmen and small entrepreneurs will have other concerns, and that is why we have an amendment that moves the introduction of the EET by 18 months, and we are still not sure if it will be enough to consolidate the economy in those eighteen months to be able to deal with it and to be able to respond properly so that they are not penalized. I believe that many other parliamentary parties will join this proposal. We will also be joining all the proposals that will prolong any delay in the launch of the EET wave, and we would like it to be extended as long as possible. Of course, the ideal and optimal option is to cancel the EET, especially at this time. I think it's a great opportunity to cancel and replace a flat-rate tax that could work with remission, deferral, forgiveness, or various other institutes. So it was for the SPD movement and, of course, we will sign up for our amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u11	I thank Mr Radim Fial. Mr Jakub Michálek, then Mr Marian Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I did not get the floor before the procedural vote. I signed up for the procedural vote and the proposal on how we got out of the budget committee. I realise that we have extraordinary circumstances here, but even in these exceptional circumstances, I think that we should respect the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. And as I read it - and I will be happy if you correct me and point out, for example, other provisions of this law - the Committee has a budget in accordance with § 99 para. 3 of the law to discuss in a short hearing... Sorry... In its resolution, the Committee will propose whether a general debate is to be held on the bill and on which parts the debate will be conducted in detail. It will also propose a deadline for the House to end the bill negotiations... So the committee cannot, under this provision - or beyond that, do not have the support of the law - propose that some Members should not be able to speak in the debate. And if we look at the provisions of paragraph 7 of the same paragraph, the House may decide to refrain from the general debate in the second reading of the bill and to limit speaking time to five minutes. Third reading of the bill, etc. - This means that it is possible to decide to abandon the whole general debate, it is possible to decide to limit speaking time for up to five minutes, but I do not think that it is possible to limit the right of a Member to speak at all in accordance with the law. For example, it is not clear how this applies to Members who are not included in any member's club, etc. So I think there was a mistake in not getting a priority-law word when I applied before the procedural vote was taken. I think the part of the clause that voted off that prevents the performance is illegal, but I don't want to question it and delay it here. I just want to say this as a precedent for the future, so that this does not restrict the right to speak with Members by proposing it to the committee and voting by the Chamber of Deputies. I do not think that this is possible because Members are equal in their rights and it is not possible without legal support to restrict the right to speak. So that was my priority right that I wanted to bring before the procedure was discussed. And for us, this proposal will be addressed by an authorised speaker from the Mikuláš Ferjenčík Members' Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u13	Mr. Chairman, I didn't limit him either. I take your speech to the procedure when I have corrected my error, but otherwise, of course, the Rules of Procedure Act clearly states that by resolution, the Chamber of Deputies can limit both part of the general debate and the debate completely, or restrict all Members so that they do not speak. And I think that our grémia talks were such that we respect this and that the position of the MPs with the individual speakers will be taken. Now, Mr. Marian Jurečka... Even if you have the same priority right, you're logged in, but since we're having a procedural debate, you have your say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u14	Thank you for the floor. I'll just close it. I completely agree that this agreement was on the breeze, but it was a political agreement at the level of political culture. The second plane is the one I was talking about earlier, which concerned the correct application of the Rules of Procedure, and I don't think it can be done in this way, and it could be, if we approach this precedent, potentially exploitable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u15	This precedent was already created in 2002 during the floods and has never been used before. So... You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u16	Thank you. We have heard this argument, but we have not been able to trace the resolution, so I will ask that it be quoted accurately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u17	prosit, now, Mr Marian Jurečka with an opinion. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u18	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, allow me to give an opinion on this House press here on behalf of the KDU-ČSL. I must say, then, that when we were here last year discussing the approval of electronic sales records, we often heard an argument that there will in no way be any burden for entrepreneurs within the third and fourth waves. I have to paraphrase it a little today. The last week I have heard - and I am also glad that this has been objectively said by both the Prime Minister and the Minister - that the EET will be postponed to reduce the burden and make life less difficult for entrepreneurs in the third and fourth waves, or, in general, for those with EETs. So it's a good thing this knowledge happened. Personally, I wasn't in favour of expanding the EET by a third and fourth wave, so I don't think the parameters that are there are happy. However, now back to this situation, in which we stand today and in which, above all, there are businessmen, entrepreneurs, self-employed people who have to deal with the EET and who are also threatened by the arrival of the third and fourth waves. I propose two amendments for the KDU-ČSL club. The first with the number 4626 reduces efficiency for the third and fourth waves on 1 January 2022. Just for the sake of completeness and correctness, I've got it all wrong, I've got 2021 written on it, but I'm fixing it for the microphone here. And then I'm applying for an alternative, second amendment, which also pushes the efficiency of the third and fourth EET waves back to 2021 on January 1st, and that's under number 4625. In both cases, by directly entering these amendments into Law 256/2019, I consider that, logically, I will agree with any necessary technical changes in how to amend this proposal to the law in a text. So many general justifications for these proposals. I think that really tradesmen will not be in June or July, but even in August in a situation that could mean some significant relaxation for them, they will deal with this crisis and that they have great complications in their current business. Just to illustrate, I'll add who's involved. These are, of course, farmers who have their own cheese plants, who produce products and sell them to final customers, so, of course, today they can't sell on farmers' markets, it means a lot to them, they're going to be affected by the third and fourth waves, and they're definitely not going to make the situation any easier for them in August. So please, nicely, let's take this into account. And then one practical thing. I think it would be good to do these things on January 1st, because the business environment, when it's going to be dealt with in August, at a time like holidays, starting school year, etc., I don't think it's completely happy. I mean, doing this on January 1st at least 2021 would be more predictable about the business environment, it would be more helpful on our part. So please, consider supporting these two alternative amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u19	Thank you. Now in the debate, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for reconsidering her position, where she initially did not want to hear about the legislative proposal, and finally found a way to suspend EET so that we could do so before 1 May. I appreciate that the government has re-evaluated the position and, contrary to a very controversial option, where sanctions would go the way of forgiveness, but the obligations would remain for citizens, we are going the way of changing legislation, which gives those entrepreneurs far more legal certainty. So I appreciate that. I think there's a little bit more to the proposal. That's why we're proposing a longer deadline, we're proposing 12 months after the end of the emergency. If this fails, we will, of course, support all other possibilities of delay, whether on 1 January, as suggested by Mr Jurečka and, as the opposition has proposed after the last meeting of the Committee on Budgets, we will also support the delay by nine or six months. In addition to this amendment, I will propose one more thing, namely the complete abolition of the third and fourth waves. I believe this House has one last chance once more to think very carefully about whether or not this measure is reasonably effective. We believe that it is not that it will fall on the honest ones who will have to buy the electronic bills, and the dishonest ones will simply not issue the receipts. There's nothing the law can do about that. And the moment the transactions take place one-on-one, there's no way to control it. So for this reason, perhaps for the last time in plenary of this House, I propose the release of the third, fourth wave from the law completely. And I'm asking you to reconsider if it's really worth putting the x-hundred thousand businessmen through that unnecessary bureaucracy. Thanks for any support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u21	I thank Mr Ferjenčík. Mr. Jiří Dolejš now. A colleague of Kalousek will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u22	Yes, thank you, Mr President. If you don't mind, there are about three clear conclusions behind the KSČM club. First of all, as I'm listening here, I don't think you're gonna get me out of some kind of mistake, we're gonna agree to postpone the effectiveness of the EET here across the political spectrum, because we understand that it's much cleaner and clearer than putting on promises that it won't enforce, control and harass, and so on. Basically, in the nearest period, too much sales, and therefore, there will be no tax. So it's clear that we postpone the effectiveness of this law, which was due to start on May 1, we agree on that and it's basically more than logical. The second comment relates to the fact that we are returning to the summer of last year or the end of the spring of last year, when we approved the third and fourth wave here. I think we're really returning this debate to that political dispute where we all said almost everything we wanted to say back then. And I don't think we're gonna add anything new to that, except that we're having an unfortunate incident with the plague and the spreading epidemic. However, I think that the proposal to abolish the third and fourth waves is really just a policy of specific parties, that it is not related to the epidemic, although I fully understand, and it is legitimate that they have taken advantage of this opportunity. But if someone thought that the EET should essentially apply except for the honorable exceptions for all and that it is impossible to divide society into those falling into the first and second waves and those falling into the third and fourth waves, then for him this step is simply redundant, unnecessary, and perhaps let's save the political struggle in this area for, say, a quieter moment, and not for today. The last thing I want to underline is this debate about the length of delay. It really has its meaning. I understand that someone thinks those three months are going to be very low. This departure from those three months is essentially based on an optimistic assumption that may not be fulfilled, and therefore that before Easter we will meet and hear that the extension of the emergency situation is not necessary and that by the end of the year we are going back to the original track and the economy is starting to work. Of course, that doesn't have to happen. So those who propose a three-month delay, not by a quarter of a year, but by six months, a year, or just now, I've heard even a year and a half ago, they can justify that in various ways. And I think that we should be open to these debates, either that we are still going to say it in the context of some compromise search today, when this point is over and we are going to vote, or, of course, that we are expecting another package anyway, we are not going to solve everything that is coming at us today, so that we can, the longer extension of the problem, mix it into the package that is undoubtedly waiting for us during the spring of this year. That's all. Have a lovely spring afternoon and hopefully for all and healthy afternoons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u23	I thank Mr Jiří Dolejš. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, Věra Kovářová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u24	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry, I take my glasses off because every time I breathe, I see, and when I exhale, I can't see. [[Fun in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to defend any amendment that I am proposing because the amendments by colleagues from the pirate party, the ODS and the KDU-ČSL provide a rather wide portfolio to choose. So let me just make two comments. Firstly, I would like to appreciate that the executive decided to go the way of legislative regulation. I was extremely embarrassed by the originally announced solution: the law will be effective, but we will act as if it were not, and we will not enforce it. I even believe that we would be beyond the bounds of the rule of law in such a procedure. The executive of his will cannot decide what law he will enforce, what law he will not enforce from his own will. Now, sir, you can go to the red because I have graciously decided, and now you can't go to the red because I don't want it anymore. Here I think the executives overestimated their scope and that the fact that this will be a way of delaying the law's effectiveness is the only right and possible way. So thank you for that. On the second point, I want to appeal to that deadline. Indeed, we are in a situation where businessmen are on the verge of thinking about their own existence. The government has approved a package whose many steps we welcome and support. However, the support, and the very tradesmen who were banned from their activities, from one day to the next, was prohibited from producing and having any income, the support is very modest. I sure hope we can get to some improvement. But if the aid is very modest, it is not possible to add additional and additional burdens to it. Imagine, hypothetically, that the emergency situation will end in mid-April, so at some point in the holidays after three months, when a businessman actually mobilizes all the forces to dig out of the abyss caused by the Chinese virus, he will still have to set up some kind of expensive equipment, devote his intellectual and administrative capacity to it. And I think that's terribly insensitive. If, on the one hand, we say we want to help everyone, we cannot burden them on the other. And here, Madam Secretary, I beg your consideration. These are two things - this is an EET and this is an extension of the refund of excessive VAT deductions from 30 to 45 days. If we give the businessman some support on the one hand, and on the other hand we burden him with two extra loads, we actually reset it and didn't help him at all. Let's really help them at least by getting rid of the unnecessary repression and the unwarranted extension of the refund of excessive deductions. I beg you to consider this appeal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u25	I thank Mr Kalousek. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová, the last one entered into the general debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to present my opinion for the Mayors and Independents Club. First of all, I would like to point out that, in our view, small EETs should not have been introduced at all. But since the EET is already in place, of course we welcome the fact that the Ministry of Finance has heard the opposition parties and has come up with a proposal to postpone the third and fourth waves. We welcome this, of course. It is good for small businesses or, for example, for doctors who are actually worried about something other than the introduction of the EET. In short, it is good for all the small businessmen, to whom the consequences of this crisis will probably fall in the most prominent way. [[15.10 hours]] However, what we believe is a period of three months, which is too short and does not correspond to the seriousness of the situation. If we postpone the EET for only three months now, I am aware that we will meet here again in two months and we will decide again that we will postpone the EET. It would therefore be acceptable for us to extend the delay period to at least one year, and therefore we will also support the proposals put forward by the opposition parties, whether it is one year delay or more months than the three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. I'm asking if there's anyone else for the debate. This is not the case, I am ending the debate and we will be in detail in the debate, where I have Mr Ferjenčík's enrollment first. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As I have announced, I report to the House press under number 4645. It is a proposal which has two parts, which are also voteable separately, which has already been voted separately by the Committee on Budgets. The first part is therefore a delay of EET against the government proposal - instead of three months by 12 months, and the second part is the permanent abolition of the third and fourth EET wave, meaning not to introduce EET for craftsmen, businessmen and other free professions, among other things doctors. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u29	Thank you. Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura now. Colleague Hrnčíř registered in writing now has the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, I do not know if you are aware of the situation we are in. We have a crisis here that has caused the tertiary sector of the economy, which means the service sector, to be completely in ruins. There is a tourism area and there are no services for that. They blew out, basically zero-day-to-day. A three-month delay in EET doesn't really mean anything. It's gonna be many of those businessmen building from scratch, figuring out where they're gonna take bread literally. That means, if we're talking about an effective delay of EET, and it's a burden, it's just clearly it is, it takes at least a year or 18 months. I would therefore like to sign up for our amendment under number 4641 at the moment, when we are trying to postpone the EET for 18 months. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u31	I thank Mr Hrnčíř. Now, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, then Marian Jurečka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u32	I will first formally sign up for the amendment, which is set out in the system as House document 4638. I'm not going to repeat it, it's delaying the efficiency of the third and fourth wave after the end of the emergency state option by 12, 9 and 6 months. I mean, we're also going to support the version that Mr. Hrnčíř just read 18 months ago. Allow me to make a general remark on these five prints that will follow the infirmary. Let us remember how incredibly short a time we were given to read, think about, or make amendments. I don't think even the extraordinary times actually excuse the government for sending it to us so unstandardly and lately. Unlike the infirmary, where there are also the most amendments. It is thanks to the fact that we have had enough time to get to know it, to consult experts, to think about amendments, to write them, to be legislatively correct, and to submit them to the system. Last comment on the debate - about the three months. So we're hoping that the emergency could end in the middle of April. So if we model it, in the middle of July, according to the government's proposal, they're supposed to start the third and fourth wave of EET, and answer the question yourself if that's reasonable. Who doesn't want to think about it, I'll answer. For us, for the opposition, I would say as a whole: it is simply not sensible! Ask those people you would impose that obligation on whether they would welcome it or if it would upset them. I think b) is correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u33	Thank you. Now, Mr Marian Jurečka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u34	Thank you. I tried to describe this in my speech in the context of the general debate, but now to give it enough, so I am reporting in the context of a detailed debate on Amendment 4626, which postpones the third and fourth wave on 1 January 2022, and I also report to Amendment 4625, which delays the arrival of the third and fourth wave on 1 January 2021. And once again, I am intercede for this, because there is more of these amendments for different forms of delay, let us also consider taking these steps on 1 January of that calendar year. It gives more logic and it's much more predictable and it's - I think I say it as a person who was 12 years old - it's much more meaningful just to make these changes every January 1st, not to do it during the year on a specific day, I don't know, in August, after the announcement of an emergency, etc. And I would really call once again here for the government not only to prepare packages that they postpone, or to impose an obligation to make advances, etc., but to focus on concrete assistance in the next week's two for how to finance the damage that businesses and businesses have to close their operations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-002-002.u35	I thank Mr Jurečka. Anyone else in the detailed debate? It's not like that. According to the Grémia agreement, we have had a second reading debate. I'm asking the secretary for the final word. No. The rapporteur? Not either. In that case, I have the same task as in the previous point, namely to decide whether we will continue the third reading immediately or have the amendments printed. I recommend that we decide to print the amendments, interrupt this item after second reading, and then we would vote on the third reading at once to concentrate the vote on one point. We will decide in vote number 14 on interruption after second reading. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 14 out of 94 present for 80, against no one. The motion was accepted. We've cut point two. Let's continue with point number
