ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u1	40. Government bill on end-of-life products / House print 677/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Environment Minister Richard Brabec. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Let me use the three sentences of this opportunity to thank you for the second reading debate on the last proposal, because the debate was very factual, nonideological, professional. And this is how I would imagine a debate not only in committees, but also in plenary. Thank you again for that. And while I disagree from a technical point of view with some of the amendments, I think that even the petitioners have spent a lot of work on it. And I think that these are all these four prints, which in preparation and even now in this meeting have shown that we can have a really professional conversation, and it is clear from different perspectives, both practical and academic, but in the best sense. Now, just really, really, really short. The bill on end-of-life products significantly changes the further treatment of products that have lived their lives, has ended their lifespan, and we want them to be used again to the best possible extent and, of course, not to harm their impacts on waste from selected products. This applies mainly to batteries and accumulators, electrical equipment, tyres and vehicles. This means that not only does this printing translate a number of European Union regulations, but it also uses a number of practical initiatives that we have acquired as Ministry of the Environment and other our partners over many years of functioning of the law, or, let's say, legal standards relating to end-of-life products as part of the regulation of these products contained in Act No. 185/2001 Coll., on waste, where these products were included. And as I said at first reading, we considered it important to separate them into a separate law, because there were quite a lot of these changes and, of course, they always had to open the main waste law. So there is a harmonisation of the rules for the creation and functioning of collective systems, which are a number in the Czech Republic, especially when it comes to the modification of electrical equipment or batteries and accumulators. This is a refinement of the retrieving targets directly to the electrical equipment manufacturer, to extend the retrieving network. The concept of ecomodelling, a very important selected product for the environment and a number of other things is being introduced. [[unintelligible]] Again, I would like to stress that the standard has been debated very, very long and in detail with all the main actors, including, of course, collective systems, including the Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Industry, the Union of Towns and Communities and a number of other entities. And again, I would like to thank you for the very stimulating debate that has been held in the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u3	Thank you. I note that, at first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee, and the press was directed to the Economic Committee and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The Committees' resolution was delivered as press 677/1 to 677/8. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mrs Jana Krutáková, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee, justifying any amendments. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u4	Good afternoon again, Mr President. [[The president accidentally turned off the microphone and apologized.]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly and briefly introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on the Environment. 120 of the 26th meeting held on 29 April 2020 on the Government Bill on End-of-life Products, designated as House Print 677. A total of 33 amendments to the committee met on the proposal of the Government Act on End-of-life Products, which lays down rules on the handling of these products, whether they are electrical equipment, tyres, batteries, accumulators or car wrecks. These amendments were all about e.g. transfer to private companies of control of the obligations of processors, the issuing of authorisations for the operation of collective systems according to the quantity of waste or the number of collection points laid down in the municipality in order to ensure the recovery of such products. 33 amendments were therefore discussed, and you can get to know them in detail in the Houses of the Press 677/7. Committee on the Environment Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the justification of Deputy Minister of Environment . Berenika Peštová, D, intelligence report by Ms . Jana Krutáková and after the debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic approve the Government's bill as amended by the amendments adopted; II. Instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies; III. empowers the Committee rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of this draft law at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment - which I have just done, IV. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations. So much for the resolution of the Committee on the Environment on the House press. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u5	Thank you, too. Good evening, dear colleagues. I would now ask that Mr Ivan Adamec and the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mrs Eva Fialová, step by step, take up the words of the rapporteur of the Economic Committee and inform us of the committee proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, it is now easier for the economic committee. The Economic Committee has discussed this draft law publicly on 10 June 2020 and recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve the House press 677 as amended by the Government Bill. He then empowers, instructs and instructs the President. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u7	So here we will make an adjustment for the tapestry, because the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, as I have reported, Mrs Eva Fialová, is no longer a member of this committee, and the rapporteur will present the proposal to Mr Schiller.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u8	Thank you for your word. I will read the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which, at its 37th meeting on 16 April 2020, commented on the Government's bill on end-of-life products, House press 677. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, at its 37th meeting following the reasoning of the draft by doktor Berenika Peštová, Deputy Minister of the Environment, following Mr Jan Schiller's report and following the debate, adopted a resolution adopting: I. Recommends the Chamber of Deputies to discuss and approve the House's press on 677/0 in the submitted text; II. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the resolution; III. Instructs the President of the Committee to send the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u9	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which I have the following Members - Mr Elfmark and Mrs Eva Fialová. Mr Elfmark will also speak as part of the opening words for the Czech Pirate Party. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, fellow Members, as well as this House Press 677, I would like to begin by briefly recalling which topics have resonated with us in the framework of the amendments, and then I will further present my three amendments. In the draft law on selected end-of-life products, several topics appear that have aroused conflicting reactions. The first such theme is the density of the network of retrieving sites. There are proposals among the amendments tabled to strengthen the collection network, possibly. the return of an existing state where it is an obligation to establish a place for the recovery of electrical equipment in municipalities above 2 000 inhabitants. However, I welcome, on the one hand, the requirement for an even distribution, which is in the draft law, and, above all, the obligation to place the place of return in any municipality that so requests. I therefore agree with the density proposed in the government law. The next issue is the question of technical standards. One of the amendments tabled suggests that processors of electrical equipment should follow CENELEC standards and be regularly verified in this sense by an authorized auditor. This proposal by Mrs Fialová has aroused a wave of reactions, and some processors have expressed concern that this new obligation will not eliminate their business. They fear the financial costs of audits, fear that due to the small capacity of authorized auditors they will not be able to obtain verification and will not be able to continue operating. They also express concern that the audit will not be fair, as auditors are linked to collective systems and manufacturers. Enough time has been partially resolved by the appellant compared to the original proposal submitted to the Committee on the Environment by the fact that processors will not have to have the verification until 2023. I also found that many processors already have certified certifications now, including some so-called. protected workshops. However, the amendment also gave a disagreeable opinion by the Office for the Protection of Competition, which should not fit in here. I therefore concluded that the petitioner should provide more information on how many entities will actually be subject to new obligations, what are the financial costs of the audit, etc., so that we can qualify to decide whether or not to support this proposal. I would now like to present my three amendments, which I have uploaded into the system and which I will then comment on in a detailed debate. First amendment - so called. Chinese wall. As part of the preparation of the bill on end-of-life products, the need for bans was discussed with the professional public. vertical integration, i.e. limiting the connection of end-of-life processors to the activities of the collective system, which is just called. Chinese wall. However, the amendment presented in the wording of the law is inconsistent. It limits the direct participation of the collective system operator in the processing of end-of-life products, but does not address the situation where the operator of the system is directly or indirectly linked to the processor. I propose to supplement the text of the bill in such a way that restrictions on the involvement of processors also apply to situations where the processor is linked directly or indirectly to the collective system through connected persons. Where a collective system or connected persons own a processing company directly or indirectly, it is a significant conflict of interest. [[17.40 hours]] This concept, i.e. consistent separation of the collective system and processors, respectively. the prohibition that collective systems and associated persons possess processing facilities is commonly used in a number of countries. These are, for example, France, Spain or Slovakia. It is not true that anchoring the ban on vertical integration would constitute an obstacle for producers not to own recycling facilities. The adjustment contained in this amendment aims to prevent the collective system and persons connected with it from owning processing facilities, which would subsequently be supplied under better conditions by electricity waste collected, thereby distorting the processing market. Manufacturers who are not connected to the collective system in property may own the processing of recycling facilities without restrictions even after the introduction of the so-called "recyclable'. Chinese walls. At the same time, the anchoring of the Chinese wall does not alter the ownership of the processed material in any way. Nor will the possibility of buying recycled material from used electrical equipment be restricted. On the contrary, the proposed ban on vertical integration will make recycled material available to all interested parties and not only to those who are property-related to the collective system. My second amendment concerns monitoring the flow of materials. The monitoring of the flow of materials by the manufacturer through more business relationships is unrealistic and in my opinion even inefficient. I believe that the established waste flow record will help to determine whether the waste generated is further treated correctly, but given the impossibility of the collective system operator to determine the conditions for processing material to customers - because they are not in any business relationship, the producer, the owner of the waste and the contractual partner is always a processor - the manufacturer or the operator of the system is not in any way able to provide for this. The obligation to register in case of end-use, re-use or disposal shall be imposed on specific processors. It is unclear how the promoter imagined that the manufacturer would ensure the obligation. The third amendment, which I propose with my colleague, Dana Balcarová, concerns participation in business. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European It is not clear what is meant by sharing in another person's business. A wide range of possible interpretations begins with an ordinary contractual relationship and ends with a share in society, which is dealt with in the letter. a). The meaning is therefore unclear and exploitable. That's why I propose writing. (b) cancel. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u11	Thank you, too. And the next in line is Mrs Eva Fialová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u12	Thank you for the floor. I have been asked here to answer some of the questions that have been raised recently by my amendments, which I partly correct with other amendments. The moment I submitted these proposals, the sheltered workshops that were said were accidentally leaked, and it needs to be corrected a little bit. I will start with the reasoning and the main three topics that this concerns, the first of which is, of course, the introduction of the so-called. certification. We must first realize what our goal is and for whom collective systems were originally created. Collective systems were created for manufacturers, not for municipalities, not for anyone else, to be able to fulfil the obligations imposed on them by the law. Any good manufacturer who is interested in how its product ends and if it fills the legislative framework also wants to know how the electricity waste will be processed. And since the manufacturer cannot currently be a processor, an independent company was created based on the requirements of both manufacturers and processors, so that they could verify the numbers that are able to carry out audits and which is able to validate the numbers that are being made further to the Ministry and to the producers themselves, whether they comply with their legal requirements. If we're gonna have fun... I'd take the liberty of giving the facts here, not any assumptions or emotions. The law imposes a priority obligation on producers and a part of them, identically, on processors. This concerns achieving the utilisation rate. Manufacturers do not directly process waste, so they have no means of verifying that their obligations are fulfilled, except for contracts. Therefore, the requirement of producers to have a pan-European Union is that the fulfilment of the law be verified by the processor by an independent auditor. [[Level?]] Currently, 148 companies are authorized to process electrowaste, 12 of which are protected workshops and 10 of which are processed by electrowaste. There is currently one certified and two more are prepared for certification. These three protected workshops employ a total of 52 percent of people with disabilities from the total number of employees in all protected workshops. Of the 93 083 tonnes of reclaimed products in 2018, at least 44 were processed by processors whose procedures are verified in accordance with the standards and are able to undergo certified verification. Twenty percent of the quantities recovered are processed in equipment certified in accordance with standards. Processing in accordance with standards to return to protected workshops, which mostly dismantle manual, is carried out by both manual and technological, regardless of the quantities processed. In addition, protected workshops have simplified verification conditions. At least 53 authorised processors cooperate with collective systems. Of the processors, at least 66 entities are also the ransom of secondary raw materials, of which at least 24 cooperate with the collective system REMA, which I would further comment on. Thus, 5 232 tonnes per year are processed by 95 processors, which is each average of 55 tonnes per year. The question is how it is for use if it follows legal procedures. And these 95 processors are the movers here of this senseless fight against certification, non-compliance with certain standards and other things. Certification is very important because of the fact that in electrical equipment, and few of us realize this, there are a lot of dangerous chemicals, such as asbestos in such washing machine. And if someone unprofessionally discusses or processes these products, they can do much more harm to these people than to follow some basic procedures. Often, cooling fluids are poorly drained from these processors, the capacitor oils drip freely onto loosely loaded surfaces and other things. That's why I demand certification, which is called for by the world's largest electrical equipment manufacturers. It is not true that these compulsory certifications are already in place in some countries. I can read all of these countries as soon as I find it, and it's not on a purely voluntary basis. Currently, the accredited auditors are authorised to verify compliance of the processing process with the relevant standards of the international associations of 28 non-profit collective systems WEELABEX organisation. The association does not generate profit, it is founded to verify compliance with the obligations of electrowaste processing imposed on producers. The fees collected for certification are used to cover the fee of WEELABEX for the state accreditation granted through the Czech Accreditation Institute, paying CZK 500 000 annually. [[17.50 hours]] If we talk about the costs of each audit, this is a basic fee of EUR 500, which is repeated every year, and the audit report depends on the agreement according to the complexity of the audit carried out. WEEELABEX also provides training for audit firms such as DEKRA, TUW, TERRA and many others that we all know and which certify or audit companies according to ISO standards. The UOHS's statement on the amendment shows that the control of the processors' obligations is transferred to a private company and the Ministry of the Environment has withdrawn its competence and grants it to a third party. The proposal does not contain this - the obligation is not transferred to a single third party. The proposal shall lay down the conditions for the bodies to carry out the checks and verifications. The accreditation body established by the Government of the Czech Republic evaluates compliance with the conditions. The proposed system is open, transparent and non-discriminatory. In the event that the UOHS has any suspicion of illegal link or conflict of interest, it is, of course, in his opinion to investigate such a case within the framework of his legal measures. However, it is not possible to anticipate such a case and priori. As a result of the adoption of these amendments in an amended form, which I will submit in a detailed debate, where the effectiveness of certification on 1 is postponed. 7. 2023, on the contrary, will improve the processing process for all processors who are genuinely interested in processing. As far as the other issue, which is the collection network, was originally set at 2,000 inhabitants in 2014, and the companies that have already prepared for this are now actually bits when it suddenly expands to 10,000 inhabitants. Our goal is for every citizen to have the opportunity to hand over electrical waste at his nearest reach. If a smaller community shows an interest in working with a collective system - there is no doubt, it is happening through firefighters, other contracts and so on and is ensured for smaller municipalities. Therefore, the demand for 10,000 inhabitants seemed inadequate, illogical to me because this dense network was already set in 2014, and my goal is for every citizen to hand over electrical waste to us where it belongs and not to throw it to us where it doesn't belong, and we have reached the maximum rate of recycling. The facts that once again state the UOHS - the setting of the monopoly barrier cannot be said at all. This obligation has already been introduced in the current law, as I have mentioned, and no one has made provision for the entire duration of this legal obligation to review. In 2014, the specification of the collection network led to the fact that they had neither of the seven collective systems mentioned at the time nor have they been trying to create since then, a nationwide collection network of four of them, while representing producers whose products were sold nationwide. This merely confirms their position on the fulfilment of the obligations of manufacturers and the proposal to soften the basic parameters suggests this. If we are to talk about the limits for manufacturers who may be collective system operators, I am also proposing an amendment here. Because if someone wants to create a collective system just specialized for example on bulbs, lights, batteries and so on, the limit was high and we're lowering it to a much lower amount. Consequently, it has been granted collective systems that collect this specific species. At the same time, negative examples that have walked in the past, where collective systems were designed, when one of the manufacturers or collective systems imported a few electrical equipment from abroad under each other and established a collective system. Collective systems were actually completely marginal or special purpose producers in the past established in the Czech Republic, while these producers were not led by an effort to implement the law, but mainly by an effort to benefit themselves. At first, I wondered how to point out that there is a society that is so resentful of this amendment, and I finally decided to mention it. It is a REMA company and you may have noticed in the media that it has given a vague interpretation of what a public collection network is in its register. So if you'd like, you can take the fridge, the curling iron to the State Opera, and so on, because this company lists them at its publicly available location. Who is the REMA System made up of? According to the law, if we have four manufacturers of electrical equipment. REMA The system is made up - the chairman of the board is David Beneš, members of the board are Karel Beneš and David Vandrovec. Shareholders are - the company DITCOM, where names like Ladislav Dušek, Karel Beneš, David Beneš appear. Furthermore, DEWAREC, where the executives are again Ladislav Dušek, Karel Beneš, David Beneš. And DELTASOFT, where the directors are Mr. Dušek and Karel Beneš. These companies established this collective system. So we're going to talk about who we want to help in this market. The last amendment that does not concern this issue is... [[He can't find the evidence.]] I will justify this in a detailed debate where we bring the charges into line. Those who choose also process entire fines under the Waste Act. That's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u13	I thank you, too, and the next in line is Mr Leo Luzar. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the general debate, I will try to explain my motivation for the three amendments to the bill before us. I say to the front that I am not very interested in waste as such, I do not consider myself an expert in this area. It's just remotely close to me, let's say, because the city of Ostrava that I live in has its own waste-gathering business. I was also contacted by the city of Frýdek-Místek, where the municipal waste dump is. And a little bit of the issue from this point of view, many of you would say from the speedster, but yes, I'm trying to understand a little bit. As a member of the Economic Committee where we discussed this proposal, I have been contacted by the Union, I do not want to say small, waste processors - let me not wrong them, so maybe medium-sized waste processors - who have pointed out to me in their opinion a serious problem consisting of the particular certification of the quality of waste treatment. I confess, I don't understand, I'm a fan of standards and mandatory regulations that define certain conditions. Nevertheless, I have adopted their idea and their proposals, which I will then number in the detailed debate. [[18.00 hours]] But what makes me say that? What I think I know is how the Public Procurement Act worked, which has largely contributed to the dissatisfaction of citizens with politics and to the overwhelming victory of the YES movement in elections. This law has been heavily abused for the benefit of certain groups of people and has milked public budgets. And what principle did he milk them with? He milked them with certain conditions, which could only be fulfilled by the choice, the choice or the advance marking. And I'll remind the knowledgeable only three letters of ISO. If you don't know, I'll try to clarify briefly what was going on. This standard specifies certain operating conditions. And the Public Procurement Act said that a company that does not meet specific conditions, for example, by having standardized handling of office needs, has set out how the proof of how the correct circulation of the document should look, etc. should be eliminated. And it became a terrible fashion that companies were already shutting down in the first round -- he doesn't have ISO, he's gone with it. And it wasn't examined whether it was cheap, whether it gave good conditions etc. There has simply been a bureaucratic obstacle, as well as restrictions on access to public procurement. A certain certification procedure is proposed here. And I say well, but I also ask immediately: How many companies can provide this certification? If there's at least one of them in every county, there'll be competition, I'll say good. Anyone who wants to get that certification will be able to visit another region, and the prices for that service will be regulated by the market, and they will be able to choose the cheaper one that will grant it certification, and it will work. But I have been warned that this is not the case, that there is, in a way, a partial monopoly given by lengthening and preparation process. So that led me to adopt their proposals, which are almost the same, that is, either by shifting the deadline of the adjustment, by moving it to the Ministry of these proposals, so that it doesn't occur here that there will be an artificial monopoly directed towards one provider, which will have super business, like those who provided the ISO. Which will be aimed at the big ones who might already have it today because they could afford to pay for it against the smaller ones who maybe don't have the resources and can't afford it. There is, if necessary, such a bureaucratic difficulty in processing that it is quite a problem to go through this. One thing, when I went over it a little bit, I was intrigued, and it's that in the proposal that... in the amendment, I think a colleague, and now I don't know which one it was. But it's just a clarification. It was that the company was supposed to get this certification. But that's where the company parameter and certification stopped me. Most of the time, the certification is made by a responsible worker at the firm, who, out of his responsibilities as a natural person with the certification, ensures that it can work. I can't imagine a law firm certified to do that, and how that would work. So I consider it a logical nonsense, which was introduced there in the preparation. But I firmly believe that this will still be resolved as part of the second reading, and that even the hearing that I'm listening to here will be heard. So much for my general performance. And in detail, I'm going to sign up for these changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u15	Thank you, too. Next is Mr Petr Dolínek, who will speak in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u16	Thank you. I have two amendments to this standard. Of course, I expect that they can still be held before the final vote of the expert discussion. One concerns the amount of the issue fee and the amount of the fee, with the fact that I would like to adjust the fact that cars of the EURO 0, EURO 1 and EURO 2 emission classes are charged on their first registration in the Czech Republic by the amounts of CZK 10,000, CZK 5,000 and CZK 3,000 on the basis of the Waste Act from 2009. The yield was 3.7 billion. CZK and the beneficiary was the State Environmental Fund. Maybe I could imagine that the money could be used more widely, I think the fund used it quite effectively, so I'm sure I don't see the problem there. And because of that, money was primarily used for Green Savings, which I think is one of the very successful programmes that took place here. The introduction of the fee contributed in the year of entry into force to a significant decrease in imports of used vehicles, and I therefore dare to propose here that the change should be that the amount of the emission charge is based on compliance with the emission limit values in the exhaust gases in accordance with EU regulations. (a) CZK 5,000 in case of fulfilment of the EURO 4, 10 000 emission limit values for EURO 3, 15 000 EURO 2, 20 000 EURO 1 and 25 000 EURO 1, if they do not meet this value either. Secondly, the degree of compliance with the relevant emission level shall be demonstrated for the purpose of determining the level of the fee by registration in the vehicle technical licence or in the road vehicle register. It's quite simple. And justification. Firstly, it is one import charge. Secondly, I think we already have enough used cars in these emission classes in the Czech Republic and we do not need to carry any more. Thirdly, when I was preparing it with my colleagues, I had no idea how it would be up to date in the case of e.g. Germany, when Germany makes support for buying new cars, there will be a large variety of older ones again, and I think it would be a shame that most of this country will end up here again. So I think it's better to trade what we already have in our territory than anything else. But at the same time, it does not aim at preventing low-income people from getting a cheap car in some way, because of course it does not concern second and further sales. It is only the first fee on the ferry to the Czech Republic. The second amendment concerns the issue of disabled vehicles, and that is that there I propose to § 102 para. 1 point (f) after the words "with end-of-life and parts thereof' is inserted "and holds an environmental management certificate according to ISO 14001 issued by an accredited entity'. It is, of course, that those who actually deal with car wrecks have to meet some of the primary conditions for their handling, because, given that things are then taken advantage of and then to ensure that it has been expertly discussed and that further, the waste that came out of it could be used and complied with with the standards. It's two things that I don't think are controversial, but of course I understand that there may be some discussion about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u17	Thank you, too. There is no one else entered into the general debate or I see no one from the point of view, so I am ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in any final words. Not interested. There was no motion to return to the committees. So I'm initiating a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. First off, Mrs Eva Fialová, Mr Pustějovskýějovský will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u18	So I put forward a total of five amendments, two of which are always almost identical. And it is because the Committee on the Environment has already adopted a resolution and recommended, so one of them always complements the original proposal and the one is complex whole, so that we then have a simpler vote. So I'm applying to my Amendment 5319, which sets out the parameters of the collective system operator. Complex changer 5322 is also parameters. 5323, which provides for a three-year deferral of the auditor and is again an overall amendment. And the number 5324 is identical and complements the amendment of the Committee on the Environment. And the only one that is new is 5325 who impose fines, also enforces fines. And it's a state-of-the-art settlement with waste legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u19	Thank you. Before Mr Pustějovskýějovský arrives, I will read the apology of Mrs Kateřina Valachová, who apologizes today from 17:00 to the end of the day for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is as a House document under number 5218. My proposal responds to the current state of recycling and material use of batteries and accumulators. The Czech Republic and other EU countries are currently facing insufficient recycling capacity and sales restrictions. The proposal gives the Ministry an instrument that could respond to the adverse situation. In detail, I refer to the written form of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u21	Thank you. Mrs Pěnčíková will be next in a detailed debate. Mr Radim Fiala will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u22	Thank you for the floor. Once again, I'm very brief. I would like to sign up for my amendments, which you have in the system under numbers 5768, 5769 and 5771, including the justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u23	Thank you. Mr Radim Fiala and Mr Leo Luzar will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u24	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I want to apply to my amendments, which are in the system. The amendment under number 5725 deals with the setting up of the collection point system, 5729 is about concentrating storage, dismantling and processing of electrical waste and finally last, 5730 is dedicated to financial motivation for the surrender of end-of-life products. Otherwise, I refer, of course, to both the written form and the reasons which are recorded in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u25	Thank you. Next in line is Mr Leo Luzar. Mr. Petr Dolínek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u26	Thank you for the floor. In a detailed debate, I would like to sign up for prints under headings 5801, 5802 and 5803. I have already mentioned their reasons in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u27	Thank you. Mr. Petr Dolínek will be the last to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u28	I am signing up for amendments under headings 5798 and 5052, which I have justified in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u29	So not the last one. The last is likely to be Mr Elfmark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u30	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for three House documents, under the numbers 5660, 5661 and 5662. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-009-040.u31	Thank you. At this point, I don't see anyone logged in, so I am ending the debate in detail. I'll ask you again about any final words. Not interested. That concludes the second reading of this proposal. We're going to go to the next point and that's
