ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u1	Good morning, honourable Members. Before we begin today's 50th meeting, let me give you an organizational announcement on the 49th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted within 11 hours at the latest and their lottery draw will then take place. So at 14.30, we will continue the adjourned 49th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, point 386, which is oral questioning. And at this point, let me begin the 50th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome you all here. In order to record your participation, I will first sign you out, and I would like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 45 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on 21 May of this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of Jaroslav Dvořák and a Member of Jana Krutáková. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I'm going to vote on the draft verifiers for today's meeting. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number one, 91 Members and Members signed up, for 87, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Mr Jaroslav Dvořák and Mrs Jana Krutáková as verifiers of the 50th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I agree that until the opening of the meeting they asked to apologise for their absence to the negotiations by the following Members: Vondráček Radek within 12 hours for working Marek, Baxa Martin from 12.15 for working reasons, Běhounek Jiří - working reasons, Bláha Jiří - working reasons, Fridrich Stanislav from 10.30 - health reasons, Vrána Petr - working reasons, Kolovrobřík Martin from 11 to 19 hours - working reasons, Kozlová Lenka - health reasons, Matyášová Eva - family reasons, Mauritzová Ilona from 12.15 - Votava Petr, Mračková Vildumetzová Jana - family reasons, Nacher Patrik from 10.30 - working reasons, Okleštěk Ladislav - health reasons, Ožanová Zuzanová Zuzana from 14 to 18 hours - family reasons, pávek Petr - health reasons, Rakušan Vít - working reasons, Staněk Antonín - Výborný reasons, Tureček Karel - Lubomír Volný, family reasons, Válková Helenová Helena. Members of the Government: Benešová Marie - morning meeting, working reasons, Petříček Tomáš until 10.30 - working reasons, Plaga Robert from 14.30 - working reasons, Toman Miroslav - working reasons. Mr Martin Kupka, for the whole of today's day for working reasons, Mrs Hyťhová, today from the beginning to 9:45 for health reasons, Mrs Věra Adámková between 9.00 and 11.00 for work reasons, Mrs Jana Levová from 9 to 10.00 for work reasons, Mr Stanislav Fridrich today between 10.30 and 19.00 until the end of the day for a doctor's visit. We will now proceed to the 50th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act, the House shall decide only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. With priority rights, I have Mr. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr. Fiala. - With a replacement card number 18, President Ivan Bartoš votes. - And the next priority will be given by the Minister of the Interior and Deputy Prime Minister Hamáček. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. [[The microphone wasn't on.]] I've already let you go, you can. And I will ask for peace in the Chamber so that we can discuss this point with dignity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, many people are talking about the ongoing crisis, the ongoing pandemic as the greatest challenge of one generation, which is probably true. Others are even talking about the greatest challenge since the last world war, which I would not agree with so far, but it is humbly necessary to admit that none of us can be sure whether we are really at the end of this crisis. So far it seems, and we can probably say that the economic downturn in most of the world will be deeper than it was during the financial and economic crisis that we all experienced and remember. Some economists claim that the fall will be short-lived, others wonder about this optimism and disagree. What seems to be a consensus, and what is more or less clear, is that individual countries, including the Czech Republic, are ready to spend record money to help the economy. More massive, stronger, more money than it was at the time of the last economic and financial crisis I've mentioned here. As all of this concerns us here in the Czech Republic, today, 28 May 2020, and why we have decided and agreed to call on this extraordinary meeting together with the Pirates Club, for which I thank them, by the way. So why have we called this meeting, and why do we want the negotiations to take place here? I think we agree that this stage of the pandemic, the stage of the coronation, the first stage, that we somehow managed to do this stage. Yes, it was chaos, there were huge problems, but I don't want to go back to that today. Yes, we could have been better prepared, and we could have done some steps and processes more logically and rationally, but I don't want to go back to that today either, I won't go back to the mistakes. The purpose of this meeting, at least for our Citizen Democratic Party, is that we take a breather from most of the bans, restrictions, when the entire society has relieved itself from the bans and restrictions, at least from their vast majority, and breathe into the period when we are returning to normal life, so that at this stage here in the Chamber of Deputies, we can make some sort of revision. To also tell ourselves what is important in the future. Once again, I am not here today in person to reprimand the government for its mistakes, but we are here to review where we are, how we have done it and, of course, we have also said, and I consider this to be the most important place we want to go and how we want to prepare ourselves, how we are prepared for the next development. And I'm asking the government to understand our initiative this way, to see it that way. It's a handshake. And we expect the same answer from the government here, from the government coalition here in the Chamber of Deputies. My call for a start is therefore: let us approve today's agenda, make this meeting, make it possible so that not only those with priority rights can speak, but all Members, let us listen and try to have fun and, if necessary, agree on what is essential. [[9.10 hours]] Most important to me, I see three basic big tasks facing our country in the coming days, before the government, before Parliament, actually before us together. The first big task is how we learn to live with coronavirus. Because he probably didn't disappear. If we listen to epidemiologists and other experts, they won't disappear soon, they'll be with us for a while. And our goal must be that we never have to move on to shutting down the whole Czech Republic across the board again, so that we are as prepared as possible for another, perhaps not a completely favourable option for further, future development. And we would welcome the government's more responsible approach to this, to this preparation for these variants of development, perhaps even worse scenarios, than in January of this year. That's when we wanted to talk about it in the Chamber of Deputies. The Minister of Health has laughed at us more or less, but I think - and I mention it also so that it doesn't happen again, so that we don't repeat the mistake today, so that we can talk about these things here and how we're all prepared for any other worse scenarios. I know we're more enlightened today. We are all more enlightened, but we must not achieve, we must not fail to feel that we already know everything. Because what we achieved was at the cost of great economic damage. Yes, at the cost of major economic damage, at the cost of all-round bans, orders, and restrictions. It was probably necessary, we all supported it here. We supported it, too, so I'm not criticizing this. But a second time would be a similar reaction after what we've been through, what we've already experienced, what we already know, a similar reaction would already be a serious failure. Because we already know what we're dealing with and who needs to be protected, where these people need to be protected, and we know what to prepare for. The second great task for the government and, of course, also for Parliament is to save and protect economically those who have a fair right to such protection. And those who have been economically affected by this crisis are not people who would mishandle, who would behave irresponsiblely, who would simply have bad business or bad business. And I also want to point out that the virus didn't stop their business, the disease didn't stop it. That's also important to say. Their business stopped from day to day, from hour to hour stand. Yes, stop. He had a reason. We supported it politically. So I am absolutely not questioning this decision. But if we all said "A," then we all have to say "B." People who are affected, entrepreneurs, operators, businessmen, employees, they are entitled to it because they enjoy certain constitutional guarantees. And it follows that the help that must be given to them is not only the good will of the government, in no way, or Parliament, but it is the duty of the state. And unfortunately, and let's talk about that, too, and we'll talk about it, there are still large groups of people who haven't received the help yet, or who have arrived at it in a form that I would say is rather symbolic. And let's do inventory. Let's do inventory on this issue as well. Now is the time. We cannot be satisfied that the government has prepared some aid programmes that initially showed a error rate that started at 80 percent. But we cannot be satisfied with the fact that after almost three months the error rate is still at one fifth or one third, respectively. It's not okay. Just as it's probably not okay if the virtual train with the supposed cargo of helping CZK 1.2 trillion, so the train with this help, when it comes to people, has only CZK 30 billion, and it doesn't actually reach everyone. That is also what we need to talk about in order to do this inventory, because something is not working as it should. And something doesn't work as it should, certainly for that reason, when we're only talking here after two and a half months about how to help little eseróček to survive this situation at all. And I do not consider, for example, that I do not consider it right, for example, for the state to stop traffic, but that the banks then assess who to help and who not to get help, as is happening in the COVID II programme. So let's listen to each other. Because I'm not talking about numbers, I'm talking about specific people, specific fates, and we're talking about these people. That's why I say, now is the time, let's do inventory. And that is why we also propose, let us have proper supervision of the supposedly largest special-purpose money package in our country's modern history. I think it's gonna be the kind of supervision we're offering that comes to a proper ODS meeting, that it's gonna be a handshake to the government. A government that, of course, can't control everywhere. And it's going to be an inventory in which we can take into account incentives from people, and they're going to go to the government in this way and that way, and they're going to be able to act accordingly. And this, of course, also concerns the inventory of medical supplies. Because, and let's just say that, and let's act accordingly, what has been bought so far, of course, is not the end. In a way, that's just the beginning. And we need to prepare ourselves on this, too, and we also need to learn from the shortcomings that were clearly here. Because we already know what can happen, we want to be prepared, we need to be prepared. And buying medical supplies is an important strategic community. We all represent people here, and citizens deserve us to stop the Eldorado, which has been going on for the last two months at the Ministry of Health for the purchase of medical aids. To make this, such a situation, such as doubt, so that it will never happen again. That was the second big role I've seen. And the third big role that I will mention here and which is the task of the coming months will undoubtedly be the subject of a political struggle, that is clear. And the task is, the great task is to put the Czech Republic on its feet. And the day before yesterday, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš made it clear as he imagined. He just wants to dust off old plans, old plans that didn't work before the crisis, say, here they are, and let's move on like nothing happened. But I say that it is impossible to continue where it ended before the crisis. The government says, I've heard it again, heard from the Prime Minister again, that he's gonna pull out the $8 trillion investment list from the drawer, and that's gonna save us. But that's not the answer. It's not an answer to the crisis either. But it is not an answer to the mismanagement that was here before the crisis, to the inefficient state and to the growing bureaucracy that we have all witnessed. The government says that if it wasn't for the crisis, everything would be okay. But it's not. I would like to draw your attention to the latest report by the Supreme Audit Office in 2019, where the Supreme Audit Office notes that many essential systemic matters in our Republic are not in order. And the fact that today they will be in the world and with us, and we will tolerate it, that they will tolerate deficit or large budget deficits, that is just one thing. But with us, the budgets were unsustainable before the crisis. And that's not what I'm saying, or just me, and I'm saying it, too, but the Supreme Audit Office says it. The state's expenditure before the crisis has exceeded its revenue. The competitiveness of the Czech Republic has fallen by three places, we are 99th in the public sector performance in the world. It's a disgrace! And most of last year's 10% increase in state budget spending was spent by the government on state consumption. Please, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not saying that you can read that in the Supreme Audit Office's report. But I'm just reminding you today, because we have to discuss how to put the Czech Republic on its feet in the coming months, weeks and months. We're gonna have a political confrontation about this. And we're ready for that. So I'm not going to elaborate today, but I'm going to repeat -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u3	Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna interrupt you. The noise in the room is so big, I can't hear what you're saying anymore, and I don't think it's the perfect relationship. So I'd like to ask all of you to keep your voice down so we can listen quietly to the performances that are before the agenda is approved. Thank you. Please, Mr. Chairman, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u4	Thank you, Mr President, and I will repeat the fundamental political thesis around which everything revolves. If we want to put the Czech Republic on firm feet, we cannot continue where we left off before the crisis. This is the main political message, and that will be the political dispute that we will have here with the government. But today I'm turning to the government with my hand in hand. Let's do inventory, start help where it hasn't come from, and let's tell ourselves how we're gonna protect our country from Covid-19, from its possible return, from some worse version of development, and how we're gonna save our country from further global closure, and how we're gonna avoid the mistakes that have happened in the past. Let us not make the same mistake today as the government majority made in January of this year, when we were told that everything is under control, there is nothing to talk about and we will not discuss this point in the Chamber of Deputies. Today, please listen, let us hear, and therefore I also ask the government to inform us here on the occasion of this extraordinary meeting - not just us but also citizens - about how we are ready to prevent any second wave. So I beg you, and I ask that we approve the agenda for today's meeting, to listen to each other, to draw conclusions here, and to prepare for the future together. It's open, but as they say, good luck to the ready. And the Czech Republic and citizens deserve to be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u5	Thank you for your performance and the next performer will be Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Mr. Jan Hamáček. President Ivan Bartoš and President Marian Jurečka will prepare themselves with priority rights. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u6	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear Government, fellow Members, I have decided to speak now, because the concept that the opposition has chosen in drawing up the proposed agenda would mean that at least four times would be expected of me, and I feel that the performance would be fragmented. Ad a). And ad b) I think it's a good idea for me to start by telling you how the Home Office sees it, and I believe that the information that's going to come out here maybe even in your speeches, and maybe you'll have some answers to some questions you'd like to ask in your performances. At the same time, I want to say for social democracy that we are ready to support the draft agenda as proposed by the appellants. Now, let me introduce you to the Ministry of the Interior's view of the past weeks and months. I will begin on Monday, March 2, when I came to the government with the idea that it would be appropriate to declare an emergency on the basis of constitutional law number 110, on the security of the Czech Republic. It was March 2nd, the virus spread to Europe, on that day Italy had 2.064 cases and 52 dead, in Spain there were 120 infected, in France 191, in Germany 150 and so on. There was a crisis coming at us, and the Czech Republic, like the vast majority of the countries in the world, was not ready for it. There were 10,000 respirators and the same number of protective glasses in the warehouse of state's material reserves. Ten thousand respirators according to the statement of the Director of the Faculty Hospital The motol at the top of the pandemic would be sufficient only for his hospital for 10 calendar days. This means that the total emergency supply of the Czech Republic was sufficient for one faculty hospital for 10 calendar days. The Ministry of Interior has already issued a tender for suppliers of respirators and protective glasses on 24 February. Why am I talking about this? I want to show what the situation was not only in the state's material reserves, but what the market situation was. On 24 February we issued a tender for respirators and sunglasses, the deadline for submission of tenders was 3 March. We had to cancel the selection procedure because no one applied for it. Neither a Czech nor a foreign supplier. The procedure under the Public Procurement Act didn't work, no one applied. Therefore, on 3 March we decided on the possibility of purchasing personal protective equipment in the form of a negotiated procedure without publication and I authorised every organization of the interior department to declare JŘBU up to CZK 3.5 million. In this process, suppliers volunteered for the Ministry of the Interior - and now please listen - 110 pieces of FFP3 respirators with a price for one piece of CZK 412 and 2,000 FFP1 respirators with a price for CZK 49. This means, even in this type of procurement procedure, that means JŘBU, we have registered suppliers in the total amount of 143 320 without VAT. From what I said, it is absolutely clear that there was not enough supply in the Czech Republic at the time from Czech or foreign suppliers. The respirators exceeded the price of CZK 1000 per piece in the early March 2020 period, and then the government of the fourth was forced to regulate prices by government regulation. The main reason I came up with the emergency proposal at the time was to ensure the purchase of emergency supplies of protective equipment not only for the IRS, but also for medical, social and other facilities. With this proposal, as you all know, I have failed, I have been accused of making it PR, of being irresponsible. If I am to appoint a response from the opposition, President TOP 09 said that declaring an emergency is excessive, my colleague Kalousek said that due to the three infected, the emergency is not announced, and Mr. Mayor Hřib at that time announced to the public that he would never recommend wearing a drape to people. That was March 2nd. I'm really not happy that the further development and the global pandemic have given me credit. On 12 March, an emergency has already been declared. On March 11, WHO announced a global pandemic, which started not only in the Czech Republic, but also throughout Europe, and the world began to buy protective equipment. Each country began to adopt regulatory measures for the sale and export of protective equipment, and we really only had hours left on 12 March. Because, on March 2nd, there were three infected, March 12th, 116 and another 10 days later, 1,047, and there were another 150 cases a day. And at that point, the quarter of a million people in health care and the other hundreds of people in the front line were actually at risk of life and health, because individual health care facilities had a supply for the day's unit. And the directors were faced with the choice of sending their employees without adequate protection into the fight against this contagious disease and into direct contact with the infected, and we were in real danger of what we saw in Italy, simply collapsing the health and rescue system. On 14 March a meeting was held at the Ministry of Industry and Trade with the participation of the Prime Minister and selected members of the Government, and I left this meeting on 14 March with the mandate of the Prime Minister to try to secure central purchases of protective equipment. On weekends 14 and 15, I assembled a team that spent the next two months working at least 18 hours a day, and his work continues to this day. I want to take this opportunity to thank people from the interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the representative offices of the Czech Republic in China, the Czech National Bank, the Ministry of Transport, Health, Prague Airport, the Ministry of Finance, Customs Administration and all those without whom we could not manage this extraordinary task. And we all believed that we were doing this to save people's lives. We saw what was happening in China, we saw what was happening in Italy, Spain, or Iran. No one knew how this pandemic would proceed in the Czech Republic and how deeply we would have to go through the crisis. And the necessary amount of protective equipment was absolutely extraordinary. On 19 March the President of the Central Crisis Staff, Professor Prymula, defined and subsequently the Prime Minister approved the minimum number of protective equipment required under the central purchases for the comprehensive security of the Czech Republic for a period of six weeks. These figures were: 120 million drapes, 18 million FFP2 respirators, 10.8 million FFP3 respirators, 1.8 million medical protective clothing, 12 million gloves, 300,000 health shields, and one million quick-tests. As the crisis began, the need for protective equipment continued to grow. For example, the gloves reached up to 10 million units a week. Ten million units a week. [[9.30 hours]] We were also running out of other medical supplies, which used to be bought in the European Union as a standard, such as swabs. To take this sample, we had several days to buy them under the threat of stopping testing and immediately after they arrived, so they were transported directly to the sampling points by the helicopters, so that there was no delay. So if we can recapitulate a little bit more today, I'm convinced that we've chosen the only possible way, and there was no alternative. I would like to take advantage of my performance and recall some facts and disprove some myths. Fact number one, I already mentioned that. There was no adequate offer of personal protective equipment in the Czech Republic from Czech producers at the beginning of the crisis. I tell you again with full seriousness that the protective equipment we needed for our doctors, paramedics, firefighters, police officers and all the other citizens of our country, we could not buy in the Czech Republic in the required amount and time. Czech producers did not have the goods in volume that would be sufficient for six weeks, and on 14 March 2020, they did not have the goods in volume that would be sufficient for one day of crisis. And some types of protective equipment in the Czech Republic were not at all and are not available today, more than two months after the announcement of the emergency. We, as an interior, tried to buy in parallel with the large deliveries from China from Czech producers, but there were a maximum of tens of pieces from individual producers, and still in some categories. We have recently withdrawn all capacity from companies such as OKULA, OKULA Nýrsko, Spur, a. s., nanoSPACE, HEALTHEX, Zubří Gumárny, Sigma Lutin, AVEC CHEM and other companies. However, the pandemic symbolized the drapes and respirators, and it is forgotten that the drape and the respirator are only one part of the complete medical protection of a doctor or a paramedic who approaches the potentially infected patient. We needed a suit for each one of the paramedics, two gloves, glasses, a protective shield, shoe warmers. If the respiratory tract respirator FFP3 was needed for workers in direct contact, a protective suit of the biological level at a similar level was needed for the rest of the body because the entrance gate of the infection may not be just the respiratory tract. On March 14, 2020, these suits were no longer in the Czech Republic or Europe. And it was the Czech Republic that supplied protective suits from our deliveries to Slovakia, Italy, Slovenia, North Macedonia or San Marino based on urgent requests for help. On 24 March 2020, Spain urgently requested the urgent assistance of NATO allies through the special alliance centre for EADRCC crisis operations, and the NATO Centre forwarded these requests to the allies. On 29 March, the Czech Republic was the only NATO state to respond to this challenge, to Spain and sent a gift of 10,000 protective biological suits, for which Spain thanked us. On 29 March 2020, the Government of the Czech Republic also discussed the possibility of purchasing protective equipment, including protective biological suits, through joint purchase of NATO member countries through the NSPA, a NATO agency. The government decided to use this alternative and ordered protective suits for the army of the Czech Republic. Those suits have not been delivered to this day. So it's really number two. The purchase of protective equipment was not possible from another European Union country and the protective equipment was not fully secured either through the European Commission or through the North Atlantic Alliance. The government of the Czech Republic from Prime Minister to individual ministers contacted its counterparts in EU countries with a request for assistance in obtaining protective equipment, but they all had the same problems as the Czech Republic and no one was prepared for the pandemic. If today we are discussing possible alternatives to securing safeguards for the Czech Republic at a time of crisis, we must openly admit that the crisis was not prepared for the various European states, but also for the international organisations to which the Czech Republic is a member. Both the European Commission and NATO had no European crisis capacities, and the alternatives offered to Member States were also based on purchases in China. Moreover, they were not particularly suitable for the Czech Republic in terms of time and quantity of supplies. I have already mentioned the possibility of purchasing protective material through NSPA NATO. At its meeting on 30 March, the Government decided to make use of this offer. The NSPA concluded framework contracts with suppliers to provide services and materials that are the same for all members, and for the first order the government ordered a million pieces of drapes, 300,000 respirators, 10,000 protective suits, 25,000 pieces of protective glasses and a million pieces of protective gloves. [[Nesroz.]] All suppliers proposed by the North Atlantic Alliance came from the People's Republic of China. The protective suits have not yet arrived, the NATO contract for protective gloves has been cancelled due to the lack of such goods. The Government of the Czech Republic has also participated in four joint purchases organised by the European Commission; none of them have been implemented so far. The reason is that prices are still being evaluated and the question is a very long delivery time. In addition to the joint procurement process, the Commission began negotiations on 20 March 2020 on the direct supply of protective glasses, masks, respirators and fans directly with the Government of the People's Republic of China and requested the Czech Republic to express its interest by 23 March. The Czech Republic confirmed its interest and expressed its interest in the supply of protective glasses, masks, respirators and fans. On 18 April 2020, the European Commission announced a direct purchase of 10 million KN95 masks, which are GB 2626 class respirators, which should be delivered after 1.5 million. pieces. Medical devices were distributed according to the key needs created by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control ECDC, the Czech Republic was not included in this programme. At present, the respirators bought by the European Commission from the European Structural and Investment Funds' financial resources do not match the quality of FFP2 or FFP1 and the European Commission withdraws these funds from individual Member States. Of course, the Czech Republic would like to use NATO and the European Union's help in the future, but I believe that these organisations will learn from what I have just said, and they will be better prepared for the next crisis. Third fact. The Ministry of Interior has acquired protective equipment in China within the given time possibilities in the required quantity, in adequate quality and adequate price. Unfortunately, anyone who claims today that there was a different path than direct purchases from China is above ideology over the lives and health of people in the Czech Republic. Neither the European Commission, nor the North Atlantic Alliance, or the President of the United States of America have found any other solution. During March and April, the People's Republic of China covered 70 percent of the global demand for medical material needed to combat the virus. At the end of April, China's Minister of Foreign Affairs said that more than 20 billion are demanded in China from tens of countries around the world. pieces of respirators and drapes, billions of protective suits, glasses and other medical supplies. The Chinese market has been overwhelmed by global demand, unhealthy competition by purchasing countries, insufficient capacity of certified health products for a similar situation, lack of material for the production of medical devices in such a short period of time and lack of transport capacity, including overflow of flight space. The acquisition of protective equipment in China took place at a time of extensive quarantine measures in the People's Republic of China, whether internal or international. The GOC has also repeatedly changed and tightened regulation for the sale and export of medical material from the People's Republic of China in response to exports of poor quality medical material. The Ministry of Interior, assisted by the Joint Czech-China Chamber of Mutual Cooperation, the Embassy of the People's Republic of China in the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Health of China, regional governments, in particular the Government of Shanghai, the Customs Administration of the People's Republic of China and China Eastern airlines, has created a unique mechanism for the supply of protective equipment at European level. In the period from 15 March to 27 May 2020, the Ministry of Interior concluded 29 contracts for nine categories of protective equipment with 19 Chinese suppliers, of which 9 are direct producers, 7 authorised distributors and 3 suppliers. In each category, 2,050,000 protective biological suits of the highest class six were purchased at an average price of USD 23.69 per piece, 137 million. medical and medical drapes at an average price of 0,38 USD, 11 568 800 medical wards GB 19083 in the price of 2,379 USD, 7 522 392 GB 2626 in the average price of 2,127 USD, 2,050 thousand. Class six protective medical glasses at an average price of $6.16, 250 thousand. Protective health shields for multiple use at an average price of USD 2.79, 65.250 thousand. gloves at an average price of 0,048 USD, 3 mil. protective medical cuffs at an average price of 1,135 USD and 1 mil. rapid tests at an average price of 6,24. [[9.40 hours]] Prices of purchased goods were most advantageous at the place and time of purchase, both in comparison with Czech and international suppliers. For example, deliveries of NATO's largest military alliance from China to the Ministry of Defence were purchased at USD 2.75, with GB 2626 respirators, the Ministry of Interior purchased this respirator for USD 2.17. That means there's a difference of half a dollar per piece. Medical medical drapes were purchased by NATO for 0.54 USD, Ministry of the Interior 0.38. At this time, the public sector also bought drapes from Czech companies such as: company Batist, for prices from CZK 15 to 25 per piece, which is 0.6 to 1 USD. So supplies from China were cheaper than protective equipment purchased by the Ministry of Interior during the period in question from Czech suppliers and were also cheaper than supplies purchased by other contracting entities. For the goods supplied, the MV has the necessary documentation according to the European Commission Recommendation No 2020/403 on conformity assessment and market surveillance procedures in relation to the risk of Coronavirus infection. The Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic controlled the registration of health products at RMPA China, a Chinese equivalent of our SÚKL. The quality control of Chinese suppliers has also facilitated the issuance of a joint public decree of the Ministry of Trade of the People's Republic of China, the Customs Administration of the People's Republic of China and the National Institute of Health Products No 5/2020 regulating the export of medical material of 31 March. What's the key - The Ministry of Interior has set up a quality control system in cooperation with a single notified workplace in the field of personal protective equipment, i.e. the Research Institute for Safety of Work, and I would like to thank this workplace for its invaluable cooperation. It was the only functional way to verify the quality of the goods and to have maximum assurance that protective equipment issued from the Fire Rescue Corps warehouse would protect users of protective equipment. The Ministry of the Interior tried to verify documentation on protective equipment and the way of the Czech embassy, for example, in the UK or Poland. We also experienced situations where the certificate confirmation came through the official route and 24 hours later his questioning came. I want to say that, in this context, I will find a certification system in the United States with the FDA, the CDC and the NPPTL more functional, transparent and much easier to verify the supplier. And this experience might also be an inspiration for the ECDC, and then Europe would sort out the relatively inconspicuous number of few trusted testing institutions. I want to say that two suppliers did not pass the VÚBP control from the Ministry of the Interior's suppliers. In one case, the supplier's funds were refunded, in the other case, the replacement of the 3M9501+ brand quality respirators from 3M China Limited, a 100% subsidiary of the US SM producer in Shanghai. Protection funds from China were transported from the warehouse of the Ministry of Interior in Shanghai to the Czech Republic for a total of 57 years. It was three years of the An-124 Ruslan machine under NATO SALIS. The price of this Ruslan's air transport for one flight 1.3 million. EUR, capacity 590 cc, price for 1 cubic meter 59 491 CZK. We have 11 cargo specials from Boeing 777 from China Eastern. Price of air transport for one flight 810 000 EUR, transport capacity 500 cubic meters, price for cubicle 43 740 CZK. Forty transport specials Airbus A330 to China Eastern, price of air transport for one flight EUR 410 000, transport capacity 200 cc, price for 1 cc 55 350 CZK. Two flights to Smartwings, the price of air transport for one year EUR 200,000, the transport capacity of 50 cc, the price for 1 cc 108 000 CZK, and one flight to the military specialty of the Army of the Czech Republic. Within the framework of the saving of funds and in the light of the withdrawal of the epidemic, the remaining part of the material, which is still in the warehouse of MV in Shanghai, is transported by rail, trains, from 29. 5. up to 10 6. with estimated transport time of 15 days. Members of Parliament, on 14 March, on the basis of the Prime Minister's task, I was in a situation where the Czech Republic was not prepared for the onset of an epidemic at either government or regional or municipal level. I took responsibility for securing most of the protective equipment that was distributed to the regions of the Czech Republic. We had two ways: either to buy protective equipment in crisis mode by buying in China or simply not to have it. There was no Czech route on 14 March 2020. There was no European solution, there was no international solution. Every state of Europe relied on itself. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, after Canadian planes returned empty from China, identified the situation as the Wild West. Governments blamed each other for the theft and overpayment of security supplies, but to be honest, the only real comparison of the effectiveness of the chosen solution would be a simulation of how a pandemic in the Czech Republic would go without these central purchases. I'm not the only one who doesn't even want to imagine the option, because thanks to what we did, our people on the front line didn't even have to strike as medical personnel in a number of European countries in plastic garbage bags. By March 12th, I faced criticism of overreacting and spreading panic. After March 13, I was criticized for the lack of emergency supplies, of the lack of safeguards for all citizens of the Czech Republic, and today we face criticism that we have taken these measures excessively or inefficiently. We forget very quickly that there was an emergency, and we forget what atmosphere we lived in. Four days after my assignment from the Prime Minister, on March 18th, the first aircraft landed, it was a special of the Army of the Czech Republic. On 20 March the first China Eastern special landed, 21 March the first Antonov. It is often mentioned that the material from China was a commercial purchase. Yes, he was. And that is why I find it almost incredible that during one calendar week we were able to buy, declare, transport to the Czech Republic from a country that is a thousand kilometers away and was tossed by the COVID pandemic. I would like to thank the Fire Rescue Corps for the precise and rapid distribution of protective equipment to the people on the front line. Everyone worked under extreme stress, mistakes could have been made unintentionally, but I am proud of all those involved in this process. We are ready to submit to the control of the Supreme Audit Office, the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic and other responsible bodies and we will provide full cooperation in examining our work. What I cannot accept, however, is the politicisation of the control process, and I will therefore not vote in favour of the creation of a parliamentary inspection committee. Let the state control authorities work. I believe that at least in the Supreme Audit Office, we all have high trust. The crisis that is over and ahead of us at the same time is supposed to be an incentive for all of us to make our work more effective. The Czech Republic, unlike other countries and thanks to the measures taken, went through the crisis as one of the least affected countries, and I beg you not to get into the situation that after the battle, everyone is a general. I feel that the biggest criticisms of us are either those who have been home office for six weeks and have returned to work and now have the feeling that they will tell us how we should have done it right, or those who have been buying drapes for 20 crowns a piece, the respirators of the FFP2 for 200 crowns apiece, and when the crisis came, they used protective resources secured by the Ministry of Home Affairs or Health and slept completely in their epidemiological plans. I do not want to repeat the situation on March 2, 2020. European and American health institutions, the World Health Organization, the North Atlantic Alliance and Czech epidemiologists are warning about the arrival of the second wave of the epidemic. COVID-19 is a vicious virus and has already surprised us once. And if we need the full cooperation of the political parties represented in the House somewhere, it's up to us to protect our people from the arrival of the second wave. I am actually convinced that my people have done a good job, no one has abused the situation, no one has enriched it. And I believe that the crisis crews deserve thanks, respect and respect, and not political dehonest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u7	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior. Before I give the floor to the next priority right, I'm gonna read the apology because it's all piled up in here. So the cancellation of Mr Petr Pávek's apology on Wednesday 27 May from 12 to the end of the day and on Thursday 28 May from 9 to the end of the day. Furthermore, Mrs Kateřina Valachová's apology for today's 49th and 50th meetings for health reasons and at the same time for tomorrow's 49th meeting for the whole day, also for health reasons. Mr Jiří Kobza also apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the day for family reasons. Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies today from 9:30 to 13:00 due to urgent work duties within the Ministry of Defence. Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková, today by 10:30, for work reasons. Mr Karel Schwarzenberg, today from 9.00 to 11.00 for reasons of health and Mr Radim Fiala, today between 9.00 and 1.00 for reasons of doctor's visit. Mr Pavel Juříček from 14.30 to 19.00 today for reasons of work. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, colleagues, representatives of the government. I would like to thank you for having this extraordinary meeting today thanks to the signatures of Members. And I've also been following the statements made by the leaders of the government party clubs who have said that the program will be approved. This means that people who do not have the so-called priority right will also be able to speak. I hope that Minister Hamáček will not run away, because some of these questions are also wanted by other Members, not only those with priority rights, and I think they should be able to do so during the meeting. So, before I begin, in a positive way, the minister here had this priority word. He defined himself against a lot of things that, first of all, never came out, and secondly, criticized things that weren't even true. So I'll take two things that were tearing my ears out. Members of the Pirates - and I believe that Members of other parties too - were certainly not at home during the emergency period. At its daily meetings, the government spewed a lot of decisions, measures and in the emergency regime as well as laws that we were forced to read throughout, explore those addictions and then vote on them during the House meeting the next day. We have addressed both economic issues and issues in the region. We were partners during the emergency situation to the government, although our proposals were often not heard. To purchase and lack of medical resources. This is where the data came from Minister Hamáček. I sometimes feel a little sorry for him to have to perform on the same stage with Prime Minister Babiš, but I don't think he was on the same stage at the time of the famous press conference, but maybe I'm wrong. So the moment the delivery of medical aids finally started, it was the time after Prime Minister Babiš spoke at the morning press conference and lied to the citizens, lied to the audience and claimed - it's not true that our paramedics didn't have respirators. Tell me where, and I'll personally deliver it to them tonight. I quote Prime Minister Babiš. That's what he said at the press conference in a moment, and we know it as it was. I also agree with the data that was said here by Minister Hamáček, but it was before these aids started flowing into the Czech Republic through that air bridge. So that's what it's all about. I would also like to thank people who have managed with dignity at the level of the crisis staff to supply this supply with aids, but clear contradictions between what the Prime Minister or the Minister of Health said and what was said here for the facts about the timeline are here, everyone can look it up on the Internet. And now only briefly to discuss today's meeting. I think it is very important - and we can also lean on what Minister Hamáček said here - to see what happened in the past in the past, where we still have deficits. It is especially help, and effective help, groups of people, families and companies that have either been forgotten or that help is either unavailable or inadequate at the moment. We'll have to make that happen. That's a minute's rest. The second big question is not only the purchase of medical aids during the emergency period, but it is a frontload of the Czech Republic for the future. I believe that at that critical moment, which was at the beginning of March, Minister Hamáček tried to do his best. But since then, two months have passed, and now we are talking - and experts confirm this - about the possibility of the second wave of covid in autumn, and the Czech Republic should be prepared similarly in autumn, the stocks are not endless, and therefore it is important not to go in this Wild West, which went in March, but systematically address companies, create stocks, verify certification and go in this direction. Anyway, I think we're gonna have to keep talking about this. The key issue is also the steps that concern health - I believe that my colleague Olga Richterová will be present here - and these are aspects of both smart quarantines, which must finally be triggered to work; it is a question of providing data not only to Members here and also to information, but also to experts and scientists who can continue to work with them, and also to genuinely validate those decisions. I once again wanted to thank President Chvojka, President Faltýnek. I heard their statement to the media this morning that the agenda would support this meeting. I would also like to thank everyone who has prepared a performance. We have about 14 resolutions that respond to our detailed analysis and evaluation of the individual steps. It's not a criticism. Many things have succeeded, but it is important for us what we learn from this for the following period and whether we can do a possible second wave of COVID-19 or any other unknown danger, starting with drought, computer system failure or some new unknown disease, significantly better, because we are actually dealing with that future now. I thank you for your support for calling for approval of the agenda for this meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u9	Thank you. Another priority right will be given by Mr Miroslav Kalousek, who I do not see here in the Chamber, so I will give the floor to the next, and this is Vice-President Okamura. Then we have another order, and this is Vice-President Filip, Minister of Health Vojtěch, Mr Farský and Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking all citizens of the Czech Republic, including health professionals, shoppers, first-line vendors, many volunteers and many other citizens for their involvement and helping to address the emergency situation around the coronavirus. I think we have all shown in the Czech Republic that we can work together and we can get along, we can help each other and we can solve difficult situations together. And that, I think, is very good news. As the call of the SPD was answered after the government's purchase and distribution of protective equipment and other medical equipment was checked by the Supreme Audit Office during the emergency period, thereby disproved or confirmed suspicions of overpriced contracts, including corruption, we decided to await the conclusions of the Supreme Audit Office, which has undoubtedly adequate legal powers, much better mechanisms, experience and personnel background for controlling the management of public funds than the MP's commission of inquiry. The Supreme Audit Office will best assess and analyse in detail billion-dollar purchases. And as we know, the Supreme Audit Office has already included these checks in its control plan. It'll take months. There is a great opportunity to independently and apolitically analyse how our system and organisational components of the state worked during the crisis, how the state administration of material reserves worked, for example, both individual ministries, namely the Ministry of Health and Interior and their subordinates and their managers, by extension their ministers, and from mistakes that may have not been avoided, they may have learned and prepared systemic changes for future crisis situations. [[10.00 hours]] One thing is clear already today, and that the state really did not have and does not have any system that would trigger in the event of an epidemic. Yes, officials have emergency plans to do when they fall on aircraft officials, you hear well, but they don't have instructions and plans to proceed in the event of an epidemic. I understand that at the moment we have faced a regular fluff epidemic, where over 900,000 people have fallen ill and about 1.5 thousand people die a year. So in the case of covide, from this point of view, we don't know if it was an epidemic, which may be because we don't have the criteria for what is and what is not an epidemic, and the second thing is that we still don't know how many people have actually met the virus, how many have really gotten sick and how many have actually died from it. Numbers from the world, but also parallel testing in South Bohemia, show that there were far more people with the virus than official tests show, and that maybe more people also got sick of it, but they just didn't know it. On the contrary, it is clear that only covid directly killed fewer people than stated. One of the subsequent outcomes that I expect from the Supreme Audit Office's audit results should be an analysis of our readiness, the efficiency of the state institutions' work during the crisis, and the evaluation that we should come out of during the debate on changes, more precisely the processing of a real pandemic plan, in case we are struck again by a dangerous epidemic or some other crisis situation. The many times mentioned confusion and strange prices, even ten times for the same goods purchased by two different ministries at the same time, are a direct indication of the absence of any state plan to deal with epidemics. It is already apparent that one of the main causes of most deaths, e.g. in Italy, the failure of the Italian health system to respond to the epidemic and protect the most vulnerable, which unfortunately had there most in Europe. As far as the SPD movement is concerned, we certainly don't want to kick the government cheaply and say what should be done if, because after the battle, everyone is a general. But what we're talking about here, or I'm talking about on behalf of the SPD, is that we're hoping to learn from the crisis that we're going to analyze what happened and prepare for the future better. And the government can accept such changes so that the lives and health of citizens will be better protected in the future, while avoiding information confusion, overpriced purchases and unnecessary steps. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u11	I thank you for your speech and ask the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u12	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will be brief, but I cannot comment on the proposal for this extraordinary 50th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I would understand if we included an evaluation of the first wave at the current meeting, as the Czech Republic has done, what are the results of the first wave of pandemic. But on the other hand, I see no relevant reason for the other points of our meeting so far. Because the way in which we will evaluate the groups of citizens who have received or have not received assistance is still unclear. First, it is unclear whether the money is on the way for those citizens that we have already passed the laws on, whether it is a matter of authorities that can't handle it, or whether it is a matter of the complexity of the system that we have passed here as a law. As far as the government's information on purchases is concerned, we've already talked about this once, and I want an evaluation of this matter after the Supreme Audit Office's control is over. Nor do I have any reason why I should not trust the SAO at this time and set up a committee of inquiry, although critics can answer me that the commission of inquiry has a different competence than the Supreme Audit Office. But I believe that the government bears political responsibility either way. But I have to say, some of the sayings amaze me. First, of course, the question is whether some entrepreneurs stopped the state by their decision, or whether the state decided not to stop the business, but to stop the pandemic, because the reason was not primarily that we would shut down the economy, but that it was necessary to protect the most valuable things that people have, and that is their life and health. And I have reminded several times that, according not only to the international pact on civil and political rights, but according to the Czech Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, I see the protection of life and health as the highest level of human rights, only further are political rights, and at that third stage the rights of economic, economic, social and cultural, outside it is still in international law, because there is an independent international pact. And it's also important to see that some of the businesses in the pandemic have earned money. Because it is obvious, and it was the subject of a speech by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior that the price on the market for example. mask or protective gloves, as we found out, which we could not obtain within our alliance, whether within the European Union or within NATO, and we had to look for relatively complex steps on the world market by manufacturer and supplier, when we had previously liquidated some manufacturers and suppliers of our own incompetence, for example. just because we didn't let them make them for the State Material Reserves Administration. And I would like us to have a real evaluation after that, for example. When assessing the state's 2020 final account, they said what could be better ensured if we remembered the state's material reserves in the state budget and individual ministries would buy in them what they had. Nor can I say that this was primarily the responsibility of the state, because some of the businesses were at the edge of the world's competition, and I am not convinced that this aid would be effective even if the crisis were not. But I don't mean to say that I didn't positively accept the government's proposals to ensure that there was a difficult life situation for employees, for self-employed companies, or for small firms that didn't really have as much reserves as multinational corporations that were going to take over part of the destroyed productions so that they wouldn't get in the way. In my opinion, there is also something else that needs to be addressed, namely the deficits that have been in our various departments before the crisis, the deficits of our decisions, where to head the Czech economy and what things to hold up as crucial infrastructure for the state. We, when we proposed the crimes of privatization, have already outlined as the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia that the privatisation also resulted in the disappearance of companies related to the critical infrastructure of the state. It's not just about transport systems, it's not just about energy, it's not just about how the state needs certain things that can't be replaced in a classic market environment, and every state that thinks about things that can happen, thinks about crisis situations, keeps them and tries to keep them running or get them started fast. These are both production equipment and, of course, also potential reserves in materials and supplies. [[10.10 hours]] As for the very situation that awaits us as the Chamber of Deputies, it must be seen that the last pandemic plan of the Czech Republic is from 2011, which was a response to the second wave of floods in 2010 and was also a response to the economic and economic crisis lost in 2007, 2008 and the following years. The pandemic plan is proving insufficient because it did not count on the consequences that the Czech Republic and the other 180 countries of the world are experiencing. It must therefore be said that we will be in front of us that the Government's proposal for a change in the pandemic plan should be assessed not in a kind of open atmosphere, but with great understanding both from the point of view of health, social, economic and, of course, constitutional law, because it will not be easy to provide those capacity for energy, transport, but ultimately for protective equipment and chemicals, which is a lesson from this pandemic for the citizens of the Czech Republic, but also for others. I would like to thank those who were on the front line, whether they were health professionals, police officers, firemen, but also transport workers, in social services. And I would also like to thank those who have been able to rationally evaluate the situation and decide so that the Czech Republic is based on this global assessment as a state that has taken measures in time, properly and, of course, with the human mistakes that we will be discussing here. I would not want us to make a political fair out of the entire evaluation, where individuals will overtake each other, and I think that if we want an honest positive assessment of what has happened, but also of the errors and shortcomings and the change in the pandemic plan, we must do the evaluation of the first wave on the basis of actual data that will lead to the fact that we will not add exactly inaccurate numbers, but that we will talk about how our health systems, social systems have dealt with this, but how other areas of Czech society can cope with it. I would like to say that it is necessary to say that there will be a much more serious task ahead of us, and here I disagree with what Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Petr Fiala said that the deficits of the state budget of the Czech Republic were critical before the beginning of the pandemic. It's not like that. If we had a state debt of CZK 1.6 trillion, that government debt has been incurred gradually since 1997, and I am saying this quite seriously. Yesterday we discussed here, I could not speak in the debate because I was in charge of the meeting at that moment, in response to some colleagues when they talked about how many municipalities were gathered. I would have to recall the decision of the former Minister of Finance, the Kočárník, who decided on the first, I would say, removal of those authorities in 1995. I would have to remind you, I wasn't here at the time, but as a practical lawyer, I represented a number of municipalities that had huge problems with it, and in 1998 we did the first budgetary determination of taxes, which meant that relations between small municipalities and the larger ones were aligned. It had a huge impact, but eventually part of the functional model, which was significantly damaged by then Minister of Finance Miroslav Kalousek in 2008 and 2011, and I could prove on the figures what it meant for cities and municipalities back then. What is the blackout of the pandemic and the revenue blackout, allow me to judge completely soberly that only one can pay for each crisis. If there were calls for us to be able to be on the same ship and to be able to integrate society, then we must say that the share of the cost of the crisis must be borne both by the state and by the employers and by the employees, and we may have managed to do so in part in those compensation laws. But as far as the state is concerned, the state has its citizens, and they can no longer be affected for the second time, so the structures of the state in the structure must be affected as they are. This means, if they depend on shared taxes from 8 to 9 per cent of the region and 23 per cent of the municipality, so also the share of costs must be borne together, that is to say, both by the state budget and by the municipal budgets. You will surely recognize that the community is better off than the employee is dealing with whether or not he has the resources for the month, and the community is easier to bridge than the citizen in need. I don't think that was often mentioned in the structure. And as for the deficit, and I am going back to what I was going to say, 1.6 trillion will increase after the crisis, and it is up to us to be able to start our own responsible work to start the economy by going back to lubricating the state debt, which has started to grow here since 1992 and 1995, respectively, up to the amount of 1.6 trillion crowns. Because we've been able to stop him since 2017, or 2018, after all. And I'm proud of it because not every state could say it like that. And our result will certainly not be as positive as it was at the end of 2019, but on the other hand, it should lead to the fact that if we succeeded once, we can do it again, and after starting the economy to find the courage to take those steps that will mean within globalisation and thus the global threat to find enough courage to deal with it in a local way and start up as local production through the self-sufficiency of the food that we are able to produce here in a temperate zone, we will certainly not produce what does not belong here, but so that we are able to produce in a way that will less threaten us in the event of another pandemic. I, for the reasons that I set out at the outset, believe that the agenda of the meeting, as proposed, does not express the need that the Chamber of Deputies should address today, apart from perhaps item 1 and that we can also resolve in the context of a proper meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u13	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I'll read the apologies. Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologizes today from 9.45 to 12 o'clock for health reasons. Mr Ivan Bartoš apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Minister Jana Maláčová apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the day for work reasons. And Mr Marek Novák apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr. Adam Vojtěch, Minister of Health, will speak with priority right at the moment and Mr. Farský will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, allow me, too, to comment on this issue and on the agenda for the meeting, respectively. on the development of the situation with regard to the pandemic COVID-19. Many things have already been said here, and many of them can certainly be agreed with. The truth is, and it has to be repeated that we are facing an unprecedented situation and no Ministry of Health, no Minister of Health has ever had to deal with a situation like this, just like no government. We have dealt with the situation with this disease and the problems associated with it since practically January, when, on the basis of developments in China, we first applied measures on the territory of the Czech Republic concerning especially controls at Prague airport. This may have been remembered by few people that at that time we were actually one of the first to implement truly hygienic-epidemiological rules for arrivals from China. We subsequently banned flights from China, which was also one of the first countries in the European Union to do so. We faced criticism for it then, too. In the end, it turned out that our approach was right, just as we did for the first time, or as one of the first countries, they ended flights from northern Italy and so on. It was clear that we were simply taking these steps as one of the first countries in Europe and that this approach proved to be a correct, proactive approach. If this crisis has taught us something, it is that we need to be quick and we need to act proactively, because every day more, and this has turned out in countries that unfortunately have not managed the situation completely, as they wish, and every day additionally means a huge risk of multiplication in the number of infected and in the number of patients who are hospitalized in intensive care units. I don't think it's necessary to describe the scripts here. What's good is that we're simply not talking about some theory that we're not talking about what this disease can cause or could cause. Today, I feel like everyone's expressing themselves, everyone's having an opinion about it. But this isn't a theory. That's not some theoretical thought. Here were clear scenarios from specific countries that we can name here. And to this day, those countries are having huge problems dealing with the disease. We know how the pandemic is gradually moving, how the epicentres of the disease are moving from Europe to the United States, virtually. from China to Europe, from Europe to the United States, from the United States to South America. And today, virtually the whole world is affected by the disease. And we can see what disastrous consequences this disease can have especially for health care. And I must say that I consider it to be one of the greatest achievements - my, the Ministry of Health, this government - that we have protected our health services, that we have protected our hospitals, that we have protected our health professionals, doctors, nurses, other workers. Because we didn't really face the situation that we see in other countries where there are thousands of infected paramedics who pass the infection on to patients where we have 300 deceased medics in the UK on the front line when they were taking care of patients with COVID-19. Nothing like this happened in the Czech Republic. And it didn't happen precisely because we were proactive and that we introduced those measures very soon, and because of that, we avoided those catastrophic scenarios. And certainly one of the reasons it didn't happen was to buy and secure protective equipment. I must say that I could sign virtually everything that Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček said here, with the market situation back when it was. And it's also a little forgotten how the situation was developing, and it's blaming ourselves for why we weren't better prepared, why there were no higher reserves in the Treasury. I looked into the history of how the supplies were actually set - the roughly 10,000 FFP3 respirators and other protective devices. When we look at the development, basically the standardization of stocks in the Administration of State Material Reserves was thus set up for 15 years. Fifteen years with him, even though there were epidemics. There was an outbreak of avian influenza in 2005. There was an epidemic of swine flu in 2009, ebola between 2013 and 2016, virus zika in 2015, SARS in 2002 and MERS in 2012. During the whole time, the normalizations of stocks in the Administration of State Material Reserves have not changed at all. No Minister of Health, who was at the time, and you know that those ministers took turns quite often, decided that the number of protective equipment set up in the supplies would increase massively. So let's just take a real look at the history when we blame ourselves if we shouldn't have acted faster and how the supplies were actually set up. The fact that it was a mistake, the fact that those protective devices today, when we look back on it, were desperately little, and we couldn't even imagine the real need we would have, is simply true. And that is one of the things undoubtedly, and if this meeting here is to bring something and bring some conclusions from the perspective of vision and lessons learned, as is being said today at European level, it is one of those things, really ensuring sufficient supplies, massive stocks of protective equipment, but not only protective equipment, even lung fans and other capacities that are needed to cope with similar epidemics, virtually. pandemic. So without a doubt, this is one of the things where we have to learn where we have to make changes. And that is already happening. You know that the government has approved an increase in reserves in the Treasury. I assume that this will also be discussed by Vice Prime Minister Havlíček, under whom the Administration of State Material Reserves falls. But, of course, we, as the Ministry, put the requirements in place in the order of millions of pieces of protective equipment. The total amount is somewhere around CZK 3.5 billion. And I think it's quite right and that this is really one of those lessons that we need to take in the future, that the supplies were completely inadequate. But the problem is that no one could control the effects and the fact that there could be an epicenter of this magnitude in Europe. We were then, and this was also said, given the task of being the first resort from the government to start buying protective equipment. But I must remind you before that, at the beginning of February, we have already joined the common tender of the European Commission. At the beginning of February, the European Commission created the so-called joint procurement action - a joint purchase that it organised for the Member States. We signed up there as the first state in the European Union. Somewhere I heard from some people that the Czech Republic was not active in this regard. It's not true. We were one of the first to sign up for this joint purchase. Unfortunately, we still don't see a drape from it. Two months lasted this joint procurement action - a joint purchase action mechanism. And unfortunately... If we were to rely on this joint purchase organised by the European Commission - I say, we volunteered, I repeat, at the beginning of February - we would not have a single protective device here to this day. Well, let's just look at the context. It is not without interest, and this was mentioned by Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, and I do not want to be a priori critic of the European Union that the European Union has now purchased 10 million security devices of the class FFP2. And where did she buy it from? She bought them from China. Not from Europe. Not from European sources from European companies. So it is also a kind of symbolism that, unfortunately, Europe is playing a second violin in this regard in terms of some self-sufficiency concerning these protective devices. This applies both to the Czech Republic and to all countries of the European Union. Because, if this were not the case, these protective equipment would certainly be purchased within European resources. But unfortunately, these are quite inadequate, just as they are inadequate in terms of medicines and the pharmaceutical industry, where we are unfortunately also dependent, and I am not really excited about this, in third countries, especially China or India. And this is also one of those other lessons learned, other lessons that we must take as the Czech Republic, as Europe. [[10.30 hours]] As Minister of Health already in January at the EPSO Health Council, I pointed out that Europe must focus on self-sufficiency in terms of medicines, including protective means, that it must have a clear strategy so that we do not depend on supplies from China or India, which, by the way, closed its borders and exports at that time, and then, of course, the problem can arise and can be relatively massive. And I'm certainly not happy that we had to provide those protective equipment in other countries outside the Czech Republic, outside Europe. But that is simply the situation, that is the state of the world, that is how the situation has evolved over many years, and we all have to learn, and Europe in particular. In this respect, the Commission is preparing a strategy to be more self-sufficient in these key, strategic commodities, such as medical devices, such as medicines. Today, the United States of America is dealing with this as a real issue of national security. Within Congress, this is addressed as a matter of national security, of self-sufficiency in drug policy, of self-sufficiency in medical devices, because it is similar to when you are dependent on imports of some other strategic commodities such as oil, gas, as well as medicines. So in this regard, the whole of Europe must learn and have a clear strategy and vision to prevent it from being dependent on imports from third countries. But in short, such a situation was, so we had to buy protective equipment in China as the country that is the largest producer in this regard, although interesting, and it should also be remembered that at the time of the crisis, when China was the country where, in fact, at the time of December and January, when China alone was the pandemic, it was China that was desperately buying personal protective equipment from all over the world in January and February, so that even China did not have its own production capacity to protect its inhabitants. On the contrary, China was buying protective equipment from all over the world at that time - in January and February. So this also shows something, it simply shows the situation as it was, which was absolutely critical, because the global demand for protective equipment was many times higher than the real production capacity and supply. But in the end we did it, although the situation was very difficult and there were a lot of problems, so the Ministry of Health provided protective equipment for hospitals, for key hospitals in this state, which are especially state hospitals, faculty hospitals, at which was the greatest burden in caring for covid positive patients such as Bulovka, General Faculty Hospital, svatý Anna etc. etc., and for all these hospitals the Ministry of Health has provided complete protection, complete protective equipment so that health professionals are not infected, so that the disease does not spread within these workplaces, and it has succeeded. And for that I am very pleased that we have indeed managed to protect our health professionals, protect their health and lives, unlike other countries, as we see in statistics, and the Czech Republic can thank all doctors in this regard. All doctors. Not every Minister of Health can afford to thank all doctors after this crisis. And in this regard, I think that we have actually done a great deal of work, together, of course, the whole government and the Ministry of Health department. Overall, about 70 miles. protective equipment, pulmonary fans, laboratory complement, which we secured from approximately 100 suppliers, of which 20 Czech producers. From 100 suppliers of 20 Czech producers. Sometimes it is simply presented that we only shopped abroad. Yes, the large volumes do, because in short, the production capacity is not like that in our country, but otherwise we tried to make the most of the available Czech production capacity at the time. Maybe I'd just remind myself whether we set what she is or what the situation was. The Ministry of Health was the first resort to draw up a negotiated procedure without publication as the first contract for protective equipment. It was 10. 3. even before the first deliveries came from China. Indeed, we were the only resort that could buy these protective equipment. The challenge was public. 10. 3. negotiated procedures without publication, then under the Public Procurement Act. And in this challenge, where anyone could have applied, any company that would have offered protective equipment came forward to us in general roughly or really eight companies, one of which didn't even finally deliver the goods. And I'm just going to say what those capacities were like at the time: FFP1 respirators 11 thousand, FFP2 - 9 thousand, FFP3 Klatt - 3 840, FFP3 another firm 10 thousand. pieces, another company FFP3 - 2 thousand. pieces, another company FFP3 - 4 900 pieces and last FFP3 - 10 thousand. pieces. These were all the offers we received at the time on the basis of a public call for a negotiated procedure without publication, not hundreds of thousands, millions of pieces. In short, this was the situation at the time when we started shopping and when there really were no other capacities than what I just listed. We tried to do our best at least within these possibilities and consequently we had to start shopping through Czech companies and abroad. Not only in China, but also in Malaysia, Vietnam, other countries where these protective devices are produced. And I say again, 70 miles at the end. the protective equipment that we have provided for our health professionals, for our hospitals, and not just hospitals, we have also provided it for practitioners, for outpatient specialists, for dentists, for pharmacists. This means that we have ensured really practically complete protection of Czech health care, Czech hospitals. The Ministry of Interior provided for regional hospitals. And I really consider this to be a huge success, because if you look at other countries where, for example, in the UK, health professionals were given protective equipment about three weeks ago somewhere in Turkey, we were indeed a country that was one of the best-stocked protective equipment from all over Europe. And on those numbers of infected paramedics and especially dead first-line paramedics, it's pretty obvious. So much for this subject, where there are often misinformations, and it is necessary to set the situation straight. And I'm not even talking about prices anymore. We're still debating prices here. I'm sure there might be another debate about it. We also have no problem at all subjecting ourselves to the Supreme Audit Office's control. It begins on 1 June it will be launched, and we are certainly prepared to cooperate with this independent institution as much as possible. I also fundamentally reject the creation of a committee of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies. I really consider this - firstly - duplicate and pointless, and I think we should let the Supreme Audit Office do the work. We will cooperate with him, as we are now also subject to the control of the Ministry of Finance and other supervisory authorities, bodies such as the GFŘ etc. We have a very clear conscience that we have actually acted as much as possible. And today it's not just some theoretical debate. We have a contract register here. Pirates like the contract register, so it would be good to look at the roughly 500 deliveries that are already out there today. And not from the Ministry of Health, not from the Ministry of the Interior, but from other public institutions, such as regions, cities, various contribution organizations, hospitals, and look at the prices at which all these public institutions, including the various cities under the leadership of opposition parties, were buying. Look at the average prices they were buying for, and look at the average prices the Ministry of Health bought for. We have made this analysis clear and it is clear that the Ministry of Health, with regard to respirators, is below the average price on the market at the time, which we can really set according to published orders from individual public institutions, because those orders are there, everyone can look at them and compare really with the prices of the Ministry of Health, when when when I look at it really, as it was then and both the prices differed, and at a time when the Ministry of Health bought the respirators of FFP3 for about 80 crowns, 83 crowns, so here were various institutions that bought for 350 crowns, 400 crowns. So where are we going to compare the price at the time and place of the usual, the market price? [[10.40 hours]] I've already shown the volatility of huge prices on one show. Maybe I can show this place again how the prices of the respirator developed on the market in March and April. [[He's showing the materials.]] This is actually based on the register of contracts. And here you see the curves of the FFP1, FFP2, FFP3, how the prices were volatile every day. It was practically not a standard market. This isn't a standard market, this is a stock market. This is the stock exchange where the prices flew by hundreds of percent every day within all the public institutions that were buying. I'd be happy to give it to everyone. We did the analysis. It's a good thing we have a contract register, that we can all check it out. And we can really compare the prices for which the Ministry of Health has purchased and for which some cities, regions, municipalities, hospitals, etc. have purchased, in short, all those who have to publish their purchases in the contract register. So I think that this debate is definitely going to be about something other than what it was in those last few weeks, where there were all kinds of nonsensical stories being constructed, because here it clearly shows on the data that there was simply no price at the time and place usual, so there was no market price. It was simply due to the totally critical situation and the Ministry of Health purchased very advantageously, very advantageous protective equipment in this context. As for the other things that concern, let's say, the real health issue of the epidemiological area, so here we are - and I don't want to go into details, you know what all the measures we have taken, restrictive measures very much, but they really stopped the increase in the number of positive patients. It is clear that these measures have certainly led to this, because when we look at other countries that have not implemented the measures, the number of positive infections there is twice as high as the number of deaths. Sometimes there is debate about the mortality that only around 315 people died in the Czech Republic, that it is actually nothing compared to other diseases, with the flu etc. But why did this happen, why is the number so low? It's because the measures were taken. And that's clearly conclusive again, not a theory. This is based on a real comparison with other countries. It's often referred to here by Sweden. Beautiful country. Sweden, which has gone its way, is called the Swedish road today. Unfortunately, the Swedish road has been lined with the highest number of deaths since 1993, as the Swedish authorities have now published. Sweden in April of this year has been the highest mortality since 1993. And that needs to be realized. And if we didn't take these measures, we are certainly on this Swedish path, which from their point of view - and I don't want to evaluate it - is correct, even if it is shown and based on some prevalent analysis within the Swedish society, that their immunization, that is, the percentage of people who have antibodies, is about 7 percent, over 7 percent, so the question is whether this is really something that we can take as the right path - the highest mortality in 20 years and only a seven percent prevalence of antibodies in society. I just don't think it's the right thing to do. We can also look at Belgium and other countries. So precisely because we've taken these measures, the mortality rate in our country is so low. And I think it's quite obvious to everyone today. As far as future developments are concerned, you know that we have planned a plan to disengage those restrictive measures that we are following, which we are carrying out, as we have presented it, and that is exactly how we are going according to the plan. We've even speeded things up, some of the unwinding, because the epidemiological situation is going well. Now we practically have all the operations, risk operations, various activities, shops, etc. Disengaged. The only exception is more mass action, where we assume a certain restriction, because we perceive it as a significant risk. Now, on Monday, the events were unraveled to 300 people. If everything goes well, it's eight. 6. we would like to increase the number to 500 people and from 22. 6. to 1,000 people. That's some kind of view we've got so far. If this situation develops well, then we can talk about some further increase, but certainly not the action of tens of thousands of people this summer, we have clearly announced that it is a huge, huge risk. The epidemiological situation in the Czech Republic is generally calm, that is to be said. We publish these data regularly, and I don't want to repeat them here. Everyone can look at them, they are updated three times a day on our site, which we constantly supplement. Today, there is information from individual districts as the epidemic develops, what districts are affected. And we currently have roughly two problematic locations. One is Prague, where we record the so-called community spread of the disease, where we simply are not often able to trace the contact of the positive patient, because it is simply a patient who has been infected in this community way, even though there were some outbreaks of the disease that we had to deal with together with the health care professionals and resolved. And now the situation is probably the worst in Karvinsko, where we have also left some restrictive measures concerning visits to health care facilities, social services, as well as limiting the number of people at mass events to a maximum of 100. The situation in Karvinska is complicated, that must be said. Today we have over 300 tested positive. They're both OKD miners and their family members. And we need to keep an eye on the situation. So far, it seems that the disease is within this designated community, which means it doesn't spread in any massive way to other districts or regions, even though some contacts are also recorded there. Hygiene is working on it, and we really need to focus today - and that may be another thing that should come out of it, that we certainly don't want to, and I certainly don't want to turn off the so-called whole republic during some future waves, to turn off the economy, to do those horizontal restrictive measures, unless absolutely, absolutely necessary, but really focus on the localities, the local outbreaks, which we are currently doing in cooperation with the military. For example, in the case of Karviné, where we used several sampling teams, where we took 2,500 thousand people. It's a really big field test. We are now preparing to re-test those negative persons from a given examination to the beginning of June, so that we can be sure that there has not been any further increase in the number of persons. That means we're going to re-test over 2,000 people again, and I think that this is the way, really, to focus on local outbreaks, to do massive testing, to quarantine people, to quarantine their contacts, and to prevent any spread of the infection from happening to other sites from the outbreak. So far, so good. We succeeded in Cheb, we succeeded in Domažlice, we succeeded in Mariánské Lázně, we succeeded in several fires in Prague, in the Central Bohemia Region, and I believe that we will succeed in the Karvinska case. We cannot, of course, rule out the fact that these outbreaks will develop here, or that they will appear here, it will undoubtedly also be related to the unwinding of travel, it is something where there is also a risk that will increase. But we are ready and certainly using and using smart quarantine tools. I would perhaps refer to this as the last topic. It is precisely because we now have the strategy to address the outbreaks in the locality, so we are very much helped by the smart quarantine. Already now - I think it can be confirmed here by Mr. Governor Vondrák, who also commented that the really clever quarantine helped us very much as well as in the solution of the locality in Karvinsko, where several thousand phone calls were made. The memory maps were triggered, etc., I don't want to talk about it in detail here. [[10.50 hours]] In short, the smart quarantine, even though it's, let's say, the regime is one-zero, it's not quite a robust mechanism, so it helped in these very places. We certainly want to further develop this clever quarantine, and it is one of those pillars that we want to build to be robust so that we can face the possible second wave or other infectious diseases. It's not just about the covid. There might be another infectious agent coming in. There could be any other threat. And we need a clear mechanism here. We have already managed to build a large number of things on the green meadow during this epidemic, with the UHIS we have created a really massive information system for ISIN, where data is transmitted from laboratories, from regional health stations, from hospitals. We're mapping intensive care capacities, we've got National Intensive Care Control. We know at every moment how many covid patients we have, what condition, if it's a mild, moderate, severe condition. If those patients are stationed on an artificial pulmonary ventilator. If they're located on ECMO's out-of-body circulation. We have all this, and we don't process this data, we have it at our disposal, we have it online, it's never been here. And it turns out that, of course, the electronization of health care is one way to prepare for such threats. This is definitely where we're gonna want to continue the electronization, the data sharing. We've created an e-request as a tool where we can simply accelerate the procedures of the patient's indication, patient's examination, findings. The e-application is used in this way. So maybe these are also things that are very important, which have accelerated, adjusted, and working, I would say, thanks to this crisis. Of course, they still have a number of shortcomings, but they work very well in general. And because of that, we were able to cope with the situation, even at the beginning it was very difficult. And just a smart quarantine is one of those tools that will help us do it, with those additional tools like e-glove, map.cz, memory maps and so on. So we are able, if it works well, and I believe that we will, that we will all do our best to make sure that the smart quarantine 2.0 is built as we imagine it within the county health stations, within the Ministry of Health, so that we can be able to track positive contacts as quickly as possible, or positive patients and their contacts within a maximum of 24 hours, so that the disease simply cannot spread within the given locations, given outbreaks somewhere further to the Republic. So far, so good. We're all doing our best. Because the job isn't over, she's gonna keep going for the next few months. We are working with an army that has proved to be a very good partner with our experience in crisis management. So that's where we're on the same boat. It also shows that there is a need for additional cooperation in dealing with these crisis situations. It's not just a question of health care, but when other departments are involved, other files are so that we can handle the situation. So much for me. Or I'm ready to answer the questions. And let me conclude by thanking all citizens for their patience and responsibility during this crisis and especially all health professionals for their work they have done. I am glad that we have managed to implement the Czech health care crisis without major problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u15	I thank the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch for his performance. Before I give the floor to Mr Farský, who is speaking with priority rights - Mrs Pekarová Adamová prepares herself - I state two apologies received: Lukáš Bartona between 14.00 and 21.00, i.e. until the end of the day, because of the hearing, and Vice-President Tomáš Hanzel apologizes between 10.20 and 12.00 for personal reasons. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, even though it has not looked like that for a long time, we still do not have an approved programme. And I just want to say for the mayor and independent club that we're happy to support him, just so that we can be open here to discuss all the four proposed points that come to me at least for anyone who doesn't have a black conscience, absolutely conflict-free and important in order to be better prepared for a possible and unintended second wave than we could ever have been prepared for the first. It is important to discuss this, of course it is important to learn. We all make mistakes, especially in situations where we are faced with such a crisis. And I'm sure the discussion here is appropriate. Therefore, our club will support the approval of this programme so that we can have a debate here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u17	Thank you, Mr Farský. Now, Mrs Pekarová, Adamová. Mr. Miroslav Kalousek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u18	Dear representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, dear to the public, I present to you with a request for approval of the programme of this extraordinary meeting and also as a petitioner, draftsman of the establishment of a committee of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies for the purchase and distribution of protective equipment and other medical material by the organizational units of the Czech Republic at an emergency time. It is this part of our proposed programme that I particularly want to focus on, however important all the points that we should discuss are, of course. I propose that this committee be set up with 45 other Members, and that is why it goes safely beyond the required one-fifth of all Members, as the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies require of us here, which is why I would like to clarify more why I think this is an important step. The proposal to set up the commission of inquiry is included in the 50th meeting programme, which we should have, or whose approval we should be voting on shortly. That is why I would like to ask you, not only on my behalf but also the other 45 Members, so that, among other things, this item can be discussed. We have already discussed the central purchases of protective equipment to which the government approached during the emergency situation through individual ministries in the Chamber of Deputies. However, many unanswered questions remain. Since the purchase of protective equipment was carried out during an emergency, in particular on the basis of an exception under Section 29 (c) of Act No. 134/2016 Coll., on the award of public contracts, and goods worth several billion crowns were paid from public sources, and given that a number of cases have already been presented in the media regarding suspiciously high prices, orders of low-quality protective equipment or products with invalid certificates, and that our questions have sometimes not been able to be addressed either by one of the ministries or by the other ministry, i.e. internal or health services and their ministers, to provide relevant answers, we believe that the setting up of an investigative commission, which would map the management of public funds, is simply appropriate. It is undoubtedly in the public interest to subject all purchases to scrutiny. Often here or in the media, members of the government say that it is not for the Chamber of Deputies to deal with purchases that are already being checked by the Supreme Audit Office. The fact that they are being investigated by the SAO should not be an apology or an excuse, it is precisely a warning that there is really something wrong here, and the Chamber of Deputies, which is in control of the government, should certainly not resign to their rights and obligations at the moment. That is, moreover, what we have here is the Rules of Procedure which, in its Section 48, allows the Chamber of Deputies, on a proposal from one fifth of Members, to set up an investigation committee to clarify the important facts, which may then provide the necessary documentation, require the necessary explanations, interrogate witnesses and so on. Here I would like to quote the words of the Minister of Health, Adam Vojtěch, who delivered exactly a month ago in the Chamber of Deputies, on 28 April, when the meeting was also on the agenda for central purchases of protective equipment. I quote: "So let's really evaluate this objectively. I think even within a really time frame. Let the bills be made. Let's just make the accounts when the situation really gets sorted out. We don't have a problem with that. Let him control himself. I don't have any problem with that. But just at this time, judging on the basis of data that are simply incomplete, which changes every day, is not entirely fair." End of quote. That's a month old quote. And today, we have heard from the Minister that, although control is, it is not the commission of inquiry. Although he claims that his conscience is completely clear, and that he therefore stands up for his steps and actions as such by the Ministry. So if you really stand up for them, Minister, I do not understand your opposition to this initiative. [[11.00 hours]] Emergency status is over, central purchases are also completed. Therefore, the Minister should not have any control problem, as he himself claimed, and therefore I assume that the members of the ANO movement will support the establishment of the Commission, because within the Commission we want to obtain objective information, to address the whole situation on the basis of comprehensive data, documentation and to explore them in depth. Not just here by individual speeches, when you can't react too much to all the facts that sound in them, so you can't go into more detail. And that committee could actually go. I would also like to remind you that the Ministry of Finance also started to examine the purchase of protective equipment and the argument that the matter is being investigated by the SAO, and there is no need for further investigation, is a bit lost. Why not a multi-stage check, why not more eyes that can find possible shortcomings? Of course, contrary to the SAO investigation or the Ministry of Finance, the meeting of the House of the Commission is generally public, which allows taxpayers to receive objective information on how their money has been handled on an ongoing basis. The money that was purchased for is precisely from the taxes of our citizens, companies, and I see no reason why they should not have this information during the investigation itself. The latest reports show that only imports of all material were paid by the Ministry of the Interior - i.e. only for the transport-logistic part - 700 million CZK, for the material itself another 4 billion, and of course other billions are also in the Gesture of the Ministry of Health. So, overall, it's almost CZK 10 billion from public money. Of course, let us also not forget that if the facts found by the Commission of inquiry suggest that an offence has been committed, the Commission of inquiry may notify such a fact to the authorities involved in criminal proceedings. I appreciate Mr. Hamáček's approach, who said he was ready to defend all the supplies that his resort secured because of the COVID-19 epidemic. And I believe that ČSSD colleagues will allow this to enable their chairman to also support the setting up of an investigative committee with their votes. Minister Vojtěch, on the questions of Václav Moravec, said that he was not afraid of the SAO's controls. But today, both of them spoke differently, and they both said that as far as the committee of inquiry is concerned, they did not see the reason for its establishment. If they are really behind the declarations made until then, I see no reason why they should defend the committee of inquiry. What exactly is the purpose of this committee? It is not only a collection of all the materials necessary for the purchase and distribution of protective equipment and other medical material in an emergency period from individual organisational components of the State and an evaluation of the effectiveness and transparency of such purchases, compliance with the necessary quality, but the Commission should also propose systemic changes and recommendations to ensure transparent and efficient purchases and ensure effective distribution of products by individual organisational components of the State at the time of emergency and in the future. Sadly, instead of pursuing as much transparency as possible in light of current uncertainties, we have been presented here to amend laws such as the Public Procurement Act, which have just given room for further doubt and speculation. The argument is often used, not only here within the House, but also in the media space, but also in the media area, a very common platitude is that it makes no sense to establish a commission, because no committee has ever solved anything. We've heard it in the media a thousand times. So why does this institute still work with us? Probably because we are parliamentary democracies, that we still have a democratic rule of law in which Parliament has a controlling role to play against executives. And if anyone is questioning the Institute of Investigation Commission, he can also question the right of Members to information from the Government, he may question the right to interpel or, for example, the Government's duty to participate in the Chamber of Deputies at all. But we don't really hear that from anyone here. So I see no reason why suddenly one of the institutes that allows the Rules of Procedure should be so fundamentally questioned. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would of course like to ask you to approve the proposed programme at all, so that we can discuss the item at all, and that we can discuss the proposal of 46 Members who have fulfilled the requirements of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and on the basis of it propose the establishment of this commission. I think it is essential that other Members can do this without prior rights, so that they can make a clear statement, so that we can discuss this, and by voting in favour of the programme at all, we will give them room to do so. Of course, among other things, among other points that are equally important and for which this discussion will certainly also be necessary, and there will be a lot of important information from it not only for us but also for the public. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u19	Thank you, Madam President. President Miroslav Kalousek will now speak with priority rights. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor. The President said this essential to the agenda. I'm not gonna repeat the arguments after her. Allow me only two comments on the previous speakers, on President Filip and on Minister Hamáček. President Filip said how the government debt began to accumulate since 1997. So maybe we can remember that it has accumulated in the Czech Republic since 1993. It is part of the Klausian myth that we had balanced budgets in the 1990s. Please, they didn't. We had a balanced balance sheet of the state budget, but the losses were in transformational institutions, whether they were called the Consolidation Bank or the Czech Financial Bank, and those losses in these transformational institutions were not included in the balance sheets of the state budget. The state budget balance sheets were not included until the amendment to the budget rules, which was approved in 2000. Only since 2000 do we really have all the losses and deficits recorded in our balance sheet. Until then, it has been hiding after various rocks and it has been claimed that we have balanced budgets. That, I think, is quite important for budgetary history to remember this sometimes. Second point, to Minister Hamáček, who repeatedly - if he said it only here, I might not have responded, but he wrote it in about five conversations he had. He always says, "The Kalousek said there were no signs of an emergency due to three infected people." And the criticism was unauthorized. Well, that Kalousek didn't say it like that. That Kalousek said that if Minister Hamáček wants to declare an emergency in the three infected, he probably has information that the public doesn't have. And I think today we can say yes, that was a true statement, Minister Hamáček had information that the public did not have. We can discuss whether it was right that he said it or not. I think that's the big problem. That many of the decisions that the government made - I don't want to criticize them - because I can imagine the pressure she made - but many of the decisions were simply not supported by the data. The government made decisions based on some information that the public often didn't have. And then we can speculate whether or not the government had them. [[Strong noise in the hall. The overseer is asking for peace.]] So this is all I wanted to set straight. Yes, I said that if the Home Secretary wants to declare an emergency for three infected people, he probably has information that the public doesn't have. Which I think was true. Minister Hamáček had information that the public didn't have, and I think the public had a right to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček will now speak with priority rights. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a few comments. I will stick to the subject that is closer to me, less the health impacts, but the conventions that were in the business environment or the economy. I'll divide it into three parts. The first area is easing, which thanks to good results in how we manage to cope with pandemics, we could start as one of the first. We were in a situation where we decided on the so-called five-stage system of relaxing as others in Europe, others in Austria. We were partly inspired by the Austrian model, but we did a lot of things according to our model. We were actually a little more cautious at first. The crucial thing was that we were waiting for the results of Easter. The results from Easter after 14 days, if you remember, after the so-called first stage, were very good, which is why we decided to cut the original five-stage marathon to four stages. I feel good and happy that we have succeeded, of course, because the results have improved in terms of the reproductive factor, the number of infected and so on and so on. So the promise that we will be able to complete the last stage not on June 8th, but on May 25th, 2020, we have kept it. It is true that during these several stages, especially after the first round, we have made some changes, but it has not been chaotic changes, it has been changes that have been made to citizens, companies and all the actors of life, because we have reduced the deadlines, in simple terms we have accelerated the opening of trade centres in particular. We were very inspired by the way it is abroad because, as Austria and the Czech Republic started, other countries gradually joined. We monitored it all the time. I think it's fair to say that we had something a little faster, something a little slower, but when I looked at our neighbors, it was all plus minus 10 days. So, yes, maybe we opened the shopping centers 10 days later than Austria, but on the other hand, we opened the restaurants and hotels a few days faster than we did in Bavaria. They did it very regionally in Germany. The good news is that we've managed to keep up with the few stages, keep up with the exact date. And I think it can also be said that we have become an inspiration for some countries. Slovakia has more or less made its model almost identical to our model, Great Britain may have been very inspired by our five-tap, later four-tap system. Thanks to this we got among the so-called elite group early opening countries, where it is outside Austria, the Czech Republic, Denmark, if I am not mistaken, Israel is there, Singapore is there, Australia, New Zealand and so on. So we're among the countries that could have been the ones that released faster because of good results. Subsequently, of course, and in the course of this period, the promotion of entrepreneurship was coming. And I'm not saying that everything we've done, so we've done brilliantly and that there's no mistake anywhere, that maybe we could have formulated some programs a little differently from the start. I'm not saying that everything that's been going on has been perfect for a while either. Yet I dare say that most of these programs have fallen on fertile soil. Just for the sake of illustration, it's going to bilance of course everything in time, so at present we have 26 different programs plus the other four we are still finishing. We dare to say that this basically covered the whole group of business environments from businessmen to small companies, larger companies, corporations and so on, except for the exceptions that - of course, we are never able to cover absolutely everything - so we dare to say that apart from exceptions, all business segments are covered. The amount, which was very much discussed lively, which will actually fall to support the economy or business, which has been calculated on more than one trillion crowns, is, of course, a framework sum. It does not mean that these resources are taken and immediately flipped over. Firstly, because a number of these programmes are ongoing and long-term, such as guarantee schemes, they are needed for a year in advance. And for the other reason that economic support, as it is true that speed is decisive, is of course not possible to allocate everything within 14 days, within three weeks and it is necessary to work with the knowledge that economic if not crisis, so economic problems will be waiting for at least a few more months, unless it is a question of the year two. This means that we need to spread the support wisely among not only the individual players, but at the same time dose it at some reasonable time, because there is no doubt that employers will want the Antivirus programme to be extended, there is no doubt that businesses will want to increase this, that some specific groups, whether they are travel agencies or perhaps some areas in culture that still cannot breathe and for certain reasons they simply will not be able to do business, will still want support in a few weeks, if not months, so that those resources should still be prepared. Even so, the amount of that one trillion, it's going to be a little bit more, based on some methodology. The methodology has now been anchored in Europe on the basis of a direct support programme and indirect support programme, and I think that this does not have to be demoted, mocked, it is indeed a framework. And when I look at how Austria or Sweden measure it, I'm giving countries we're close to in terms of population, so it's roughly the same amount, which means we're definitely not playing the second league in this. It is necessary, true, but objectively say that Germany is giving even more, on the other hand, Germany is still somewhere else with regard to GDP and its financial strength. If we look a little more specifically, the direct/indirect support programmes are now being delivered 60 billion in order. CZK and various deferrals are not included, such as VAT and so on, with only VAT being another almost 4 billion. Crowns. So I'm not going to discuss the individual programs here, even here in the House we've said it quite many times, which was more successful, less successful. In any case, resources are being supplied and we are approaching phase two today, which is linked mainly to indirect forms of support, or not helicopter raids, not immediate resources for businessmen or employees, but we are going into schemes of longer term, such as guarantees. It is good that COVID III is on the move and that what we agreed here in the House, that is, the allocation of 150 billion. CZK from the state budget for potential loans at approximately three times the amount, in order plus minus 500 billion. The crown, so it will probably be the most important instrument. Similarly, the indirect instrument of promoting the business environment is an increased level of investment support, which means we are increasing resources to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. Not only did we lift them from 106 billion to 114 billion during the crisis. CZK, but we're still going to raise them for repairs of twos and threes, i.e. the roads of the second and third classes. And this in itself is not just support for the big investments, it is not only support for construction, but of course also for industry, logical suppliers, subcontractors, crafts and so on. And there's no doubt that it's all tied up, which means, we can't say completely simplisticly that only the support of businessmen who are quite large, even such that, for example, some larger companies are already lifting a little finger, that we think of them less, that we give a lot of tradesmen, but the other way around, tradesmen sometimes feel like we're putting it in the larger companies, which is probably normal. All I'm saying is that if even larger corporations, larger companies, keep employment there, obviously it will have an immediate impact on small companies, because the most we can do is help those small companies and businessmen not by giving them 15, 25 or 30 thousand. Social health crowns, that's, let's say, survival, to compensate for the primary costs, to even breathe in, but the most we can do is to help them by providing them with demand, which means they have someone to sell. And we can do nothing but secure that demand by making money on the market, and that money on the market can be in two forms, either by providing resources, for example, by guaranteeing that they should be lent or by not worrying about work, that they will have stable jobs, that they will have solid wages, and thus buying from businessmen. So I think this is obvious. Let us not forget that a number of delays have been secured, from delays for rent, additionally supplemented - and here it has also been after a topic from the Chamber of Deputies - compensation for the rents, so delays in bank loans, delays in various payments through the Financial Administration. Once again, the VAT alone was 3.5 billion. The crown is at this time, while last year it was some 50 miles. Crowns. So you can see that the VAT deferrals are also working. [[11.20 hours]] And let us not forget another form of indirect support, and this is the linking of domestic entities, producers with potential customers from the public sphere. There was a lot of emotion around it. The fact is that Czech health companies were not prepared for this crisis. And now it's not a complaint, it's just a fact, during the crisis a whole number of companies started so called. change, i.e. started to build investment lines, started to offer its products. But that alone is not enough to immediately involve them in those supplier-customer relationships. Within the Ministry of Industry and Trade, we cooperate with two thousand new subjects. We have created a platform called Connecting the Czech Republic. We're putting everything together. There's a special team. We are trying to support ad 1 resources to finance, for example, production lines, to finance some rapid development that they need, but literally and individually. Among other things, some of the companies that were mentioned here today by Minister Vojtěch, so we arranged them with them, their certification, i.e. We tried to give priority to their products so that they could simply go through an accelerated cycle within the Electrotechnical Testing Institute, etc. Then, of course, they can participate in public competitions. Even there, we still have to realize that it's not quite trivial. We all know that even though the company is Czech, we cannot prefer it, it must meet some not only qualitative but also price conditions. However, I am now going to the next point, within the framework of the Material Reserves Administration, we have found this system and mechanism. So I'm getting to the last point, and that's another measure of character if God forbid any other wave could figure out how we're ready for it, and again from an economic or technological point of view. The first readiness must be material in the plane, i.e. that there is sufficient protective equipment, drapes, respirators, sanitary suits, etc. That is why we have decided, approved by the government, strengthening the Administration of Material Reserves. In total, we have calculated it to the amount rounded up to 4 billion. Crowns. What is interesting about it is not only that we have calculated what we will need there, and they are really respirators, drapes in the order of units up to tens of millions of crowns, but at the same time in our opinion we have found a good mechanism for getting Czech companies into this regime as well, because even the Administration of Material Reserves must proceed in some approved agreed regime, i.e. It has to compete. However, we did that half of all the products, of the 4 billion. will go through the classic material in the sense of finished product and the other half will go only on a material basis, in simple terms we create a reservation system, logically not for Asian companies, but for Czech companies that are available, and in fact it means that the state will prefinance the material and supplies for companies, which will subsequently produce those products and be for the Administration of Material Reserves. To put it simply, the management of material reserves will retain non-finished products from domestic companies, which will subsequently supply them if necessary and the crisis. We think that this is, firstly, a quite revolutionary step, a modern way of managing the Administration of Material Reserves, and at the same time, they will be able to participate in this to a much greater extent by Czech companies. The second necessary step for preparedness is technological preparedness. I am not going to talk about a smart quarantine of 1.0, 2.0, however crucial and important it is, but I believe that we agree that this is precisely the way, the technological way that will ensure that, in the event of a problem, the whole Republic will not be isolated in the event of a crisis, but individual regions or shops, or even families, etc. so precisely these instruments we must go, these must be used with the fact that, of course, it will cost more resources. And it's not just a question of finance, it's a question of organization and, of course, it's a question of the readiness of the technology. So we have to be prepared for that, and that's what we're investing more and more resources into now. And the last thing that needs to be taken into account, and it is precisely the importance that needs to be seen in these situations, is a higher degree of digitisation of the state administration. But I do not mean the one that is being discussed and which several governments here have tried more or less successfully to get into some form. I think that the way we're going in the digitization of the government, that the way is right, that the government's agent Dzurilla has done a lot of work. Yet here we see one thing that the state was not and is not ready for it to be able to receive and distribute hundreds of thousands of cases immediately, if not millions. To put it simply, there are currently hundreds of thousands of different applications for three resorts, which is the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Finance. That means individual programs are being handled. Not only do these requests not go all the way by electronic means, they go very often by paper route, manual way, but, of course, the state wasn't prepared to be able to evaluate, confirm, and pay the resources at such a rate instantly. Of course, it is evident that programs that are simple, such as the 25-year-olds, can be implemented immediately where a certain level of control is needed, whether it is a care centre, where it is a smaller level of control, or a greater degree of control in the Antivirus program, so, of course, this can be delayed for a while. And a new system needs to be prepared for that. This is not a question of the clumsyness of these resorts, it is due to the capacity of a technological and, of course, information system that has never been built on this if we are to do this quickly. So if we want to avoid this in the future, however much we do not want to call on any crises, these are areas where it is absolutely necessary to be prepared, and then we come to the point that we can not only treat the crisis locally, not on the basis of the whole economy, but at the same time everything will work even faster than it needs to be today. Thank you for your attention and have a nice day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u23	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. There are two more applications with priority rights. First will be President Marian Jurečka and then President Kováčik. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u24	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Members of the Government, colleagues, I have a few important points on this extraordinary meeting and on the points proposed. And I have to say, when I was listening to a performance here, for example. Mr. Minister of Health, so I felt that in those first days and weeks of March I lived in about another state and with me thousands of workers in social and health services. Because he presented it here as if everyone from the beginning of the covid pandemic had enough of all protective medical aids and everything was flooded with the sun, but the reality was different. It was different at the beginning of April, when there were still issues of security of workers in social services, in field social services, when there were even rules on how to operate in these facilities. In fact, there were nonsenses where patients who were positive covid returned to the facilities without any special modes, etc. I would very much like to see point 1, which is an evaluation of the course of the first wave of a pandemic in the territory of the Czech Republic and measures to prevent the second wave if the government were to process the material. I understand, I understand, they're trying to present the maximum commitment that they and their colleagues and thousands of people have done in the field, and for the good that they've done, I want to thank them. It was not easy and I do not envy anyone who was members of the government in these weeks, months and in the management of ministries at the level of the Deputys etc. I understand that. But I'd really like to have a really open critical material here that, without the need to pierce things pink, would describe how these things took place. So it's an analysis that we're going to openly say to each other: we didn't do it here. Because if, even fairly, Mr. Home Secretary Hamáček here said that he proposed on March 2 to the government that the government should declare an emergency to start acting as of March 2nd, then it is logical to say, that was the moment when the decision was wrong, and what the Prime Minister did at that time that he postponed the central crisis management by more than two weeks was a bad decision. And we'd find a whole series of those moments. We would also find a whole series on the issue of the supply of protective medical aids. And not only I, but also the people who worked in the front line, the citizens would very much like to hear how it would possibly be in the future. Will there again be two ministries supplying the Czech Republic with protective medical aids, or have we learned our lesson? And there's gonna be one ministry that has jurisdiction and responsibility, and it's gonna solve logistics in one way or another, so we don't read ministers' guesses sometime before midnight on Twitter, who's gonna supply who tomorrow and who's gonna go where? I would also very much like us to be able to reflect feedback in this material from the very people who were on the first line, whether they were people in the rescue service, people working in health services, hospitals, social services, etc. So I very much intercede for this, and I will also ask the Prime Minister and the Government in writing to make a summary of this material, which will analyse the course and, above all, tell you where the critical points were, where we could do better, and they will come from a recommendation for a future that we do not wish for, but which can come. I would also like to hear that in the material, whether the pandemic and crisis plans within the Czech Republic and the various ministries will be updated. If we come out of this much better prepared for the second wave. [[11.30 hours]] Then, of course, there is the second point, and that is the question of a group of citizens who have not been helped. I'd split it into two categories. One category - has not been helped by those who have dealt with the lack of medical aids. I don't just want to talk about medical facilities right now, but to me, and I believe that other Members, too, have been approached by people who have been in the care of, for example, a person who has reduced immunity, a cancer patient or patients who have to go on dialysis on a regular basis, etc. And these people said they didn't have protective medical aids. And they didn't have anywhere to go to ask for them in the first few weeks. So to keep the whole health system in mind, even those patients who have been in some kind of home care for a long time, their loved ones, to be included in a plan where we know that we need to remember these people and give them protective medical supplies. And then there's the other group of people, and that's the question of the lack of any economic aid. I think there's still white spots on the map. At the end of March, KDU-ČSL warned about people in the infirmary and about increasing the infirmary to 80 percent. We drew attention to the self-employed, self-employed activities, small eseróčka, people on agreements, and to this day, yes, most of it is solved, but maybe businessmen on secondary activities are not solved until today. I still get emailed by people who worked at 0.3, 0.4 part-time and maybe even lost the job temporarily and had partial activity as a supplement to their income. They have no compensation. Or people who didn't get sick because, for some reason, they had a certain unpaid fee, execution, etc. They're in a situation where they're dealing with a problem, and now there's a state of emergency, or an exceptional situation that's further down their income, and they haven't touched on the help the state has been offering. I would very much like to see, in terms of the very economic, financial assistance to companies, people, parents, single parents, so that we can set rules that will be clear, transparent in advance, and we will know that we are not letting anyone pass through a sieve in a situation where, for example, we are restricting their ability to earn. I would also like to see clear strategies for this point 3 - Information about government purchases of medical materials and shares in private companies or other interventions under consideration. Here Minister Vojtěch argued whether we should look at how others, others and so on, but when I listened to the President of the Supreme Audit Office in 20 minutes yesterday, he made it clear that even in times of emergency, those who order medical aids or other aids must behave within the Czech Republic's laws on the management of state property, on the principles of proper care. And I would like to see the steps set here, which will lead us to know that we have set limits in the Public Procurement Act, to ensure that ministers and their ministries order proper care in an emergency with these principles. To let us know that the government has established contacts with Czech companies after this first wave. And we know how much medical protection we'll be able to secure from our own resources in the fall. I would like this to be described in black and white as well, so that we know that next time we will not be buying for CZK 10 or 12 billion from China, but that we will be able to invest a large part of this money with our domestic producers and that, for example, those manufacturers have allocated capacities and have some agreement with the state that they are able to then some volume, whether they are respirators, drapes, protective suits and others, that they are able to deliver it. On the fourth point, I must say that the Commission of inquiry in the Chamber of Deputies can either lead to a conclusion that many pages of paper will be described, but none of it is, or it will come to a conclusion that it will result in a criminal report. I made the second conclusion three weeks ago when I filed the criminal report with a lot of incentive to investigate. I am also glad that even the Prime Minister spoke of the need for these purchases to be checked, that there should be no aftertaste and that the confusion should be explained. So so many views on how I would like the government to proceed to evaluate the first wave, to learn from what happened so that we can be better prepared. And I would probably conclude by saying that, for example, when we buy documentation and know-how from colleagues in France who have decades of experience with this, I would like us to focus on the know-how in this area of the fight against covid from Taiwan. This is where the word "smart quarantine" came out several times in those previous performances. I confess - can anyone present the results of a clever quarantine in the last few weeks? Can anyone tell how specifically a smart quarantine is helping to cope with the situation in the OKD mine site today? There's talk of it, but I confess, I haven't seen any concrete results on black and white from this. And I would like us to learn from the countries that have already managed to learn from the SARS epidemic, and Taiwan is clearly the one that has been able to protect not only the health of its people, but also their economy and their standard of living and their basic, let's say, life needs. I think we can draw a lot from this. We don't have to come up with new ideas, but I don't think there's much to talk about here in Taiwan. And I would also like the foreign policy government to have the courage and fairness to say - if there is a state here that is good in this area, it would be good to say that within the World Health Organization, it should have access to these things in those forums to defend, explain, and not because there is a policy of China that Taiwan does not even want on the WHO's ground to keep quiet about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And at this point, with the right of priority, the last Mr. Pavel Kováčik signed up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madames and gentlemen, I do not want to waste time on other colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members for this debate, which is why I will be very short. Two short messages. The first is that, in doing so, we should not forget other people who were also in the front line and who are not written and spoken of. And so I just remind you that every time we remember that we have to reward, appreciate, evaluate the people of the first line of health, social services, government and so on, we also have people who at that time have the worst to provide us with the availability of basic life needs, salesmen and supermarket vendors, but also those who produced and supplied the food. Those who provided heat, for example, and hot water and steam in hospitals, it was also not quite easy when the worst wave was raging and when it might also affect people who supplied these commodities. People working in traffic, cab drivers. After all, the example of the first medialized sick, cured and treated by that expensive foreign medicine, a taxi driver, was just the typical model situation, as are the first people on the front line who work in public transport, sort of the first on the wound as well. Those too must be honored to have behaved and behaved very well in this situation, heroically, and they also need to be remembered. The other thing. You know, there's been a lot of media conjecture, gunfights, fights, impatience, and eagerness. I said yes at the time, only after the situation has passed and calmed down, the emergency will be lifted, so we can start charging, evaluating, and also preparing all the structures for any other attack or any other similar situation that may occur. The time has come. And, for example, the argument that is going on about food self-sufficiency, the self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic in food production, is also one of those situations that needs to be addressed in detail and not to be drowned in conjecture, and let's say, in some defense of the previous foreboding state, when the Czech Republic was rather reducing self-sufficiency to its own produced food by the various previous policies, actually due to the poor transformation of agriculture after the 1989 coup. Now we have a unique opportunity to make things right. Now it's the evaluation period. [[11.40 hours]] I am a friend of the authorities that they have, such as the SAO or the law enforcement authorities, if there is any suspicion, and only then can we set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry, which I consider to be a superstructure rather than the base of this whole process. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe I'm not. Forgive me if I'm wrong. That is why I think that, after the authorities have done their job, the Chamber of Deputies can possibly set up a commission. Not before, according to our court. However, the programme offered to the Chamber of Deputies for approval will also be supported by the KSČM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-000-000.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No one else has priority rights to report, so before we proceed to the vote, I will introduce you to the apologies that have come. The Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek apologizes for today's meeting from 17 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons, Mrs Margita Balaštíková apologises from 11.15 a.m. to 17 a.m. for working reasons, and Mr Václav Klaus apologizes for today's meeting from 11.30 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 The Rules of Procedure Act cannot be voted on any amendment or addition to the agenda, we will vote only on the whole draft agenda of the 50th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as submitted in writing to you. After all, I will wait a little while longer, because no one could have drawn an accurate picture of when we would proceed to the vote when we signed up for priority rights. However, I think that at this point all the Members who were in the lobby have already arrived and that we can proceed to the vote. We therefore vote on the 50th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the proposal for a programme, as presented to you in writing. I hear an application for check-out. I've checked you all out, please sign up with your voting cards again. It has happened and we can proceed to the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number two, 158 Members signed in for 156, against no one. I therefore state that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. And now we're going to proceed to the first item approved by the show, and that's
