ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-007-006.u1	6. Proposal by Members of Marek Výborný, Jan Bartošek, Pavel Bělobrádek, Marian Jurečka, Jiří Mihola and others for the issue of constitutional law amending constitutional law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended /house print 526/ - first reading The Government's position has been delivered to us as House Press 526/1, and I am now asking that the plaintiff of the motion put forward and the plaintiff's representative Mr Marek Výborný, who, of course, is excused, is next in line, Mr Bartošek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-007-006.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. In essence, our proposal for this amendment to the Constitution is designed in such a way that the provision is not addressed exclusively to the State in its own activities, but is the basis for legitimate regulation of the activities of third parties. The constitutional importance of these public goods is reflected in two fundamental dimensions. As a subjective right in the form of a right to a favourable environment, and in a number of countries it still appears, or is defined, also as a right to water, and as an objective provision defining the basic approach of the State to this area. Such provisions are not merely a political statement, but they are an order by the legislator to respect constitutional limits when making laws. At the same time, they create a hierarchy of constitutional values, which primarily regulate the interpretation of the law in its application of judicial power. The proposal has a reasonable ambition in the sense that it is directed to the implied second plane, namely objective constitutional law, while the proposal fully respects the existing design of the Constitution and its existing proportions. [[Constant noise in the hall.]] [[15.20 hours]] There is no doubt that water is an irreplaceable raw material important for the economic development of the company and its very existence. Its strategic and security value is strengthened worldwide. In extreme cases, its lack can be the cause of large migratory waves. Water loss poses a threat to all existing ecosystems, but at the same time to the economy of the state. The company's activities will have to respond to climate change and rethink existing human interference in the landscape. In recent years and early this year, it has been shown that the Czech Republic will probably face drought threats in all aspects. In the long term, this is reflected in an unevenly distributed amount of rainfall in individual months, extreme weather fluctuations occur, as we can see in the current, this year, various floods. The flow of rivers and watercourses decreases and there is insufficient moisture in the soil for optimal plant growth and development. The second and basically most valuable is fertile soil, which is an irreplaceable natural resource. It is evident that it is particularly important for agricultural production, but also for the livelihood of the population. Intensification of agriculture has its natural limits. The basic soil deficit is that its volume is constant. We just don't inflate the land in the Czech Republic, we don't buy it, we just have the land we have, and we have to treat it accordingly. The loss of available fertile land and the reduction of its quality are mainly the result of human activity. The way land and landscape use are projected into its retention potential, i.e. the ability of the soil to capture water. And that is why we see that water protection must be closely linked to soil protection, because one has a very close connection with the other. The proposal for this introduction does not constitute a reduction in the existing protection of other environmental components, such as: air, rocks, ecosystems and energy. I firmly believe that you will support this proposal, because without land and water, we cannot survive and hand over our country to our children so that they can manage it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-007-006.u3	Thank you and I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, which is again Mr František Navrkal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-007-006.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to make a brief statement as rapporteur on this proposal. Of the three proposals on the subject, this is the most economical of all. It concerns the amendment of Article 7 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, which only complements the petitioners with a short specification for the need for protection of water resources and soil by the State. The Government has given a disagreeable opinion on this proposal, which it has justified mainly by the fact that the proposed amendment to the Constitution will have no real impact without amending the laws relating to water management. The Organizing Committee has proposed the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee. And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-007-006.u5	Thank you. I am therefore interrupting this item before the debate is opened and I will now open item number
