ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-010-004.u1	4. The draft law amending Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on Business Enterprise (Livning Act), as amended, and other related laws /German press 247/8/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. We received his resolution as House Press 247/9. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Ladislav Kos among us, and I ask that the Councillor of the Capital City of Prague Hana Kordová Marvanová, who I therefore welcome among us, be the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled. I'm gonna ask the councilwoman for a word right now. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-010-004.u2	Dear Government, honourable Members, allow me only briefly to present a proposal that was made to the House more than a year ago as a legislative initiative by the capital city of Prague. The aim of our proposal was to increase the quality level of tourism, especially guide services. The law was widely discussed here, last in plenary, when it was adopted in the amended version, compared to what Prague presented in the form with which I agreed in Prague that it would be dealt with not as a tied trade guide service, but that the Ministry of Regional Development would watch over compliance with the rules under the Trade Act by issuing licenses. There were two I.D.s in your approved version. There has now been a meeting in the Senate, and I have agreed with the text with which the Senate is now returning it, that there would be only one type of card and for the issue of the card would also have to submit documents relating to the expertise, whether education or passing the relevant course. So I support this Senate proposal, but, of course, if it was not adopted, I support the proposal that was last approved here at third reading for Prague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-010-004.u3	Now I ask Senator Ladislav Kos to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-010-004.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, the proposal for this law was delivered to the Senate on 6 January, subsequently it was discussed in committees and in the Guarantee Committee on Economics, Agriculture and Transport, an amendment was more or less unanimously adopted, which was subsequently discussed by the Senate plenary, and for the amendment and the Senate's return, 60 Senators from 60 present have spoken out. So very, very strong support. If the main aim of the bill is to avoid the performance of poor quality guide services, then more or less the original proposal, which envisaged two cards, does not solve the whole issue, although the proposal adopted by the Chamber of Deputies brings many positive insights in the guidebook, whether it is a guide card or a list of guides, for a guide-stranger from the European Union is a necessity to notify activities in the Czech Republic, but this has not solved the fundamental problem and the main objective of the proposal - improving guide services. The amendments contained in the Senate resolution deepen the positive benefits of your approved law, your version, and remove the inconspicuous dual-track qualification of first-degree guides for a guide without qualification and a second-degree guide for qualifications, and there should be no difference between those levels in rights and obligations. The purpose of the Senate's unanimous decision is to establish a uniform guide card bound to professional qualifications, defined widely enough to be met by both new and existing guides. I would even mention the possible objections that the European Union might have reservations about this version of the Senate law. Regulation of tourism guides is also common in European Union countries, even though individual countries approach regulation differently. In some countries, it is left freely, in others it is considered a matter of public interest, with qualifications for the activities of a guide either in the form of tied activity, licences or professional examinations. So much for the introduction of this law. I therefore ask for his support, and I dare to hope that if the Senators of the political spectrum have supported the law, this will also happen here in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-010-004.u5	I am now asking whether the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Petr Dolínek, and the rapporteur of the Public Administration and Regional Development Committee, Mr Jakub Janda, would like to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate. No, you're not interested in expressing yourself. Not interested. It's not an obligation, I only ask, it's fine. So I'm opening up a debate that I don't have anyone registered to, so I'm gonna look around the O.R. to see if anyone's checking in. So I'm done with the debate. Now I ask whether there is interest in the final words. Mr. Senator? Councilwoman? There's no interest in final words. We shall therefore proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on business entrepreneurship, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to the House press 247/8, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to the House press 247/9." [[Trade law]] Then I'll wait. I'll have everyone come to the conference room. I'll check you out, please sign in with your voting cards. We know what we're going to vote on. Initiating vote. Who's up for the Senate version? Who's against the Senate version? Voting number 43. Registered 139 Members, for 25, against 77. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. Please set the necessary number of votes. [[15.40 hours]] I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on business, as amended, and other related laws, as amended, in the version in which it was forwarded to the Senate, according to the House's press 247/8. [[Trade law]] I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 44, 142 Members registered, for 125, against 3. I state that we have adopted the bill. I thank the senator for the presence and also Councilwoman Hana Kordová Marvanová. We'll proceed to the next point.
