ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-003-387.u1	387. Proposal for amendments to the composition of the institutions Chambers of Deputies I ask that the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-003-387.u2	Thank you for the floor. Have a good afternoon. Prelude to the fact that the electoral commission initially counted on the entire electoral block in a fortnight, but colleagues from the SPD today asked for a pre-position of this point. The House made this decision and approved it. I state for myself, in accordance with the electoral order, that the changes we will be voting on have been discussed by the electoral committee within a period of one day, 24 hours, yesterday after the assembly of the parliamentary clubs. We have a de facto single electoral point, which is always carried out by acclamation, by voting, these are changes in the composition of the institutions. I will introduce you to the fact that the deadline for proposals for amendments was set yesterday, September 15th, within 12 hours. We have received proposals which, as I have already said, the electoral committee subsequently discussed and adopted in resolution 167. In the resolution, there are three parts of the proposals of the Members' Clubs: A motion for appeal. This concerns, in all cases, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová, who is currently being organised as an unattached Member. The proposal for its appeal shall be submitted by the SPD. The proposal for the appeal of Tereza Hyťhová is from the Committee on Social Policy, from the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, from the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for Family, Equal Opportunities and National Minorities and finally from the Temporary Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the Evaluation of the Effectiveness of Government Assistance within the COVID. The second part of the proposal is the resignation as we received it from the clubs. The SPD proposes the resignation of Mr. Pavel Jelínek from the Defence Committee, and the YES movement proposes the resignation of Mr. Josef Kott from the Committee on the Environment. We have accepted nominations against appeal and resignation. To the Defence Committee Jaroslav Dvořák for the SPD, to the Committee on the Environment Irena Blažková for the ANO movement and then to the part concerning the SPD club, to the Committee on Social Policy Monika Jarošová, to the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Pavel Jelínek and to the temporary commission for the evaluation of the effectiveness of government aid COVID Lucie Šafránková. On behalf of the electoral committee, I'm saying that we've compared the appeals and resignation proposals against nominations, everything's fine. Clubs use their kvora, to which they are entitled under political agreements and the division of the House. The only institution left vacant now is a permanent committee for family, equal opportunities. That place belongs to the SPD Club. If colleagues decide in the future, they will be able to make a new nomination proposal. So many statements from yesterday's resolution number 167 of the Election Commission. Now, Mr President, I ask you to open the debate. I'll propose three votes for the electoral committee. First vote on appeals, second vote on resignations and then third vote on new nominations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-003-387.u3	Yes, thank you. I'm opening the debate. No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. In accordance with the proposal from the President of the Election Commission, we will now vote first on an appeal. There's a checkout request. I've checked you all out, please log in with your cards again. We will therefore vote first on proposals for appeals. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 71, 75 Members signed in for 72, versus 1. The motion was accepted. [[12.50 hours]] We will now vote on resignations. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Who got held up? Voting number 72, 80 Members registered, for 79. The motion was accepted. The last vote is the vote on the vote, as the proposals have been made by the President of the Election Commission. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 73, 82 Members registered, for 80, against no one. The motion was accepted. We have therefore come to terms with the motion for a change in the composition of the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm done discussing this point. On the basis of the agreement of the MPs, I will now conclude the morning meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We will continue at 14.30 hours with a fixed point 491. At the same time, I warn the members of the Organizing Committee that the Organising Committee will meet at 13:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-003-387.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue according to the approved agenda, and I am opening point 491, which is
