ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 76th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. I've just checked you all out, and I'd ask you to sign up with your cards or tell me who votes with the spare card. I called this meeting following Section 109m of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of a proposal from the Government to express the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the period of emergency. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Monday, December 7, 2020. We would now proceed to the approval of the verifiers of this meeting. I suggest we identify Mr Vít Rakušan and Mr Jiří Valenta as the verifier. I've called in colleagues from the lobby so we can vote for the verifier. I'm asking if anyone else has a proposal for verifiers. I would like to say that we are sitting in half the number of Members who are not present or excused in writing, they are deemed to be excused under the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs. Members of the government are apologizing at the moment: Tomáš Petříček - health reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Alena Schillerová - working reasons. There. And for the newcomers in the hall, I will repeat that we will vote on the persons of the verifiers. However, we are still not a quorum. [[Gong.]] Moreover, the apology of Secretary of Defense Lubomír Metnar, who apologizes 9. 12. on account of urgent work obligations, on the whole of the date of the hearing. So, we're acquitted. I repeat, we are voting on the verifiers of this meeting. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number one, registered is 75, for 72, against no one. The motion was accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, on 5 October at 0.00 this year, the Government has declared in accordance with Article 5 and 6 of Constitutional Law No. 110/1998 Coll., on the safety of the Czech Republic, for the territory of the Czech Republic due to health risks in connection with the demonstration of the occurrence of coronavirus known as SARS-CoV-2 in the Czech Republic for a maximum period of 30 days. The Chamber of Deputies subsequently held its 70th meeting on 19 November by its resolution No. At the request of the Government, 1353 renewed the duration of the emergency situation until 12 December this year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, the Government may extend the period for declaring emergency status only after the prior approval of the Chamber of Deputies. On 7 December this year, the Government requested the Chamber of Deputies to extend the emergency period in connection with the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic until 11 January 2021. According to Article 109m (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) The Chamber of Deputies shall decide on such a proposal in abridged procedure. Madame Members, on 19 November of this year, by my decision number 81, on the basis of the Government's proposal, I have declared a state of legislative emergency. In connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, the Government has requested that the following House press, which it approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, be discussed in a shortened hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. This is a government bill amending Act No. 240/2000 Coll., on crisis management and amending certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 243/2020 Coll., on the powers of the Police of the Czech Republic and the Municipal Police to prosecute violations of crisis measures and emergency measures ordered in connection with the demonstration of the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus in the territory of the Czech Republic, House press 1111, shortened negotiations. [[Crisis law]] By decision number 86, I decided to discuss this government proposal in a short hearing, and I ordered this press to the Security Committee, setting it an unbreakable deadline for the submission of the resolution by 9 December 2020 by 1 p.m. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in this context, pursuant to Paragraph 99 (2) of the EC Treaty, 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are in a state of legislative emergency before discussing the proposal for a programme to assess whether the state of legislative emergency persists. So I am opening up a debate on legislative need. I remind you, this is something other than an emergency. I ask if anyone is interested in speaking in the debate. I see no one, I end the debate and we proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency before the beginning of the meeting'. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered is 90, for 69, versus 5. The motion was accepted. I'm stating that the proposal has been approved. And now we will finally proceed to our own 76th meeting, as shown on the invitation. I'm asking if anyone's interested in the show. I see no one, so we will vote on the whole proposal for the 76th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Initiating vote. Who's up for the meeting? Who's against it? Voting number 3, registered is 93, for 74, against no one. The motion was accepted. The agenda has been approved. Thank you. [[14.10 hours]] Opening point
