ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u1	504. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations A total of 33 responses were submitted to the 62nd session of the Chamber of Deputies to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. We have 11 more responses to the written interpelations to discuss today. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpellation, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. Then another apology arrived to Minister Marie Benešová by 11 o'clock for work reasons. There. And let's go to individual interpelations. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Olga Richterová's interpellation with regard to fare reductions for disabled pensioners. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 707. The discussion of this reply was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. As you have heard from me a moment ago, the Prime Minister will come to the oral questioning, apologizing for work reasons, it is not possible to discuss this interview. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mrs Olga Richterová to the Prime Minister on the necessary legislative regulation for municipalities implementing comprehensive housing support. Interpelation is presented as House press 709. This interpelation was also interrupted by the Prime Minister's presence. It cannot be discussed any further, the condition has not been met. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík's interpellation with regard to two thousand billion of our citizens' money from lithium. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 770. The discussion of this reply was suspended until the Prime Minister was present. Attention, change. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová responded to Mr Jakub Janda's interview on the scandalous bullying of an entrepreneur by the Financial Office for the Moravian-Silesian Region. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 885. The discussion of this response was suspended until the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. The Minister is present and we can therefore continue the debate. Now, in motion, Mr Janda is reporting to whom I hereby give the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u2	Hello, thank you for your word. I'm sorry, I'm a little out of breath since I ran from the subcommittee, so hopefully I can breathe it out here. [[You're an athlete, aren't you? Fun in the hall.]] Well, an athlete, but with a mask, Madam Secretary, it's hard to run with. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, this April, there was a case of bullying by an Ostrava restaurant by the Moravian-Silesian Financial Authority. I'll only remind you briefly. Due to the difficulties caused by coronavirus, he applied for a delay in payment of VAT. In response to the Office, however, not only was the rejection of this request, but it was built on property. It was only CZK 16,000. Absurd, incredible, scandalous. I'm glad it worked out eventually. Madam Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, in response to the interpellation I had addressed to her on this case, promised a remedy. In response to my suggestions, she called the whole thing an incorrect assessment of the particular situation. She said she explained to the directors of the various financial authorities that they should do the right thing. Which, at a certain dose of optimism, can be interpreted as being reasonable. Even though the defendants in the case mentioned above received only a complaint, they were better than nothing. Finally, she stated a sentence that I must quote literally: "I believe that such cases will not be repeated again. " I have no illusions about the current government garrison, as a politician, I'm used to anything, to have a healthy doubt about everything. But after all, I wanted to give this effort hope. It lasted a little over two months. At the end of June, a report appeared in the media, or she began to witness about the events at the financial offices in the Zlín Region, especially in Valašské Meziříčí, and not just there. This is not about new cases, it is about recent years. But responsible people remain in their places and there is no way that similar practices continue. Just by chance what was going on. An incentive to issue hedging orders and to hold auctions in debtor's property. The more, the better the evaluation of the financial office. Worse still, targeted selection of goods for auction to suit related persons, preferential treatment of selected debtors. Here, too, I would like to believe that these were only unique excesses, which are the result of the misguided behavior of several individuals. That there are a lot of responsible people working in financial offices who are corrupting a few pests to use a dictionary that is at least close to the supporters of this government. But it looks a little different. The published reports and the published testimony show that the kneeling procedure could have been wider. I always resist over-pushing or scandalizing. But how do I resist the impression that this was a systematic approach, plus enforced by superiors? How else do you explain the wording from above, which, for example, was given in a report by the head of the enforcement department in Valašské Meziříčí? Although the Vsetín prosecutor ruled out abuse of authority, I am concerned about these cases, and I am undoubtedly not alone. Just because they keep repeating themselves, however much the Minister of Finance here assures us that this will not happen again. I would like to know here again, and not only me, but also those thousands of honest businessmen and entrepreneurs, what really effective measures the Ministry of Finance will implement together with the General Financial Directorate, so that such excesses do not recur. There were methodological guidance on incentives in the number of auction hedging orders, etc.? Are there such instructions to the present day? How will the control system be strengthened? And the last: What measures will be taken and against which responsible persons will be taken in newly published cases from the Zlín Region? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u3	Thank you. And I give the floor to Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Member, if I understand this correctly, you don't want the case in the Moravian-Silesian Region at this time... or you consider it closed. I'm very happy for you. Let me just get this straight. It was indeed a very wrong thing, a wrong procedure. But the way Principal Richterová, CEO of the Financial Administration, investigated it, it wasn't a systemic failure. There is a set methodology, a clear methodology as to how they should proceed. Moreover, the methodology has been greatly mitigated as a result of the pandemic. That means there are still individual approaches in the pandemic. There should never have been a lien set up there at all. Zlin County. Unfortunately, I don't have the files right now, but it's in my head. I hope I tell you everything. The case of the medialized stuff from the Zlinsky Region. It was also the subject of negotiations at the time of the public hearing in the Senate, where I was also present with Mrs. Director-General Richterová, and she explained it very closely. You correctly said that these are things that sometimes fall into 2016, that means old data. Since then, the General Financial Directorate and the Financial Administration, believe me, has come a long way, regardless of the methodology in the field of hedging orders, when the absolute methodology, which is set up there for more than two years, so completely takes into account, accepts the constant case-law of the Supreme Administrative Court, shifts in interpretation. Finally, we presented graphs, I can send them to you if you are interested in both the House and the Budget Committee, and the Senate, where it is clear that the number of hedging orders is falling. This does not mean that they will cease to be done, but they are falling, and the conclusions reached by the Supreme Administrative Court in its caselaw are actually fully accepted. The issue in the Zlín Region. The Financial Administration and the Director-General explained this last time in the Senate, but also in the Budget Committee, where we were with it before the holidays, that she had set it up right after she started, or was actually the one that pushed for the publication of the methodology, which now also for more than two years actually, she has been in office for more than two years at the Financial Administration. Today, auctions are being electronized. That means, what happened in the Zlin Region today can't happen that someone was picking something. It's being electronized today, anonymously. It's running in a completely different system. This means that the things that have been going on there are now completely excluded by the financial administration's systemic steps. Those key people left. In fact, the director of the Financial Office for the Zlín Region has retired as well. He was a decent man, I knew him personally. And it, you know, you can't see anywhere either. But he left, and that's probably a good thing, even the director of the relevant zoning center. Of course, they're all civil servants, so they either decide to leave on their own or you're leading a very long disciplinary procedure with them. As far as the staff members are concerned, the disciplinary proceedings are under way. I've been informed about this, but it's a matter of the disciplinary commission that even the CEO can't interfere with, it's appointed under the Civil Service Act and independently evaluates the procedures. This means making these things, and repeating them again, it's 2016 so they don't go on Sunday, there's a whole series of systemic steps, absolutely systemic measures, electronization, these things, and just the key players left those positions. Well, as far as the classics are concerned, if it's over now, I'm not exactly gonna tell you, it's always a long process, disciplinary control. Well, I'd like to say here, it has nothing to do with your interception, but I'd like to say that the Financial Administration certainly doesn't belong here, I say it often, and it will never be one of the popular Financial Administration bodies, but it's always been here, always there, in every country, it has to be here, because we don't want tax evasion to multiply here like mushrooms after rain. I think she's done a great deal of work, for example, in the area of control reports, where after three years, we've achieved that basically our carousel frauds in this country have disappeared. But I would like to remind you of another thing that it does a lot - for example, in this pandemic period, it also plays a very positive role. It was the Financial Administration that paid out and processed almost a million claims for a compensation bonus worth about 23 billion. Monday, he's gonna start paying off the second wave. They were simply helping, paying it off quickly, eventually even the commission led by your President, Stanjura, evaluated the compensatory bonus as, as I recall, he considered it one of the fastest and best functioning government aids here. And among other things, the Financial Administration is very active, and I have to tell you, these people are excited, they're doing it with great enthusiasm, they're involved in tracking. Today, we have about 237 tax officials involved in tracking throughout the country, helping sanitation stations. So let me remind you that another 70 is Customs, but now we're talking about Financial Administration. So I would like you to perceive a little, if possible, the positive side of the Financial Administration. I know I've turned away from what you've opened here, but I've seen the complaints, I've seen these problems here, I repeat, the Zlin Region of 2016 has done a great deal of work, we've worked it out, we've presented it in June or July on the budget committee, we were at a public hearing with it in September in the Senate, and I think that these things are set up there today completely systemically. And the Financial Administration is also doing these things that I have to remind here to see that it plays a very important role now during the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u5	Thank you. Mr Munzar is reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Madam Secretary, I will take the liberty of responding to what painting you have actually painted for us here. I would just like to point out that the excesses you were talking about yourself, and it's a good thing they're finally being dealt with, from my point of view, were caused by some inertia that was in the Financial Administration. We must not forget that it was just under the finance ministers for the YES movement, when Mr. Managing Director of the Financial Administration Janeček began to abuse those powers and began to overuse hedge orders, and there were a number of cases where the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Administration lost litigation and because they lost litigation, so you just started changing that approach. And I am very sorry that you have set the atmosphere here before the pandemic, which meant a strong but unnecessary rigor towards the business sector. And unfortunately, the cases that are happening in the Financial Administration are the result of this approach. And I would ask you, and I'm a little, I'm sorry, I'm gonna turn aside, just like you, but it's still affecting the Ministry of Financial and Financial Administration's activities and helping entrepreneurs. I wanted to ask you in connection with this about deferment of VAT. If you think it's quite right to tell businessmen in the media that you're going to postpone their VAT due for a quarter by the end of the year, but the order to do so will come out on the VAT due date. Do you really think that these entrepreneurs, thanks to how strict the procedure is set here for failing their obligations, so whether they are really waiting for the last due date to read the order from the Ministry of Finance? Or do you think it didn't help them, and shouldn't it go far before the VAT due date? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u7	Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, you've basically shown us when management should lead the performer to the point. This is a typical example of when you should have contacted the Minister in oral interpellations. We're here, we're here in a peaceful atmosphere. Just don't let it happen again, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u8	Well, I think I've sent tons of material, materials to those security orders, I'll send them again. You see the statistics, the methodology set up. Even the Chamber of Tax Advisors acknowledged that there was a major systemic shift. So please, I think we really, and especially the Financial Administration, because the Ministry of Finance can't interfere with the nature of the law, the jurisdictional law on Financial Administration, in their methodological activities, they've worked. General VAT instruction. So Mr President says you should interpel, but I will answer. The day we set up the restrictions, I put it on the government. And that day at the press conference, I said we were putting it off. And the next day, it worked. So right now, of course, I'm going to look at the data right now, I don't have it on me right now because we're completely off topic, but that day, I don't think there was any delay at all. We immediately announced it, so those businessmen knew they just didn't have to pay. If you're talking about some sort of elaborate Financial Administration order, the point is that I signed the General Sorry. And on the day of the restrictions, we gave a press conference, and I put it on the government, and I signed it right away, and we published it. So I dare say there was no delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u9	Thank you. On the subject, Mr Ferjenčík also submitted to the debate. But please, let's stick to the subject of the excesses.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u10	It's very related. I take it that, if I'm not mistaken, Mrs Schillerová is the only minister on written interviews today, so I hope that we can't even get on the subject. I believe all three of these interpelations will be in time. I wanted to ask you a question about the Financial Administration procedure in relation to tax entities. I wanted to ask you what the EET officials will do next year. And I wanted to ask exactly what the number is, it's hundreds of them for sure. So what are these people gonna do at the Financial Administration now?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u11	This interpelation is called on the scandalous bullying of an entrepreneur by the Financial Office for the Moravian-Silesian Region. I saw the donkey bridge, but it was very long.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u12	I want to answer, Mr. Chairman. May I? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u13	But the secretary wants an answer, and we have room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u14	Well, I want to. Mr. Ferjenčík, he's still paying compensation bonus. It's them. Those high school kids are doing the compensation bonus. Almost a million requests for $23 billion. Now they're in the next tranche. And besides, they're tracking. So for now, we're using them for these activities. And, of course, we'll deal with it. We're just gonna see, we're not gonna let them sit and we're definitely gonna deal with this. But the EET is basically postponed for two years. So, compensation bonus, and they're tracking for sanitation stations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u15	I ask if anyone else is interested in the debate. Mr. Janda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u16	Mr President, I just want to follow up on Mr Munzar, I think it has something to do with what he asked. Because if he hadn't asked, I would have asked. Because it's definitely about bullying. And that's exactly what I wanted to ask about the VAT deferral so these cases wouldn't happen anymore. So I think it has something to do with the subject. And I just want to thank the secretary here for the answer and keep an eye on whether or not this is going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u17	Well, I'll take advantage of the fact that you're at the counter. Are you going to propose an opinion or not? [[It won't.]] Well, thank you for your helpful approach. Then we'd have to vote, and who knows what would happen. I consider this interpelation to be discussed. Another intervention is the interpelation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who replied to Mrs Věra Kovářová on the lack of capacity of primary and kindergarten schools. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 897. The discussion has been suspended until the Prime Minister is present, so we cannot proceed. The Prime Minister thus created room for debate with the Minister of Finance on various topics. First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček responded to Mr Jan Lipavský interpellation on the new security law in Hong Kong. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1001. The discussion of this response was interrupted in the presence of the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček. In the introduction, I read his apology from the morning meeting. There's no way to talk. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová replied to Mr Leo Luzar's interpellation on the provision of background materials relating to OKD. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1011. The debate has been adjourned to the presence of the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, who is currently present, we can continue the debate. I'm asking if that's why the Interpelling Member wants to speak. I will therefore ask Mr Luzar. After that, I can see that the Minister is preparing to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u18	Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, my questions will be directed to the Minister of Finance. However, it is not so much her job injury because it concerns Prisko and OKD, which falls within the Ministry of Finance as Prisko, but rather concerns the issue of industry and the consequences that have been done. So let me give you a little bit of an introduction, and I'm sorry, but it'll be enough to understand that. During the past period of the inter-covide or covidovou took place within the framework of the activities of OKD, which is one of the largest employers of the Moravian-Silesian Region and a major industrial enterprise at that time fully owned by the state, to serious decisions. These decisions are directed towards an accelerated end to coal mining. Here I want to draw attention to the risks that, of course, are linked to this. And only a short excursion to the fact that the threat to the stability of the supply of coal can threaten, above all, the supply of heat to the civil sector, which means a critical threat to the infrastructure. It can endanger the economic, security and stable environment in the Moravian-Silesian region. We have a major problem with the storage of possible imports of coal, because the region does not have premises outside the Dětmarovice power plant, where it would be possible to store for safe reasons such a huge amount of coal that is needed. Not to mention ecology, of course. The Moravian-Silesian Region also does not have sufficient transport capacity to complete and import coal outage from OKD, for example from abroad. There is a great shortage of wagons, which is a small thing to say, but there is insufficient capacity and transport capacity to import the huge amount of coal needed. Of course, downstream industries are also at risk, which concerns mainly metallurgy and engineering in the Moravian-Silesian Region, but also the wider Republic, because products from the Moravian-Silesian Region, from the largest steelworks and ironworks, of course supply the entire Republic and exports. These are all the consequences of the possible rapid and rapid decline of OKD, which may occur if steps are not taken to restrict this extraction in a reasonable manner. I would like to briefly quote the material prepared by the Chamber of Commerce of the Moravian-Silesian Region, which relates precisely to this situation: "Most supply companies assumed a gradual reduction in mining over a period of ten years, which is about 2030, as Prime Minister Babiš said in the past. This term was gradually specified over the year 2027 only after the written observations of Prime Minister Babiš Svazu města and the municipalities of Karviná district, where the mayors are assured that the mining will be terminated first in 2024, but will probably continue beyond this date. Entrepreneurs, suppliers of services and goods to OKD, as well as the municipalities concerned, believed in this term and on that date prepared to terminate the provision of their services and goods. [[9.30 hours]] The rapid termination of the mining operation surprised all the entities concerned in a significant way. According to the information available, approximately 500 business entities are threatened by the rapid cessation of mining, many of which appear to have ceased their activities in full or to be limited in part. In any case, a significant number of employees will be fired, which will create a direct impact on unemployment in the region, especially in the districts Karviná, Ostrava, Frýdek-Místek. For example, in Karviné, there are 3,000 people employed in OKD. Released workers will immediately create a negative impact on the labour market, a long-term and much more serious impact will result in a loss of jobs of between 15 and 20 000." So much quote from analytical material processed by the Chamber of Commerce of the Moravian-Silesian Region, for which I thank her. I will now return to the basic topic of my intervention on the Minister's behalf. The whole development and the situation described in the analytical part of the Chamber of Commerce arose at the instigation of the owner, namely Prisko, which is 100% owned by the Ministry of Finance, and the management of OKD, which produced the Study of Variable Development in OKD with the influence on the world coal market and other problems associated with the region, in customer-supply relations and others. This study, a comprehensive study, has four versions that distinguish the different options of the possible procedure. This material, which was processed 21. 6. 2020 was also provided to Prisko as an owner of OKD, and the company prepared the underlying material for the government's meeting. Mrs Schillerová, Minister, replied that this material is an internal material which, of course, belongs to OKD and cannot provide it to me. My disagreement with this answer is that, yes, this material was created as an internal material of OKD, therefore fine. However, this internal material was quoted and used by the facts mentioned here, as the underlying material for the government's negotiations, which decided on an accelerated - or accelerated - end of OKD mining and subsequent steps in OKD. From this title, this material already loses its internal value and becomes a material that was decisive in the decisions of the government. And from that title, my request to the Minister to allow me, if I cannot be provided with copies of this material, to allow me to look into this material and to obtain extracts from it, because I have serious doubts and serious suspicion that Prisko has submitted serious and clear material to the Government's request under the underlying materials, which follows from these documents. So I would like to point out that this material, which OKD has prepared for Prisko, was, in my opinion, either misinterpreted at the government's meeting or, if not, ripped out of it, from the context, certain data that served as a basis for the government, and the government has therefore decided - and the consequences of this decision will be borne by the Moravian-Silesian Region and OKD - decided on the basis of incomplete and non-conceptual materials prepared on the basis of this study by OKD. Therefore, I would like this study to be provided by the Ministry of Finance as the owner of Prisko so that the underlying materials for the government's negotiations can be checked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u19	I thank you and give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u20	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, but, you know, as a woman, I can handle both. I would like to begin by specifying that the government has not yet decided on the decline or cessation of mining in OKD, although it is intensively concerned with this situation due to the critical economic situation in the company. The material you mention has developed the OKD leadership following the development and continuity of more extraordinary unforeseen events, especially - you are right about the cover, Mr Janda - especially the sharp decline in world coal prices at the end of 2019 and this year's corona crisis. Since this is an internal document of OKD, I repeat that it is not possible to provide you with it. However, I would like to point out that certain parts of the material have been taken into account in the government's material regarding the increase in Prisko's capital, a joint-stock company, within which the variants of the solution under consideration are also described. This entire government material has been provided to you in response, as you yourself said, to the written interpelation number 1396. So let me inform you about the OKD situation and summarize the development of the last few months in this company. In April this year, OKD requested its sole shareholder, Prisko, as a result of the impact of the COVID-19 crisis, to provide funds to bridge the lack of cash to refinance the costs incurred by OKD in the period 2016 to 2020, amounting to 1.2 billion. Kč. By providing funds from Prisko was to be averted by the imminent audition of OKD. On 7 July 2020, however, OKD asked Prisko to provide additional funds of CZK 673 million to bridge the lack of funds caused by a full interruption of OKD operation for six weeks, due to the escalation of the epidemiological situation in OKD. As a result, in July 2020, Prisko's shareholders demanded resources of CZK 873 million. On the basis of an assessment of the situation and the comments of the shareholder Prisko, this request was granted by the Czech Government Resolution No. 768 on the increase of Prisko's capital. The increase in Prisko's capital by 1,273 billion was thus agreed and subsequently realised. Kč. At the same time, this resolution was imposed on the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Transport in cooperation with Vice-President of the Government, i.e. me, to submit material to the Government with a proposal for a State procedure on the launch of the transfer of OKD mines and sub-spaces into the property of the State enterprise Diamo and to quantify the requirements of this transaction for the state budget. By the end of 2020, the financing of OKD is therefore ensured through the shareholder Prisko. In the following periods, however, OKD cannot provide additional funds from the state budget without further loss-making operation of the coal mines without a plan for their gradual decline being announced. So that is the current situation. The above-mentioned material must now be discussed by the Government with the State's proposal to initiate the transfer of muffled mines and OKDs to the State-owned undertaking Diamo's assets and to quantify the impact of this transaction on the state budget. Following the Government's resolution on this matter, there will be further steps to be taken to keep you informed. The material should be discussed at the nearest government meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u21	Thank you. Mr Luzar is claiming the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u22	Thank you for your answer. Madam Secretary, I'm sure you understand that he can't satisfy me, and I'm gonna try to explain the reasons and maybe explain them better. Government in material The increase in Prisko's capital, which you sent me, is based on some supporting documents - such documents were prepared by Prisko for the Government - concerning the factual situation in OKD. She was based on the material I'm interested in, that is, the analysis that the management of OKD has prepared for its owner, Prisko. I have serious doubts about the accuracy of this material or the correct conclusions that Prisko drew from this material and submitted to the Government. That's why I'd like to get the original version of the material processed by the OKD management to look at so I can compare the data there with the material given to the government for its decision. [[9.40 hours]] I consider this to be a certain control element of Parliament towards the decision of the government, so that I can find out how the government actually decided whether it had all the arguments for its decision, or whether it had been deliberately or unintentionally misled. This is my request to the Ministry of Finance as the founder of Prisko to provide this material, which is analytical, to Members so that they can look at this in this spirit. No more, no less, of course. I draw attention to the fact that this material was also created about three quarters of a year ago in a different situation, and the data mentioned there had long since lost some topicality, or, in my opinion, they are no longer in some protective possibility of damage to this company, because the company is already developing, you yourself have spoken that it will be restructured, transferred to another owner, as decided by the government. So I'm going back to the beginning. I cannot agree with your reply that you cannot provide me with this material, because I have serious doubts about the interpretation of this material in the Government's resolution and the misinterpretation of the government. Therefore, I suggest that your reply be rejected and that the House vote to reject the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u23	Thank you. Madam Secretary will no longer respond. I ask the honourable Member whether he is proposing an opinion on this interpelation. In the debate, Mr Černohorský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u24	I'm just asking you a quick question. If OKD agreed to provide it, then you could provide it at that point. I was wondering if you even asked the board of OKD whether you could provide the material to Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u25	Mr Luzar is reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u26	I'm sorry. I will try to answer my colleague because, of course, before I took advantage of this possibility of interpelation, I tried to get this material both from the company, from the management of OKD, where I had the opportunity to partially look into it. They were drawing data from him that they were telling me. But they left me that I must have the approval of the Prisko company for which this material was produced. I turned to Prisko. She told me she couldn't give me anything because it's internal material. And only then did I turn to the Ministry of Finance as the founder of Prisko, who was the translator of the material that went to the government so that I could look into this material and check the data that are given, whether they correspond to the reality to which the government then decided. That's the whole analysis of this problem that I'm seeing. Maybe it's really a storm in a glass of water. But I take the impression from the data that I have within the Chamber of Commerce, in the context of the situation I personally know, plus the possibility that I had in discussions with the OKD staff, that Prisko did not provide all the documents and materials to discuss the government, and the government did not have all the documents necessary for such a serious decision for the Moravian-Silesian Region. That's my reservation on this material. And as part of the rejection of interpelation, I would demand that this material be made available to at least the House's inspection committee, if it is under any regime that forces this material to be discussed in secret, I do not know how it is classified within the Ministry's structure, or in order for this material to be provided to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u27	Well, hopefully that's all for the debate. I'm done discussing this interpellation. Another interview is: First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interpellation on the information of self-government. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1014. The discussion of this response was interrupted in the presence of the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček, who is excused. It's impossible to continue. [[Mr Luzar approaches the President with a request for a vote to be rejected, as he requested for his intervention.]] I see. So I was just asking, and I didn't hear the answer. So I'm going back. Of course I'll call my colleagues. [[Sounds like a gong. There are 56 registered on the board.]] In the event of the appointment of the necessary quorum, we will vote on the dissenting position on the Minister's interpelation. [[Noise in the hall. It is waiting for other Members.]] Instead of increasing, it has even decreased. [[There are 55 entries on the board.]] Last time we had a problem with the vote, it was resolved by leaving the vote at the end of the block. There was just this misunderstanding that everyone was voted on at the same time. I therefore propose, once again, the same procedure, that we return to the vote at the end of the discussion of written consultations. So I'm interrupting this point until the others are discussed. [[interpelation]] Mrs Kovářová's interpellation to Vice Prime Minister Hamáček is not possible to discuss. Another intervention is the interpelation to the Prime Minister, who responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interpellation with regard to the information of self-government. That's a similar subject. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1015. This hearing was also suspended until the Prime Minister was present. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interpelation on compensation to the regions. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1016. The discussion of this response was suspended until the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, who is present. We can continue the debate. I'm going to ask the Mrs Interpelling the Member to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I have consulted you on revenue losses for the regions due to the compensatory bonus. No compensation was granted to the regions, unlike the municipalities. I noted in my interview that you also promised to provide financing for repairs to regional roads. And according to the Governor's information, you provide this amount every year. However, the regions will also have a number of other losses, such as transport services. The regions have limited the range of bus and train connections in a certain way, but it cannot be completely closed. And, of course, their costs will be increased and their fare revenues will be significantly reduced. My question was whether every year you consider the promised funding for regional communications to be a declared system solution for financing regional roads and, if not, what the system should look like. And I also ask in my interview whether it will be compensated for the regions of the blackout resulting from the reduced revenue from the collection of fare and whether you plan other contributions for the regions. I have expressed my disagreement with your answer, and I would like to comment on this. In your reply, Madam Secretary, you described the amount you gave to the regions as if it were extra. First of all, I would like to comment on these individual amounts. In your reply, the regions will receive funds as compensatory measures to repair the roads of the second and third classes, amounting to 6 billion. That amount has to be divided because 2 billion will be within the IROP, so it's kind of off, and then 4 billion, but that's something you promised them and what you give them every year. [[9.50 hours]] And it repeats the same situation every year. When discussing the budget, you promise the regions that you will give them on the roads of the second and third classes. Then it will be forgotten a little bit, in February or March negotiations will begin between the Association of Regions and Government, the captains of course polish the handles and say how much they need, you say how much you give them or don't give them, and they get the money around the holidays or after the holidays and they have to spend it by the end of the year. But this is a problem, because we all know that since November bad weather can be bad weather and it has a great impact on the quality of work, if these work is done in bad weather, regardless of the fact that the region has to exhaust them by the end of the year. You promised them money. But what you have also promised them, in the Government's programming statement, is that you will adopt the rules for financing the regional transport infrastructure, which are the roads of the second and third classes, through the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, in order to provide them with funds of CZK 4 billion per year. Even, as you write in your reply to my interpelation, you have the Government's resolution of 30 April 2018, number 276, when the Ministry of Transport, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, was ordered to submit a proposal precisely to ensure systemic financing of the roads of the second and third classes through the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. As you write in your reply, it is a flagship initiative by the Ministry of Transport, and as you note, no such proposal has yet been submitted. So I ask: is the government's resolution also a piece of paper? Regardless of the fact that you and Minister Havlíček are vice-premieres of this government, and is it not possible, when you have such a task, the Ministry of Finance is also appointed in this Government resolution, that you would encourage Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček to prepare such a proposal? Or are you going to wait again before the end of the term and then put it in some kind of amendment in some kind of law? I must say that the Liberec Region, Zlínský and Pardubický prepared a proposal that would provide systemic financing for regions on the roads of the second and third classes. We've already discussed that here. And how did that turn out? It turned out that it didn't have time to discuss it, 'cause you're the one who worked on your speech. So I'm asking why don't you take this proposal if you're not able to make another proposal and start talking about it. Well, that would be road money. Then you say that you gave CZK 5.2 billion to the regions in support of social services. As we know, when social facilities and social services were transferred to the county, the state committed itself to co-financeing this, and you send this money annually through subsidies from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. And it's not just regional facilities, but it's facilities like retirement homes for urban and private establishments. And another problem. If the government decides to raise salaries in social services, it is not only at national level, but it is also in organisations that are not state. This means that the increase is related to your decision, and it is clear that the amounts are then increased. In short, and well, the amount you are talking about is standard social welfare financing. Next, you say that you gave the regions CZK 1.8 billion in protection money. And here I'm going to quote one unnamed captain, and I think he spoke for the others, and forgive me a little bit, I'll quote literally: If you mean the Chinese - sorry - scumbags they bought, the state, then they'd better keep quiet. - And I think there's nothing to add. The next amount concerns the payment of the paramedics. Of course, we all know what kind of deployment the paramedics were in. And the amount of 1.2 billion... Yes, but you promised them, and the county definitely didn't have it in their budgets, so it's clear - it's clear you have to give it to those counties. Fifth, it says here that even what is valid for paramedics' fees applies to the remuneration of county hospital workers in bed care. And so, as I can say, when we add up these amounts, it's more like a reminiscent - when the dog and the pussy cooked the cake. In short, it is a result of government policy. And now I'm not questioning the fact that the money had to go somewhere and rightly. But you decide something on a central level and you don't know how it works in those regions. So that's how much money you give to the county and how you compensate for the blackouts. And the last thing I can't agree with is financing and supporting the loss of sales for the regions. The problem is that financing in transport services at the regional level is very difficult. There is the fact that part pays the county, part pays the municipality. Of course, the contracts concluded with the carriers are long-term. And if there is a government measure that limits and which results in a decline in passengers, it is not possible precisely because of those long-term agreements so that the regions restrict transport, regardless of the fact that the regions were called on to increase connections so that people do not accumulate in means of transport. What the region regrets is one thing - that the government decides to support only one group of carriers within the transport service, and these are private carriers, but for the regions, municipalities and carriers, because they are the three who then pay it, so it does not have the money. Not to mention that it is a public service obligation. Transport service and public public public public transport is simply an essential component for promoting labour mobility. And that's where I'm concerned that the approach is not equal to all carriers, but only for one group. However, it is not only for carriers relating to the regional public transport, but also for the regions, because it is also financed. So many of my notes on your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u29	Well, thank you, Madame, and I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam, allow me to respond to your suggestions. I have already mentioned the response to the questions contained in Interpelation No. 1357 on compensation to the regions in my written interpelation, and you refer to it, which is available to you in the House Press No. 1016. At the outset, I would like to confirm that the overall negative impact of the tax bonus, which was paid on the basis of the law, was basically not nearly as large as we calculated in those estimates. You can criticize it or not, but it was basically hard to predict exactly how many people would ask for a compensation bonus. So in the end, it was roughly something up to 7 billion. For the municipalities and 2.7, I said it yesterday, within the budget, 2.7 for the regions, and I'm already counting the amount we estimate now in the autumn. This is the impact of the compensation bonus. And the fact that it couldn't be done, I think that you've all accepted in some way here and that you're no longer criticizing the fact that if we were really going to help businessmen, self-employed people, small eserócs executives, brokers, we had to do it through the Financial Administration and take it out of shared taxes. And since the bonus on children is taken from dependent activity, so it went from dependent activity. So it's 2.7 for the county. Impact of the compensation bonus. And it's against it, and I know you're questioning it here, but the money is clearly given, it's against it is 21,6 billion that Prime Minister Andrej Babiš has agreed with the reigning head of the Association of Regions, sir, I don't know if it's already the former governor, Běhounek, and they've just agreed to compensate for it this way. That it would compensate with this money. And, you know, sometime in 2016, Andrej Babiš, as Finance Minister, agreed with the regions to help finance the II road. and III. classes, and it became a rule. On those roads, II. and III. classes when they were being transferred to the edge, so money was set aside in the RUD, I said it several times when the Liberec Region's proposal was being discussed, but it was forgotten. Because the money doesn't have bows. But I even got a model from my colleagues, if all the regions were absolutely the share of the RUD, which was then earmarked for the money for road II. and III. classes, they use - and they don't all use it. Exactly the cut. Because they don't have bows. Andrej Babiš started it, then it became a conjuction, wanted to help, and it became a rule. That's what you give us every year! But in that RUD, the county got it. They got it in there. It's described, this is where I had it when the Liberec Region's proposal was discussed, so I read it right here. I quoted from the reference report, from the explanatory note. So the controversy that is constantly going on, I would like to remind you that between 2015 and 2019, the funds were extra, beyond the RUD, from SFDI 18.82. And this support, please, needs to be seen as an emergency aid to regions on the part of the state and not as a common matter. They just got money in the RUD once when it was being transferred to them. Then the government decided last time - and we don't want to blame it, it's really extraordinary help - to help every year. We've been helping in the crisis now. At the expense of deficits for which you didn't even vote to help the regions. And now it's become some kind of rule. And all of a sudden, it's called the RUD again, so it's the RUD again, and it's forgotten again. It's just not possible. The RUD just doesn't have bows. So the money, even though it was set aside, is just a whole series of counties that don't put it in full. And once again, there are regions that do, so it needs to be said that the money was allocated there. In two stages of the reform of the public administration, once again I remind you, not only competences were transferred to the region, but also within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes, adequate total financial resources of 39.6 billion were transferred at the time, expressed at the starting level of 2005, thus defining the tax shares in the relevant tax revenues so that the regions could exercise the powers transferred separately. The above took place at the expense of the State budget share. The purpose of the reform of the public administration was not to create double-track financing, and it is clear from this that the system of financing regional roads within the RUD has already been set up in the past. So I'm just reminding you of what just got forgotten, and it's conclusive, I had it here, you remember it, I quoted it right here, I quoted the passages from the relevant legislative texts that were related to it at the time. I don't want to blame you, and I don't want to worry about putting people in social services here, paramedics, paramedics. They did. We gave it an increased deficit. We gave it because we felt that they were now the most important and most important people and heroes of today's covid pandemic. We didn't want to differ whether they work in a county hospital or in a county bathroom or in a state. Of course, there are fewer states if I could take the social services system. We gave it to everyone, and we didn't distinguish. So it would take even wise or perhaps generous of you to acknowledge that we took it all as a helpful step of pulling together, trying not to hit that government all the time. I remind you of this graph, it was prepared by my colleagues. [[He's pointing.]] It's up to 2020 because 2021 would be just speculation so far. Red trajectories are the balances of only the regions, now please, just the regions, in the accounts. Blue is debt. Shirts aren't bad at all. They now have about 51 billion in their accounts by the end of 2020. and the debt is essentially also very low. So they're not in a crisis like this. That's why - I didn't vote - but I didn't support the Senate's vomit, because now we really need the money for the people and for the companies. And we already have a limited allocation to the government's budget reserve. I don't know what else can happen in a few weeks. I can only manage what's on the government's budget reserve. It's not a big amount. This is not about the state budget deficit being about 300 billion now. That's the income-expense relationship. This is about how much is on the government's budget reserve. We can't spend any more. And at this point, the three billion that it would cost could really be missing people or companies. I told you that on Monday we approved an extraordinary allocation of funds for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to the infirmary, to sick leave, those are all things that could not be completely predicted. That's where the items grow, it was 8 billion. So it's really about the priorities now. And the priorities are here. So it's 21.6 billion, you can question it all you want. The protective equipment you're quoting here is a captain, since you've already quoted him, you should have named him. If you were to name him, it would be fair. I'd like to present it right away, if there's a government tomorrow or Monday, I'd present it to Vice Prime Minister Hamáček right away. I'd ask him to investigate on the Central Crisis Staff, if necessary, to comment. So I think that's the kind of lady that said, the unnamed captain named. Name him, tell him what his problem is. Those protective equipment cost $1.8 billion, and we're gonna deal with it. I'm ready. But that it cost us 1.8 billion, that we discussed it, that I signed the budget measure, there's just no doubt about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u31	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice Prime Minister. Thank you for your performance. Mrs Kovářová is still reporting in the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u32	Madam Secretary, something reminded me of your name. You forgot to say "don't be polite." So I'm not gonna name it, and I'm gonna be polite. We'll take it from the beginning. Of course, thank you for your answer. You started with a compensatory bonus, and once again you encouraged us to question how it was settled. It's just clear that no one's questioning that anymore. It was more about how it compensates the regions. It's overcompensated for the community. It is a pity that the negotiation of the law, where we could respond to the compensation bonus that was set, and the draft law stated the amounts of outages for municipalities and for regions only for one month, even before the government announced harsh measures, we wanted to return it to second reading and we had prepared an amendment which gave these compensations to municipalities and regions with a little delay, but according to the actual drawing of the compensatory bonus. Perhaps it would be worth considering, if the emergency and the tough measures lasted next year, compensate it in this way. As far as roads and financing are concerned, the roads have been transferred to the edge, but they have been transferred with a huge internal debt, and it was clear that these regions cannot finance it simply and well from the budget allocation. And the way you said that in the tax budget, the money for the roads seemed to be hidden, that's not true. Unfortunately, for example, for municipalities - RUD has certain criteria that clearly state how many municipalities they can get and according to what education, non-investment costs and so on. And our proposal for a budgetary determination of taxes with a change for the regions is meant to actually ensure and give criteria so that it is clear how many roads the region has, how many must be corrected. In short, it would be worth considering whether this could not be adjusted in some way after 20 years, as happened with the municipalities, when new criteria were introduced. Then you talked about financing regional communications, that the state gives them money every year, that it's kind of extra. And so I'm asking why you have in the government's statement that you will make a system solution through the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure to ensure annual funding of 4 billion. Crowns. This means that the government statement is dated June 2018, so there was probably a reflection that this would be ensured annually, regularly and systematically. So I'm asking, I didn't get an answer there, as to the government resolution, when the Ministry of Transport, together with the Ministry of Finance, was tasked with preparing such a proposal. As far as the paramedics and paramedics are concerned, there's no question. No one questioned their rewards. I was only questioning how you answered and structured how much money you gave for the regions. That was my question, not that paramedics and paramedics were rewarded. You called on us to acknowledge this and not to hit the government, but I have to say, in this case, I don't hit the government, I hit your answer. And then we have a common evergreen, and that's how many regions have money in their accounts. Yes, and I repeat again why they have money in their accounts and, of course, municipalities. Because municipalities and regions have their strategic plans, and according to those strategic plans they call themselves and plan ahead not for four years, but for fifteen years what investments they will make. And since it is often high investment in civic amenities, i.e. infrastructure, such as water management, it is necessary that they have the money prepared and, of course, the investment is so high that subsidies must also be drawn, because otherwise these investments could not be realized in short and well. And the county is saving up for the co-financing. They're saving and farming well, they're in debt, but it's nothing dramatic. And that's the difference between state, county and municipalities. Yes, he thinks of the future, saves as opposed to the government. So I think it's a completely unfair argument that they have money. And you say we need money for people and for companies. And is it wrong that the regions have money in their accounts and that they are going to invest if they can? Because who's gonna do the job? That's what the companies and the people in them are gonna do. So if they have a region and they have a good business and they can invest, that's what it's gonna be for those people and those companies. So I would like to ask you to comment on Government Resolution No. 276 on the task of developing a 4 billion regional road financing system. through the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. And then I would also ask for an answer as to why you are resisting the regions from compensating for losses in public transport as you did in the form of a seat cushion for private carriers. Unlike private carriers here, they finance public transport of regions, municipalities and cities. So I'd like an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Kovářová. I ask if the Vice-President of the Government is still interested in completing his reply. That's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u34	Thank you for the floor. I am very glad that the regions and municipalities like the balances on their accounts, because they have been able to do so thanks to the excellent tax collection in recent years, when a third in the budget tax determination is going into the budgets of municipalities and regions, they could essentially manage it. That's very good. Sometime around 30. 6. as far as funding is concerned, they were in excess of half, I mean now quite ammunition than in the previous year, but still in surplus. It was over 20 billion. and that's very good. Do you know why that is, Madame? That's the pillow that's being made for the bad times that have come. And that's the pillow he needs to use now. [[10.20 hours]] And the state is in a different position, I explained it yesterday, I don't know if you were here in your closing statement. I said that the state budget has, among other things, a so-called redistribution role, it pulls most of it, over 90 percent, social spending, and that's why it's increasing its mandatorial spending. I was calling on the opposition here, and I'm sure we're still going to lead it to show - it was the ODS Members - it wasn't exactly you - to be fair - I was calling to show which of these mandatory expenses we should reduce, whether pensions, and to finally be specific, to come in front of this microphone and still not throwing the percentages and saying - so that we would reduce. That, and I'm gonna challenge you again. And I'm gonna challenge and I'm gonna want the opposition to be specific when it just hits, like, mandatorial expenses. And now I'm going to come back to you so that I don't run away from this, and I'm sure we'll be leading this rhetoric. That's the pillow that was created with a great tax collection, and now it's supposed to be drawn. That's how it's gonna be for investment. Otherwise, quite economically, the money on those accounts is actually quite a lot, and if a simple economic calculation were taken so that at low interest rates, now there are very extremely low interest rates, so basically... and relatively higher inflation than it was in previous years is not dramatic, but higher, and a sharp rise in the prices of construction works and materials, the investigation for these investments is getting expensive. So that's what I do when I talk to the mayor, I go around the Republic, so I say, when the mayor tells me, I've been in different communities, and I ask, I always ask how much you have in your accounts, how much income you have, how much debt you have. I've often heard that there's zero debt. That's not quite right either, just waiting for you to save up at these low interest rates. Otherwise, I've got investment activity in the county. Expenditure without subsidies, with subsidies, investments in total, this is from 2013 to 2020. So for the regions, they're from 0.4 % to 1 percent, inflation 3.3. I've only got numbers from my colleagues. So it's a good thing they have a financial pillow, but it needs to be pumped now. It's just the idea that these incomes are going to grow for a while now before we get out of this, just like they were growing in the boom years, they're just odd. And I explained it in the Senate 14 days ago, three weeks ago, there was some discussion with a senator that the state couldn't commit to compensating for income losses at the time of the recession. Based on what? According to the boom? So we're going to have a billion-dollar deficit? So you're gonna criticize the deficit, you're not gonna raise your hand for it, but you're gonna want to compensate everything. At a time when you have surplus accounts and a low level of debt. So, please, we need to see these things a little bit in the economic categories. Well, the government resolution, you asked for a system solution. It's quite difficult to find him. I admit that now the period of the pandemic has postponed this task, because we are dealing with a whole series of things. We only wrote almost on finance, and now it's about 40 percent, because otherwise the conditions have changed, up to 40 percent of the covid laws, so we've dealt with a number of things that were beyond the government's programming statement, but basically we haven't shortened the commitment. We put second and third-class roads on those roads every year. We've given at least what's in the government's programming statement, if not now for those two years and more. And yet you asked... Public transport, the chair? [[A voice from the diaper.]] If we can compensate. At this point, there's no such plan, I'm not aware of it. And I'm just pointing out that we basically have a government budget reserve that has some limited drawing options. And I don't even want to comment on the rewards anymore, and I basically said that you didn't question the compensation bonus, which I said when I reacted a while ago, so we're not in any dispute here at all. I'm glad you just understood that it was the only right way to do it, and there was no other way to do it. We've compensated the community for the amount of 13.4 billion, which is actually something around more than twice what they've lost with the compensatory bonus, and to the regions, I say, we've compensated it in this other way. And I didn't call for any dehonestation of some governor, please, that was a little incorrect of you. I just wanted to, if there's a problem, that I'm just ready to open it up to the government and deal with Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček or other colleagues, but nothing more, nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u35	Thank you to Vice Prime Minister and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Mrs Kovářová is still reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u36	Thank you for your answer. I was intrigued, Madam Secretary, that the regions have surpluses or have money in their accounts thanks to a great tax collection, so they could save up. That's nice of you to say. And that they made a pillow for a bad time. I think a number of economists have also told the government to do so in good times, including you. I'm glad you're at least saying that and saying that you need to save for bad times. And yesterday you justified it here, and you mentioned the money in the National Property Fund accounts, or as I would call it, when you said it was necessary, it was necessary not to leave the 18 billion there, basically a year, because it was originally determined, this money was meant for the case, Madam Secretary, in case the pension account or the system was negative, and the money could be transferred there. And you said it was useless, and that's because the pension account was in surplus, and it's better to basically put the money in the state budget and spend it. In this context, I'm just saying, that's just the pillow for worse times. And if you had that pillow at least here in the form of about 18 billion a year, you could use it beautifully today, and the deficit might not be that high. As for the fact that the counties have the money in their accounts that the investigation will not pay off, they can borrow. I think that's also true... that you say that about municipalities, but we still have some rules that restrict regions, maybe municipalities, so that they can't borrow so much, because otherwise they could break the rules of budgetary responsibility. You also mentioned that the Government's resolution, you didn't have time for this because the coronavirus came. So let me just remind you that this resolution is dated 30 April 2018. And you can't replace it by saying, well, we gave them every year, so we actually did the same thing, the programming statement and the resolution. Well, it's a little different. It was intended in such a way that you would prepare the rules as you have in the Government's programming declaration that you would adopt the rules for financing the regional transport infrastructure in order to secure CZK 4 billion each year. So what you're doing is rules? They're not rules. And I'm asking if you're still going to try to put something like that together like we did, here are the suggestions. I have here proposals of the Liberec, Zlín and Pardubice Region, how it would be possible to ensure the financing of regional roads of the second and third classes, every year, on a regular basis, without having to polish the doorknobs so that they can plan the constructions well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Who's next for the debate? If no one's reporting, I'm done with the debate. And since there was no motion to reject the answer, if I followed it correctly, we have nothing to vote on. We do not have the Kvorum to vote on this one interrupted point, so we can end the point of written intercession, because Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who would respond to Mrs Kovářová's interpelation, is not here and will come to oral interpellation at 14:30. The 1017 press is determined to interrupt this matter in the presence of the Prime Minister, so it is not for the vote, so this item is already voted on. In doing so, we have exhausted the replies to the written interpelations of the Members who have been included in this meeting, and I can terminate item 504. If I am correctly informed, we will not continue to do so at 11 o'clock after the agreement of the MPs, but right after the written interpelations, and I will do so. We have a agenda for the meeting, which was approved for this morning's meeting, where, after the completion of the written interpelations until the midday break, points are firmly placed, with the fact that I am now opening the debate on the agenda for the meeting and the first one to announce the agenda, is Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to propose as the first point of the negotiations, i.e. at 10.30 pm, the House Press 978 - an amendment to the Act on the salary of representatives of the state power presented by the Pirates, STAN and KDU-ČSL, so that the second reading can take place so that we can approve it by the end of the year. Thank you for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-001-504.u39	Okay, thank you. So the point is that we are faced with points 42, 513, 514 and 515, and colleague Mikuláš Ferjenčík suggests that a point which was not discussed yesterday due to the expiry of the negotiation period should be placed before these points, which are the salaries of constitutional officials if I shorten it. We'll decide that as soon as we reach the necessary kvora. I'll go on and wait for my colleagues to come back from the lobby. The number of entries hasn't stabilized yet, even though we have the quorum. [[After a while.]] We will vote on the proposal by Mr Ferjenčík to include the press before paragraphs 42, 513, 514 and 515 - I will wait. [[Please note that there is not enough Members present in the hall.]] - 978. We'll wait a little longer. We have 67 Members present in the Chamber, so we can change the agenda of the meeting, i.e. the pre-pressing of the press 978, decide in the vote number 282, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 282 out of 74 for 61 Members, against 1. The motion was accepted. I'll ask for the relevant press. It's point number 517. I beg the peace of the House! It's about
