ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u1	16. Government bill amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended /German press 503/ - second reading This point has been interrupted by 1. 12. in the general debate. On 3. 12. then the point was not open for the absence of the appellant. As I have already said, we have interrupted the point in the general debate. I recall that we ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee, and the resolution of this committee was presented as House Presses 503/1 and 2. The seats at the rapporteur's table have already been taken up by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, a committee, as I have already said, Mr Lukáš Bartoň. We will now continue the interrupted general debate, where Mr Mihola's speech was interrupted. And he reported to me with priority rights, then the Minister, if I've registered it well. I didn't, okay. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u2	Hello, Mr President, Mr Minister, or Ministers, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have actually summed up all or at least most of the important arguments in the previous, interrupted performance -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u3	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask my colleagues in the hall to transfer their meetings outside the Chamber if they don't want to discuss the law on teaching staff. And if they want to discuss the law on teaching workers, they do it through a microphone. Well, thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u4	And even though it's been a day again, and maybe the House's staff has changed a little bit within these shifts of ours, I'm not going to repeat them. I refer to a record that is literal. I would just like to justify the amendments that I have put into the system briefly. And I would like to conclude by saying, as such, that the interruption has already come to an end, that, as I am critical of this proposal here, in my opinion, unnecessary and unsolvable, I am convinced that the present Minister Plaga has a solution in his hands regarding the lack of teachers. And it's well prepared in the state budget. And even though he may not be listening to me now, I am repeatedly expressing my full support for him regarding the state budget and therefore concerning raising the salaries of teachers, not only of primary and secondary schools, but also of universities. So I believe that this really is a real solution. I am sure that if one of the government's programming declarations, namely the increase in teacher salaries, is fulfilled, then indeed many who have studied will return to school and those who are currently studying it will enter schools in a larger number. [[15.40 hours]] Now, on to the amendments. The first amendment, which is under number 5200 in the system, concerns a highly discussed theme supplement for class teachers, or a surcharge for classrooms, if you wish. At this time, the legal anchoring of the class teacher's activities is missing in Czech legislation. I took a role model with my brothers in neighboring Slovakia, and I believe it's a good model, so I'm asking for your support. Furthermore, the amendment, which is in the system under number 5202, concerns the proposal for this amendment, its core. There I stress that we were part of the coalition in the previous parliamentary term, and we were part of the KDU-ČSL coalition then, together with YES and ČSSD pushed the standard, which is in line with European trends, which requires that the teacher be qualified. So it seems to me a really unjustified step backwards, to do the exact opposite now, even when the coalition of two thirds is the same and when coalition partners seem not even in agreement. That is the second amendment. The third is in the system under number 7098 and concerns the school social educator. Briefly, I'll state my reasons. At present, social educators in schools are funding non-systemically, exclusively from European funds. The aim of the amendment is to prepare the conditions for the future to be funded by a school social educator systemically from the state budget. This profession is very beneficial, especially in so called. excluded localities where there are a number of social problems. Other school workers do not have the capacity to solve problems other than teaching. The school social teacher is a support profession whose contribution was verified within the framework of the IPVV, i.e. within the framework of the so-called. templates. You will find another amendment in the system under number 7099 and concerns a special educator, once again I will allow myself to justify the proposal briefly. At present, special educators in schools are once again financed unsystemically. The aim of the amendment is to prepare conditions for the future to be financed by a special school teacher systemically from the state budget, and again here I can add that this profession is very beneficial, especially in connection with inclusive education, or, if you wish, with the joint education of children and pupils with special educational needs. That is another amendment. Finally, the amendment, which is in the system under number 7100 and concerns a school psychologist. Again, a brief justification for the proposal. These psychologists are also unsystemically funded in schools, exclusively from European funds, and once again the aim of this amendment is to prepare the conditions for future school psychologists to be financed systematically from the state budget. Again, I could add that this profession is very beneficial, especially in connection with the increase in school failure and the personal problems of children and pupils. Again, other school workers do not have the capacity to pursue this vocational care for children and pupils in addition to teaching. Again, this support profession has already been verified. I beg your support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u5	Thank you. And next, Mr Staněk Antonín is entered into the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is natural, of course, that not every draft of the law creates the need for Members to be present in the Chamber and to listen to the individual speeches of the various Members and Members speaking to you in order to convince you, through arguments, of their possible proposal, or of the proposal that you present here as an intermediary to the citizens of the Czech Republic, our voters. I understand that when the Chamber of Deputies decides whether or not the emergency situation will be prolonged, the benches are full. I understand that when the Chamber of Deputies talks about the state budget, the benches will be full. But when else should the benches of the Chamber of Deputies be full of them than when we are talking about our Czech education? About the education that future generations are preparing for the performance of their professions, for the pursuit of their profession? When else are they supposed to be full of benches than at the moment when we talk about such an important and important segment of our lives, which education is undoubtedly? I understand that the speeches of our Members are not interesting. I perceive this in a close conversation between the Minister of Education and the translator of this law, because I think the Minister of Education does not want to hear what will sound like here. [[at the rapporteur's table]] But I understand, of course, it's like school. I can remind you, I can ask for a student's book, but then it will all depend on the parents if they just sign the note saying that the teacher is stupid, and they won't deal with it, or they'll tell the pupil that it would be appropriate for him to pay attention at school and pay respect to his educator. However, if the Minister needs to continue his conversation, I will respect that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it was not so long ago that our mailboxes were flooded with dozens, maybe hundreds of e-mails. The first ones in the first big wave fought for the rights of the chickens, fought to end the cage breeding of the chickens. Among the tens, maybe hundreds of e-mails, some reasonable e-mails may have been lost, which we would like to read, but they did. Later it was tens and hundreds of e-mails that always returned reciprocally in a situation where we decided to extend the emergency situation. It's e-mails that talk about what we should and shouldn't do with an amendment to the law or with a law on vaccination against covid. It's e-mails that fought animal training in circuses. But the e-mails that would talk about what is good and what is not good in the field of Czech education did not come much. Perhaps teachers, teachers, directors and directors, academic faculty staff are not connected to dozens, maybe hundreds of co-workers who automatically send us emails to Members. It's undignified for them, it's unacceptable for them. [[15.50 hours]] However, some emails came into our mailboxes after all. They came, I would say, from very important and respected workplaces and from experts in the education of future generations. Some emails are addressed to us by Members in a copy and are sent in the original to the Committee on Science, Education and Education. However, we all know that this committee, of course, has a public hearing, a hearing. But we also know that, given the current pandemic situation, we cannot always take part in these negotiations. Of course, the outputs are public, but not everyone searches the website and gets acquainted with the committee's position. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let me read some of the opinions of the professional centres here and draw attention to the fact that this is not some pouting business, some stomping on our Members here, but that it is a truly rational, factual and critical commentary on the proposed law, on the proposed amendment to the school law. Let me introduce you to the position I received from Mr. docent Mgr Daniel Jandačka, D, Dean of the University of Ostrava, Faculty of Education: "Dear ladies, gentlemen, I would like to address you as Dean of the University of Ostrava Pedagogical Faculty on the amendment of the Education Worker Act. I consider the amendment allowing teaching practice without pedagogical qualifications not only in secondary vocational schools, but also at first and second levels of primary schools to be unacceptable. It is clear from the proposal that the submitted amendment is contrary to the standards of the teacher's profession regulator, i.e. the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports approving study plans for teacher's study programmes. I do not agree with the basic line of arguments defending the proposal for pedagogical activity in schools without pedagogical qualifications. The lack of teachers cannot in any way be an argument justifying the intention of reducing their qualification level. Taking into account research demonstrating the link between the results of teacher education and qualifications, this amendment runs counter to these current findings. In a similarly disharmonic relationship, there is universal support for education. I believe that when making decisions, you will take into account that our children in primary and secondary schools deserve the highest standards and state-of-the-art approaches, not compromises that are justified by the mistakes of our past political representations. With respect to your work signed by Dean of Ostrava University, Faculty of Education, Mr. docent Mgr Daniel Jandačka, D" I could, of course, at this point in time discuss every argument put forward here. I think that for the lay public, who will eventually watch in some late night hours, in moments that will significantly replace those moments where they would sit in a restaurant for example and drink some good punch, mocha or something else - even wine, I am reminded by my colleague here from the wine region - so I would like only one warning and one such insertion. A fundamental distinction must be made between qualifications, which is basically a university education, so that one can be a teacher with an appropriation. This difference is not always sufficiently perceived. Aprobation is actually a special preparation of a future teacher to teach a specific teaching course that is included in the curriculum of the relevant school. The preparation of such acquitted teacher takes place both in the Bachelor's degree programme, which is basically aimed at obtaining a future teacher's professional readiness to acquire professional knowledge, current insight into the field, whose professional content then forms the content of the course. This means that the teacher of Czech language and literature is familiar with the current state of knowledge in most fields related to this subject. The math teacher is also familiar with a number of current knowledge of the field. It's the same as a science teacher, history teacher, social sciences, etc. The second stage of the preparation of the future teacher is then situated in the Master's follow-up study of teaching. Here, a future student, a graduate and a teacher, acquires the skills that allow him to transfer the professional content to educative content. Thus, into such content, in a form that is understandable to pupils and which, according to long-term experience, can lead to the ultimate goal, that is to the fact that the pupil takes over this knowledge, knowledge and skills and is able to use and apply them in practice, in everyday life. This is the crucial and crucial difference between an expert and an educated teacher. In the fact that an aprobated teacher has skills in the field of field and subject didactics, which allows him to do just that targeted pedagogical work on his pupils. Without this skill, we could say that everyone can actually teach, but it is not. I am very sorry, but there is a press conference scheduled at 16 o'clock that we want to inform the public about why we are actually speaking here as we speak. Not to block this law, to destruct the efforts of the Ministry of Education in some way, but because we are not indifferent to who will raise our future children. So I'll continue my performance later. Once again, I apologize and wish you all the best in this meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u7	Thank you. I would like to point out that the benches of Members are empty mainly because of anti-epidemiological measures in this House and next to the Minister sits not the petitioner but the rapporteur. I will now move the Member to the end and please Mrs Melková, Mrs Valachová will prepare herself in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u8	Hello, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, dear Vice-President, I have a purely pragmatic input, as I would like to present my amendment on this government bill, the content of which is to change the original proposed effectiveness of the law, which, given the length of the legislative process, is no longer possible. [[16.00 hours]] The effectiveness of the provision introducing the support of an early teacher, an adaptation period of the teacher, is proposed on 1 September 2021 with regard to the beginning of the school year. On other points, efficiency is proposed to be postponed by a year, which is as of 1 July 2021. The text in force will therefore be: This Act shall take effect on 1 July 2021, with the exception of the provisions of point 65 of Article 1, which shall take effect on 1 September 2021. I will also sign up for this amendment in a detailed debate. That's all I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u9	Thank you. Now, Mrs Valachová. Then we will see how the debate develops.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u10	Mr President, colleagues, fellow Members, honourable Government, Mr Minister of Education, I would like to speak at second reading to the amendment to the Education Worker Act under discussion. The amendment of the law on pedagogical workers and the government programme is, say, announced for two reasons in particular. The first reason is to improve the professional support of our teachers and teachers, and the second reason is to reduce the administrative burden associated with professional support. I therefore believe that none of the Coalition Members and Members are opposed. The problem is that the law, when it was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, was far from fulfilling these two objectives, and so as time went on, because this law lies in the House for quite a long time, so there were a number of new facts, such as the submission of a long-term intention for the development of the education system, which was thus the foreshadowing of the new Education Policy Strategy 2030+, and then the Government also approved the Education Policy 2030+ Strategy. I believe that added to the fact that the current education system, students, pupils, pupils, teachers, teachers, but to some extent also parents, must deal with the impact of COVID-19 on education and quality of education, so it is just another thing that we should take into account in any change in the professional support of our teachers and teachers. For logical reasons, this law does not take into account, reflect, regulate any of the things I said and what happened here in the last year and year and a half. I think that's a mistake too. At the beginning of the presentation of this law to the Chamber of Deputies, we were asked, both coalition and opposition, and along with us, the professional public, not only the faculty of education, but also the professional organisations, the faculty of teachers, the association of directors, non-profit organizations, that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports should complete as quickly as possible the final wording of the implementing decree for this amendment of the Education Worker Act. This means how specifically it will continue to look not only at qualification, I will get to that, but especially at teacher and teacher standards. The Minister of Education will surely supplement me during the debate, but I believe that this decree or agreement on this decree is not final. If so, it will only be a favorable message, but I'm based on the latest information we had through the expert round tables that my previous speaker, Jiří Mihola, organized. I note that school laws are important because they concern, of course, the education of millions and half of children, pupils and students, but it is also important to monitor not only, say, the changes to the sections here in the House and the Senate, but also what we are giving the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports a kind of check, let's say, in this case, a blank check that will be regulated by implementing regulations, other steps of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, because in a number of cases, and this would not be the first time, of course, the ignorance of these details can cause us, Members and Members, to deal subsequently with overwhelming criticism not only by the professional but also by the general public and parents, after all students. It is then not pleasant to hear from the media that it was the Chamber of Deputies or the Senate who made that decision. And often this argument likes to be used. Members and MEPs no doubt make decisions, and they are the ones who vote for new laws or changes, but they also have the right to ask the petitioner, whether they are Members or Ministers of the Government, for all information. Therefore, I think that the implementing regulation in this case should be sent to Members and Members. For the next few weeks, I will be sure to ask the Minister of Education if this implementing regulation could be submitted to the school committee during further discussion of this amendment. Thank you in advance. The other thing I want to mention is that there is no peculiarity if anyone wonders that the thesis, or even the entire implementing regulation, wants to see the Chamber of Deputies or individual committees of expertise. I note that in the previous years of previous ministers or ministers it was a common practice, which the Chamber of Deputies forced upon itself just after having had bad experience with some predecessors in terms of what is promised to it and what is subsequently being done, when the House no longer has any influence on it. With regard to the change as presented to us, I said that the change towards the professional support of teachers is us, after all, it is the Chamber of Deputies who have been urging any government since 2017, to make the professional support associated with the assessment of teachers and teachers as high as possible, because it is the quality of education, and therefore the future, including that economic and economic, of our country. There is no need for the House to have any information or to instruct it. What is the problem is, however, if the law faces one side that it wants to do this and does the opposite. That is what the law on teaching workers is about, as unfortunately it has been presented. As far as the qualifications of teachers and teachers are concerned, everyone will probably want to, especially as far as his child is concerned, but I believe that for all children, this child will meet the finest, the finest, the most pleasant, the most educated teacher or teacher, that is probably what we all wish not only as legislators but also as parents or grandparents. As in all professions and occupations, of course, this is not always true. But if we are adopting laws, we should accept them so that they are the kind of teachers and teachers I am talking about, giving the prerequisites and the possibility of becoming such great teachers and teachers. When it comes to the qualifications of teachers, my previous speakers mentioned the so-called Chládkův novel. I would allow myself to take a little credit from Minister Chládek that it was he who invented that it would be good for qualified people to teach children, students and students. You can understand that it wasn't his innovative idea, but it is something that the whole of Europe and the whole world share. Therefore, I consider it important to read the opinion of profesor Stanislav Štech from Charles University, who until recently was a member of the UNESCO Steering Committee and also a representative of the Czech Republic in the OECD Education Policy Committee - I note until recently because at least one of these positions has surrendered - who warned us, as a Member and a Member, about these changes that we are to discuss last year. On the one hand, he objects - and I note, it is not only him and I think that this is the answer to the discussion on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies - on the one hand, it is not just him, it is also the school unions, the Pedagogical Chamber, the associations, the teachers' associations, non-profit organizations, that the emergence of the amendment is unfortunately not transparent again. There is no proper discussion in the school tripartite and no commentary procedure, as we were previously used to, with all the actors and with the settlement of all the comments in question. [[16.10 hours]] One. It's actually the biggest professional change since 1946. But of course, if you don't know the history of education and education, you don't have to worry about it. We just have to be ashamed to remember the generations before, the last professors Kotásek and Helus. They managed to defend the teacher's profession from the ideas of qualifying it. - I'm making a statement before 1989. - Today there is clearly a strong tendency among Members to mess with fire, according to logic: somewhere it is terrible with qualifications anyway, so let's make it a system and we are done with our worries. Two. The Sládkovské exceptions, i.e. the amendment makes the system, extends the possibility of teaching unqualified to operate not only at secondary school but also at second grade of primary school, and then indirectly at first grade of primary school and eliminates andprobation binding qualifications. - Here's just a note for those whose school agenda isn't daily bread. The difference between qualifications, let's say, whether or not I have graduated from the faculty of education, and the subjectivity. Aprobation means specialization and um of such a teacher or teacher towards mathematics, physics, Czech, simply to selected aprobation. The headmaster will be the only person who decides that the engineer will teach chemistry or other subjects at the school if he likes it and the director can't get anyone else. It's certainly an example of extreme, but the law would make it possible. And, as we know, what is an almost unthinkable exception at first, can eventually become a common reality. Three. The obligation within three years to start teaching professional qualifications over the past 15 years has not been used by a large number of unqualified teachers, nor by a five-year and once extended period for starting such studies. Why would they do that now with increased benevolence and the possibility of reaching out to the school principal? And has anyone considered the psychological RIA, the impact analysis? What about those who have already completed the entire teaching course, often during their teaching profession and during their employment for their own resources? What kind of message is that for teachers? And as we know, all trends affecting the negative attractiveness of teaching will continue linearly in demographic decline, increased unemployment, and promised 45,000 or more crowns of salary in the middle of the next decade. And will this amendment depreciating the teaching profession in the future ever be interested in being abolished? Or did we take a constructive solution back to the military servicemen? Four. All key documents from the government's statement to the 2030+ Strategy are driven by concern for teachers and their quality, especially at a time when didactic and psychological skills of teachers are becoming crucial due to the changing pupil population. The proposed amendment makes these standards merely a non-binding figure. Five. This most radical intervention in the concept of teaching skills over the past 50 years is contrary to the findings and recommendations of international organisations. I have been working as a teacher for almost 30 years - that is, Professor Štech - and in OECD or UNESCO I represent the Czech Republic. There is talk on the basis of research and international comparative surveys on the need not to discount from higher education standards and I hear how we are among the top countries in terms of the professional qualifications of teachers. I will find it difficult to explain why the MP in the Czech Republic decides to support the devaluation tendency in the requirements for teacher qualifications. Six. This is not the worst consequence of the proposed amendment. This demonstrates that the qualification of teachers is related to the results of pupils. But, following the possible adoption of the amendment, tears over worsening results will indeed be false and hypocritical. This amendment is real - and now, colleagues, forgive me for the expression, but it is authentic here - a scumbag and, given its mostly negative effects, I urge you not to recommend it for approval. Thank you politely for considering my arguments. - So much for the person who represented us both in the area of UNESCO and OECD in terms of the right to education of children, profesor. PhDr Stanislav Štech, and therefore former Minister of Education. I must say that, of course, if I have read this, although I have also been in the position of the highest, ministerial, and I know how difficult it is sometimes, and I am still dealing with the agenda of education policy as Vice-President of the Education Committee, so, of course, I was not happy about it. And I have to say that in the past few weeks and months, I have greater and greater concerns about these changes that come in the covid age, which affect the education system in a way that we could not have imagined, and in truth, I would rather that we all focus more on managing the impact of the covid on the education system and the quality of education of our children, what we do not have to spend, although the epidemic is going on for three quarters of a year, than on following the various experiments from which we are betrayed by experts, who in other ways we hear and like to refer to them. Since these professional institutions have not been heard in this proper process, I would like to introduce you to the COVID-19 and to the impact on the education system of the Czech Republic and the quality of our children's education with the opinion of the President of the Association of Deans of the Faculty of Education, Mr Jan Pick: Dear Member, I would like to address you once again on behalf of the Deans of the Faculty of Education of the Czech Republic with a few observations regarding the amendment to the Education Worker Act, which you are discussing today at second reading. It is probably understandable that the issue of the education of future educators is at our heart and that is why we are watching with some tension the wording and the way of this amendment. We are aware that its proposal responds in particular to the lack of qualified teachers in primary and secondary schools, which should continue to deepen in relation to demographic developments in the second grade of primary and secondary schools and the ageing population of teachers there. Unfortunately, the faculty preparing teachers does not currently leave enough graduates to adequately cover the requirements of practice. We appreciate the efforts of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports to address this issue since 2016. We do not believe that the proposed amendment will make a significant contribution to resolving this situation, but we fear that the consequences of the amendment will be negative. The proposed aim of the amendment is, above all, to allow entry to schools of experts who have not undergone standard teacher training. Please note that the current version of the law also allows the entry of experts who have not passed a standard teacher's study. - It's this. - The second grade primary school teacher is awarded a vocational qualification by higher education, obtained by a study in an accredited Master's degree programme of the field of study, which corresponds to the nature of the subject being taught and education in the lifelong learning programme carried out by the university and focused on the training of second grade primary school teachers or secondary school teachers. Here just a comment for you colleagues, because also some colleagues, such as for example. Václav Klaus Jr., moving in this direction, when, let's say, the amendments inspire this provision. In short, even the existing law on teaching workers allows professionals in vocational subjects to use their previous higher education in the field, in specialization. That means it's not true that it's something new. The problem in the amendment that we are discussing is not that we are defending it, because it is already possible for experts from other universities and other specializations to enter professional subjects and courses, but we want to prevent it and we have a problem with it becoming a rule, even for other subjects, let's say basics, such as. Mathematics, Czech, foreign language, and even there is a breakthrough into elementaristics. And I don't think any of you want anyone to teach your child without any qualifications, and now in covid, first or second grade. The fact that it doesn't make sense, I think it's absolutely clear. Now back to the President of the Association of Deans of the Faculty of Education, Jan Pick, who continues: This journey is undoubtedly used by a significant part of newly qualified primary school teachers. For example, the publicly available data from 2015 to 2016 shows that 7 105 of the then newly qualified primary school teachers were 3,568, i.e. 50,2 %, graduates of teaching faculties, 1 149, i.e. 16.2 %, graduates of other faculties of teacher education, and 2 288, i.e. 33.6 %, graduates of supplementary pedagogical studies in lifelong learning. [[16.20 hours]] The proposal for an amendment makes it possible for experts who have not undergone standard teacher training to enter as follows: The second grade elementary school teacher acquires the professional qualifications of higher education obtained by a study in an accredited Master's degree programme and education in a lifelong education programme carried out by a university, focused on the training of second grade elementary school teachers or secondary school teachers. The amendment therefore extends the ability to qualify for the teaching profession as well as for graduates of Master's degree programmes whose focus of study does not correspond to the nature of the subject. We do not object to the entry into schools of experts who know a well-educated area and complete their pedagogical competencies, but we are concerned about the proposed amendment, which stems from the possibility of entry into schools and graduates of Master's programmes that do not have a subject - colleagues and colleagues - which is essential - to do nothing. Another very often mentioned attribute of the amendment is the strengthening of the position of the headmaster of the school, ensuring that the director will lose his administration. - Here, the chairman of the Association draws attention to the second element, which would also be undoubtedly worthy, which means a reduction in the administration of directors, but he would be worthy of it if it were true. - Another very often mentioned attribute of the amendment is the strengthening of the position of the headmaster of the school, ensuring that the director will lose administration, writes the President of the Association of Deans of the Faculty of Education. We believe that this fact is overrated. The administrative burden of the school lies in the need to demonstrate that the school is actively looking for a teacher who already fulfils the prerequisite for professional qualifications. Just the fact that the Director has the power to recognise the qualifications of the teacher as being fulfilled for a maximum period of three years, we consider it very problematic because he challenges all previous efforts made by political representatives in recent years in the system of preparing future teachers. But let us also warn against excessive optimism that the administrative burden of directors will indeed fall significantly. Isn't the situation going to be similar to today's? Wouldn't the director prefer to rely on a proven unqualified teacher, such as a student of a teacher's program who hasn't completed his Master's degree course, before a graduate of a Master's degree programme whose focus of study doesn't correspond to the nature of the taught field? Wouldn't such a teacher be more appropriate after all? Doesn't the director get into a trap where he will have to prefer a master's degree graduate who has nothing to do with the subject being taught before a bachelor's or high school degree graduate whose character is much closer to school's needs but cannot recognize his qualifications? - Here, the chairman of the association is referring to the absurdity of the amendment in that she does not actually deal in any way with what the directors actually complain about in practice. They complain that they have to prove endlessly, for example during the inspection of the Czech School Inspectorate, that if they have a colleague who is not qualified there, they did everything they could to get a qualified colleague, and they also have to prove that they did not reject someone who is qualified, and it really was the only option. I would point out that this amendment is not a matter of concern. So it also does not address what the directors are complaining about this time, but teachers and teachers, and when they say well, we have a teacher's program, but not complete. For example, imagine a bachelor who completes his full master's studies in his spare time, which means two years longer, and this, of course, as if he weren't, doesn't solve the amendment, and basically beats him for wanting to be fully qualified. That doesn't make sense, of course. It's like you changed the law so that you don't care, let this surgeon continue to work and try to get it, and in the meantime you said that a plumber can operate, that it's basically okay and why not, if the hospital director ensures it with his responsibility. Another thing to which the President of the Association of Deans of the Faculty of Education is therefore returning is that he draws attention to the fact that the amendment, in our opinion - deans of the Faculty of Education - opens up the possibility for people without vocational education to enter schools in subjects they should be teaching and without any pedagogical competence, which we consider a dangerous precedent. Therefore, when discussing this amendment, we would like you to carefully consider the consequences that arise from it and which can thus significantly affect the education of future generations. Greetings Jan Picek, Chairman of the Association of Deans of the Faculty of Education. If I mention teaching faculties, it is not an accident, because they are teaching faculties that at this point are crucially affecting how our future teachers and teachers are educated, or how and how they complement the qualifications or application of existing colleagues who are already teaching and presenting themselves in the classrooms in front of the board every day and are trying to educate our children, pupils and students. The faculties of education were, of course, in 2013/2014 when the education system of teaching staff was adopted. I received the opinion of the then Association of Deans of the Faculty of Education then, i.e. from 2013, into my hand. I'm not reading them. The smiling thing is that it's basically quite similar to what I've just recapitulated. And what is worth mentioning is that back in 2013/2014 the Dean's Dean's Association of Teaching Faculties was talking about having, then, I note, 17 percent of unqualified teachers and teachers in the system in 2014. According to current data from the 2018/2019 school year, we have only a percentage of unqualified teachers and teachers within our education system. And I'm coming out, and here I think it's so important that I'm going to introduce you to this in more detail, from the main outputs of an extraordinary survey to the state of education of a teacher in the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, the Department of Education, Statistics, Analyses and Information Strategy. Now, why this skill is so important. In recent years, and it was just the previous government, that is to say, the government of social democracy, the ANO movement and the KDU-ČSL movement, which in a fundamental way in 2016, or already 2015, in terms of, say, the professional profile of the teacher for education at our teaching faculties, it was autumn 2015, that started changes aimed at improving the preparation of our teachers and teachers. But the main goal that we wanted to fulfil at the time was to reverse the percentage of teachers and teachers who were very low back then, graduates of teaching faculties, who then headed for a real teaching profession, that is, before the board. This was addressed by all steps of the resort 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019. And unfortunately, this novel, let's just say, doesn't exactly fit in, or goes against it. In recent years, we have fundamentally changed the way future teachers and teachers have been prepared at our teaching faculties. A new profile of the teaching profession has been accepted. At the same time, there was a major improvement in the funding of teaching faculties, which until then, 2016 were, say, such cinderellas among the other faculties of our venerable universities or universities, and let's say that even the lack of funding led to the fact that the teaching faculties were at the edge not only of university interest, but also of the logical interest of future students, or subsequently, if this study, which, in my view, is not easy and is very, let's say, general, and the outcome of education at the Faculty of Education is, in my opinion, a really high-quality and deep general education across the disciplines, so highly qualified people have subsequently become successful everywhere. [[16.30 hours]] By the way, a large part of them, for example, in marketing, in the media, among journalists there are a number of former teachers and teachers who are graduates of teaching faculties, so all these qualified teachers, teachers with regard to poor teacher evaluations, prestige and other conditions for the performance of their profession did not enter the schools. They didn't get in front of the board to teach our children, our students and our students. And this problem was recognized by the Ministry of Education and tried to reverse it. I am saying this because there has also been a reversal of this trend in recent years. In a fundamental way, teachers' evaluations have improved, professional support has improved, teaching faculties have received many times higher funds, and European money has also been raised to support career orders within teaching faculties. In short, these things have succeeded, and also the feedback of the teaching faculty parties shows that there is an increase in the percentage of teachers and teachers, graduates of teaching faculties who also head to schools before the board and really teach, which means that they will not only remain qualified teachers who have completed the teaching faculty, but are going to teach our children, pupils and students. And that, of course, is our main objective. I note that in this respect, the Faculty of Education of Masaryk University in Brno, which can motivate and prepare its students and students so that more than 80 percent of its graduates will be put into practice. I note that this trend has had a major impact not only on the improvement of teacher and teacher evaluations, but - and I think that this has succeeded - in changing the approach to the teaching profession, and what is also important to mention, the new functional system of faculty schools and teacher training, the deepening of practice and the gradual trend through institutional accreditation, which is another fundamental change that has taken place over the last five years, to achieve that the teaching faculties have actually become better places, or even better places for the education and training of our teachers and teachers. But in no way does all of this go together with what has been presented to us as an amendment to the law on teaching workers and thus support the profession of teacher. If I mentioned the qualifications of teachers and the percentages we started with, then in the year 2018/2019, it was found that around 6.6 percent of the posts were associated with teachers who did not meet the qualifications of the law and are therefore likely employed for a period of time strictly necessary or to the extent necessary. It is important to say that situations differ significantly in individual regions. In individual regions, the situation is different. Although this percentage would be, say, optimistic and would show that we have moved significantly since 2014, with regard to the situation in the individual regions, there are regions where this share is even more than 10 percent, for example the Karlovy Vary Region 12,5 % or the Central Bohemia Region 12 % or even Prague 10.4 %. On the contrary, there are regions where this share is less than 4 % - Zlinský kraj 2.8 %, which is, let's say, our favorite premiere in terms of teacher skills, but also the quality of children's education, which, of course, is fundamentally related. Moravian-Silesian Region 3,3 %, Vysočina Region 3,5 % and Olomoucky Region 3.6 %. The more risky teachers who fail to complete their education are qualified. Above the Republic average are the Karlovy Vary Region - 5.5 %, Central Bohemia Region - 5.2 %, Prague - 3.7 % and Ustecky Region - 3.4 %. The higher these shares, the number of jobs, the more complicated it may be to find optimal compensation. In the case of kindergartens, teachers who do not meet the qualifications of the law are associated with a total of 5.4 percent of the posts, the highest proportion of unqualified is Prague - 9.5%, followed by the Central Bohemia Region - 9 percent, again the lowest of our favorite premier Zlínský kraj - 1,2 percent. At the first level of primary schools, teachers who do not meet the qualification requirements of the law are associated with a total of 8.9 % of posts, the highest proportion of non-qualified is the Karlovy Vary Region again - 18,4%, values exceeding 10 % are still found in the Central Bohemia Region, this is 17,4%, Prague - 15,6 % and Ústí Region - 10,2 %. The lowest value is characterised by the South Bohemia Region 3.9 %. At the second grade of primary schools, teachers who do not meet the qualification requirements of the law have a total of 7 per cent of the posts, the highest proportion of non-qualified as in the first grade of primary schools is the Karlovarský kraj - 19 per cent, values exceeding 10 per cent are also found in the Ústí Region - 14,2 per cent, the Central Bohemia Region - 12,9 per cent and Prague - 11.4 per cent. The lowest value is characterized by the Olomouc Region - 2,4 %. Below 3 % is the Vysočina Region - 2.6 %, Zlín Region - 2.7 % and Moravian-Silesian Region - 2.8 %. High school teachers who do not meet qualification requirements characterize more than 2,000 posts, 5.3 %. The highest proportion of unqualified is the Ústí Region - 9.6%, the lowest is found in the Zlín Region - 2.3 percent. More than a third of the total number of more than 2,000 posts are for general educational subjects, about a third for vocational subjects and a quarter for vocational training, less than 4 percent for practical teaching. Teachers of higher vocational schools who do not meet the qualification requirements are 5,2 %, that is 64,7 (%) of posts. The highest number is shown by the South Bohemia Region - 18.1 %, the lowest Olomouc Region - 0.6 %. However, in the case of higher vocational schools, these are statistics on small numbers, where the comparison between regions is distorted. Of the total number of 64.7 % of the part, almost three quarters are associated with the teaching of professional subjects, which is 47.8 of the part. I purposely wanted the way we stand in the qualifications of teachers to be heard here at the plenary. I note that compared to other countries, we are, therefore, the better at how we manage the qualifications of teachers. And I would also like to say that, as far as the total number of 170 thousand teachers is concerned, the question of unqualifiedness really concerns, and you have probably heard this very well, just a fraction of them. On the contrary, it is clear that if we have problems, we have regional problems, and very serious ones. This law, although it contains rules on professional support for teachers and other pedagogical and non-teaching workers, does not respond in any way. I must say, of course, that I am not pleased, especially in a situation where we are faced with a covid and one could assume that some such proposals will be formulated and, if this law is open, they will also be dealt with transparently in the House's premises, whether through the school committee, the Social Committee, the Budget Committee, because of course everything is linked to money or the House plenary. I didn't notice anything like that. I didn't hear anything like that. Of course, I think of it logically as a wasted opportunity. So as for qualified teachers and the huge amount of resources that we have spent over the past five years to increase the qualification of teachers, to improve the higher number of teachers and teachers, to graduates of teaching faculties and to maintain these graduates in schools, so how much we have put on, what efforts we have had to overcome, I really consider this as a blow to the eyes of all those involved in some way for five years. Of course, first of all, those teachers and teachers who have taken qualifications and skills seriously, and, as I say, in their spare time for their resources with great difficulty, sometimes repeatedly, have tried to maintain or fulfill the issue of competence and commitment in order to educate pupils, children and students as best as possible. [[16.40 hours]] But what makes me happy, but it surprises me again that it did not sound here in the Chamber of Deputies, is that more than thousands, I feel that it is 6,000 teachers in the 2018/2019 school year, and I am pointing out qualified teachers, who have been awarded teachers, have returned to the education system and to our schools. This means that they were those who had left for a number of reasons in recent years or in the past decade and responded to the change in assessment, the perception of teacher status, the strategy, the weight of education and the education of children in the current representation, whether in the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate or the Government, and responded by returning to the teaching ranks. I consider these thousands of teachers and teachers not to be the first swallow, but quite a crucial signal that this policy of promoting the profession of teacher, ensuring sufficient qualified and respected teachers and teachers in schools has begun to thrive. From this point of view, therefore, I do not understand the proposed change, I do not understand it. And I have to say, I'm actually concerned that the government, or that we as a government, are not bragging more about these achievements and that we are not taking further steps on them. Because if some changes have worked, we should continue them instead of turning the helm somewhere else. A separate chapter is how it responds to the professional support of teachers in the long-term aim of developing an education system that has not yet been discussed here by the House's plenary on how the 2030+ Strategy responds. Because I think that I am not alone, if I have to say with a relatively dismay that these documents, which are strategic, are new and are government documents, do not in any way fit what we now have on the table and what we are discussing. I think this should change, of course. As regards the state of, say, in terms of the qualification and competence of teachers and teachers within our schools, it is necessary to summarize here that the share of graduates entering the school ranks is increasing, at the same time, the systemic expansion of faculty schools. There is an increase in experience throughout the study period, and it also occurs that our future teachers and teachers acquire their experience and knowledge during their studies not only in their specializations, in their expertise, in subjects in the subject matter, but also in other competences that the teacher must now master or recognise in terms of the skills and abilities of pupils. As for the brief summary, I'd like to use my mouth... Mr President, I would ask you to calm down so that Mr Ferjenčík through you, because I hear every word he says, and it does not please me, including if I wanted to repeat it to the microphone, which I will consider in the following debate, if I do so. It just tells us again how expertly the debate in the House is on this subject. I believe that if someone disagrees with any opinion, it is the House where we should communicate these views with each other, and it would be good if we also responded to the arguments we say, then we did not resort to different tactics to enforce or not to enforce something. From my point of view and from the experience of me as former Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, I assure you, and I think it would be confirmed by each of my predecessors or predecessors that the amendment to the Education Worker Act is a key document, especially in this time of study, and its time of discussion, I think in sum, does not go beyond the time that school press is otherwise being discussed. Now, then, to a brief summary of the extraordinary investigation that I consider important. Not that I want to disrespect your time or take it away, colleagues and colleagues, but I think that if the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports spends time and means to formulate the main outputs of an extraordinary inquiry into the state of teaching a teacher in the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education, I consider it quite essential that the House hears these outputs. I consider it even more fundamental that these outputs should also be reflected in the draft laws presented by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. If they are not reflected, then, of course, it is good to hear why they are not reflected and why the opposite is done. That's what I think is quite essential, and I'm sure it's not just my concern. From the point of view of the brief summary, I would without doubt like to summarize and short-cut that around 150.6 thousand teachers worked in regional education in the Ministry of Education, SŽ and VŠ at the time of the investigation, regardless of the type of employment. I quote, here's how over the last two school years, the numbers of posts have been significantly clarified. Because if I'm not mistaken, the number is currently 170,000. That is also why, by the way, we should look at what qualifications and qualifications and qualifications of teachers and teachers look like, and whether the changes that we are making lead to a rise in qualifications and aprobability, or vice versa, maybe unintentionally, unwittingly, may lead to the support of trends that will further strengthen unskilled and unanthropy. And I note that, of course, as our teacher numbers increase following, among other things, the reform of regional education funding, the reduction of the number of children in key subjects, the division of classes, teaching, etc., so we should bear in mind that the qualification and the application should be monitored and also supported by law. The second package that I want to comment on is not qualified and applied, nor is it said that it is a reduced administrative burden, because I think that from the point of view of the experts that I have put forward here, it is quite clear how it is or is not, so I want to comment on the second package, and this is a question of specific professional support for beginners, but also of support for specialized activities, and also, let's say, anchoring the Institute of Teachers. As regards the support of early teachers and teachers, their inclusion in the Education Worker Act, this follows up on the previous legislative steps of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, and I, of course, support the introduction of the Institute of Teachers. However, what bothers me from the perspective of the current version of the Education Worker Act is that although we describe that a system of support for early teachers should be established in the future, and we should ensure that these early teachers are supported by the teachers appointed by the school principal, that is, of course, fine, but the Education Worker Act does not say anything else except this summary. It bothers me, therefore, that there is no precise link, especially to the evaluation, and it is therefore unclear to what extent, I point out, with certainty and honestly financed this system. [[16.50 hours]] As regards the long-term aim of the development of the education system, this is a government document, which states that this system should be financed by now. It is not clear, however, if the law on teaching workers passes through second reading, whether these - and Mrs Melková, through you, actually regulated the start of the law on teaching workers. So it is not clear, and I think it should be heard here, how, at this point in 2021 and beyond, funds are provided for the very system of beginners and teachers. The same applies to the sorting industry, which is therefore true to God, although the strategic documents both in the long-term intention of developing the education system and in the strategy of education policy 2030+ are quite crucial - I note that about everyone who knows what is going on in education and in the education of children of the last three quarters of the year understands how important the position of the teacher is and how absolutely irreplaceable it will be and how important it will be in the following weeks and months, where we will be standing before equalizing the inequalities in quality and in the level of education that have occurred in children of different schools, different regions, different levels of education in recent weeks and months, as well as following the different socio-economic situation of individual families. That's what all the experts agree on. However, the government's bill does not in any way regulate the classroom or class teachers. I note that, for example, Slovakia has had this for several years and, of course, this has enabled them to respond better within the education system in case of ensuring the quality of education and eliminating inequalities when they had to deal with the consequences of COVID-19 on education this year. That is why I am calling, and I will talk about this later in more detail, the amendment of the group of Members, which adds some additional proposal to the solution, how classrooming, the evaluation of classrooms, but even a description of what classrooming is and how important it is for the quality of education of our children, to write into this law. Of course, I have registered a number of amendments made by a number of colleagues to classrooms both at first reading and in the school committee. I think that Marek Výborný, Jiří Mihola, Lukáš Bartoň have applied some suggestions through you, and I believe that we will have a proper debate on them within the school committee as a guarantee committee. I would certainly like it not to end in a way that everyone says something to each other, and eventually, class teachers, as always, will end up not being modified in any way or professionally supported. Other issues are specialized activities. Here again, the government amendment from the workshop of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports again did nothing about the promotion of specialized activities. Again, I consider this a wasted opportunity and not fulfilling what the government's strategic documents have called us to, and therefore individual government resolutions and, after all, the government's agenda, the government's programming declaration. However, I have also registered here that many colleagues come up with various proposals for specialization activities. I'd probably pierce three. The first concerns a social educator. Here I will again describe and justify the amendment of the group of Members, but again I have noted that there is a number of efforts, and here I am just saying in general that we will certainly support as Social Democrats the efforts to push a social educator into the amendment of the law on teaching workers, and we are, of course, ready to agree on, say, one change, one amendment, so that at least something passes, in short, that the social educator should be among those professions to help teachers and teachers in schools, but above all children, pupils and students to master learning and the best results in education. The second issue is the methodology of school prevention. Here I have to say that, as we listen to the litany about how horrible the school climate or terrible bullying is, and that the methodology of school prevention was quite overwhelmingly voted out by the Chamber of Deputies in the spring of 2017, even then by the Senate, but only in the sense that only the House and the Senate are fighting over who has a better solution and who gives so-called more, so it turned out that then, and it is true, unfortunately, that the methodology of school prevention has nothing. I must say that this is the most common profession which is quite desperately addressing us Members and Members with a view to improving the conditions for their work. And if I complement school logos, and here I am delighted that the school committee has adopted one of the solutions to school speech for the future, and they will believe and I will also strive for the final vote of the Chamber of Deputies to support this change by its majority, so it is at least some swallow, a glimpse that school logos, because you know that the logopedic problems today have each other's child, they will have their respective professional anchors, but also support not only in the Education Worker Act. However, if I mentioned these three specialized activities, whether it is a social pedagogue, a methodology for school prevention or school logos, the question here is quite similar to that of the classroom and the reporting teachers, namely how the possible implementation in the following years is taken into account in the budget and in the budgetary perspective. In particular, I believe that absolutely crucial, if this is not a law for the law, in addition, as I say, pending in the covido period when all these three professions, support professions, take on a huge importance in terms of addressing inequalities between children, I would really consider it a wasted opportunity if, as a result of the amendment to the law on teaching workers in the House, we could not respond to that as Members and Members and children, pupils, students, teachers, teachers and, of course, parents. The third issue that I would mention in my speech is that, as far as the law on teaching workers is concerned, it is certainly a key law and we should not in any way neglect the debate we are having here, and also take advantage of the fact that, if this law is currently open in the Chamber of Deputies, then, following the impact of the COVID-19 on the education system, it is appropriate to respond accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u11	Thank you. We will continue the general debate. Mr Staněk, who has broken up, can now proceed and Mrs GajdůGajdůšková will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u12	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me continue, but I think that my previous speaker Kateřina Valachová, Mr President, spoke here about the fact that it would be good if we had discussed the amendment to the law on teaching workers in a matter of fact once more. I'm not sure if it's the famous tossing of peas on the wall and not talking to the open, but I'm afraid of closed doors. However, anyone who believes that he can do a little to correct what appears to be and not only does he appear to be, but is, in fact, at least imperfect must do so. A little while ago, the press conference ended. She had a very representative representation among the representatives of trade unions, the Czech Moravian Union of Workers in Education, the Pedagogical Chamber, the Association of Deans of the Faculty of Education and other important experts in the field of education of future teachers. [[17,00 hours]] Everyone agreed on this, or we all agreed that the proposed amendment to the Education Act is difficult for many of us to understand. We do not know what specifically leads the Ministry of Education and Pirates to push this amendment like a bulldozer in front of them. In a situation where, in essence, existing legislative standards make it possible to implement what this amendment essentially wants, say, to remedy. Mrs Valachová here spoke of factual figures. I'm not gonna repeat the numbers again. I'm just going to use one analogy that was made at the press conference today. You might have noticed that those unqualified teaching staff working in our education are a relatively modest percentage. There is also a very low percentage of unapplied ones. As my colleague Valachová said, they are scattered between regions. So it's not a national problem, it's a regional problem. And the analogy was, we're going to use a carpet raid on problems that are tied to small sections, like we're going to bomb the whole world. Maybe I'd like to compare the amendment to a law on pedagogical workers with a kind of superbomb to fix what can be fixed, possibly with a medical scalpel, or some tool capable of maintenance. That it is not only my opinion, but it is the opinion of the professional public, let me introduce you to the reaction of the teaching faculties, with the response that has been sent to the Chamber of Deputies: Dear Member, I would like to address you once again on behalf of the Deans of the Faculty of Education of the Czech Republic with a few observations regarding the amendment to the Education Worker Act, which you are discussing today at second reading. It is probably understandable that the issue of the education of future educators is at our heart and that is why we are watching with some tension the wording and the way of this amendment. We are aware that its proposal primarily responds to the lack of qualified teachers in primary and secondary schools, which should continue to deepen there in the context of demographic developments in the second grade of primary and secondary schools and the ageing population of teachers. Unfortunately, the faculty preparing teachers does not currently leave enough graduates to adequately cover the requirements of practice. We appreciate the efforts of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports to address this issue. We do not believe that the proposed amendment will make a significant contribution to resolving this situation, but we fear that the consequences of the amendment may be negative. The proposed aim of the amendment is, above all, to allow entry to schools of experts who have not undergone standard teacher training. Please note that the current version of the law also allows the entry of experts who have not passed a standard teacher's study. The second grade elementary school teacher is awarded a vocational qualification by a university degree obtained by a study in an accredited Master's degree programme of the field of study which corresponds to the nature of the subject being taught, and by an education in a lifelong education programme carried out by a university and focused on the training of second grade elementary or secondary school teachers. A significant part of the newly qualified primary school teachers are undoubtedly taking advantage of this journey. For example, the publicly available data from 2015/2016 shows that 7 105 of the then newly qualified primary school teachers were 3 568, i.e. 50,2%, graduates of teaching faculties, 1 149, i.e. 16.2 %, graduates of other teaching faculties and 2,388, i.e. 33.6 percent, graduates of supplementary pedagogical studies in lifelong learning. The proposal for an amendment amends the condition allowing the entry of experts who have not undergone standard teacher training as follows. Citation: "A second-level elementary school teacher is awarded a vocational qualification by a university degree obtained by a study in an accredited Master's degree programme and by an education in a lifelong learning programme carried out by a university focused on the training of second-grade elementary school teachers or secondary schools. The amendment therefore extends the ability to qualify for the teaching profession as well as for graduates of Master's degree programmes whose focus of study does not correspond to the nature of the subject being taught." I would repeat this sentence once again for this reason, because I consider it one of the three reasons why we are talking today that this amendment is not good. The amendment extends the ability to qualify for the teaching profession as well as for graduates of Master's degree programmes whose focus of study does not correspond to the nature of the subject. Furthermore, the opinion of the faculty states: We do not object to the entry of experts who know the field and complete their pedagogical competencies. But we are concerned about the proposed amendment, which stems from the fact that it will also be possible for graduates of Master's programmes who have nothing to do with the subject being taught. Another, very often mentioned, attribute of the amendment, is the strengthening of the position of the school head, ensuring that the director will lose his administration. We believe that this fact is overrated. The administrative burden of the school lies in the need to demonstrate that the school is actively looking for a teacher who already fulfils the prerequisite for professional qualifications. Just the fact that the Director has the power to recognise the qualifications of the teacher as being completed for a maximum period of three years, we consider it very problematic because he challenges all previous efforts made by political representatives in recent years in the system of preparing future teachers. However, we also warn against excessive optimism that the administrative burden of directors will indeed fall significantly. Isn't the situation going to be similar to today's? The director would rather not rely on a proven unqualified teacher, e.g. also a student of a teacher's programme who has not completed a Master's degree before a Master's degree programme graduate whose study and focus does not correspond to the nature of the taught course? Wouldn't such a teacher be more appropriate after all? Doesn't the director get into a trap where he will have to prefer a master's degree graduate who has nothing to do with the subject being taught before a bachelor's or high school degree graduate whose character is much closer to school's needs but cannot recognize his qualifications? In our opinion, the amendment opens the possibility for people without vocational education to enter schools in subjects they should teach and without any pedagogical competence, which we consider dangerous precedent. Therefore, when discussing this amendment, we ask them to consider carefully the consequences that arise from it and which can thus significantly affect the education of future generations. [[Don't you think so?]] [[17.10 hours]] Dear colleagues, I have noticed that some of them, and unfortunately I would also say, among important representatives, who should take the opinion of teaching faculties seriously, their position was sparked by a smile on their lips. I am sorry, because who other than the representatives of the faculty of education can actually express themselves in a factual and professional way about the problem that any amendment to the law on teaching workers can cause? [[The Minister responds from the rapporteur's desk.]] It's possible. I'm not confusing the faculty and the chamber, Mr. Secretary. [[He's showing the minister the sheets of paper.]] If you see here, that's the opinion of the faculty of education. [[The Minister is responding.]] Association. No. I've read this association. As far as the chamber is concerned, I'll read it now. [[The Minister is responding.]] I didn't say you laughed about it. I would like to say that this position was confirmed today at the press conference by representatives of teaching faculties. They spoke of the risks associated with this amendment and, at the same time, believe that it would be good not to spill out of the tub with the newly born child who is hiding in some amendments, and good thoughts, therefore, and just to put away what is not right. There is not much, and it can be corrected very reasonably if the bill goes back to its first reading. I think the proposal was made here in the previous debate, and maybe it will. It's not just the opinion of the faculty of education. The Pedagogical Chamber, which brings together a small number of members who fundamentally disagree with the changes that are part of this government bill, has also expressed its opinion on the amendment, and is calling on us to reject the amendment at first reading, so that we can return it to the government and the Ministry of Education for revision. Well, it wasn't rejected at first reading, it got to second reading, and today it's obviously the subject of some exchange of something for something to go through this second reading and get to the third reading as soon as possible and was approved as soon as possible. Despite the resistance of the experts. I don't know if it would be possible to do the same in other cases, e.g. for doctors, drivers, etc. In terms of some kind of survey, and this is the survey that the Pedagogical Chamber has done, that most of the respondents, almost 91 percent, do not want pupils to be taught by people without pedagogical education. They believe that this would have a negative impact on the quality of teaching, for example. The Czech School Inspection also pointed out, and on the contrary, it would be good to increase the level and degree of education, etc. I don't think any of us who criticize this novel today would mind touching high schools, schools, schools, etc. But for unknown reasons, these unqualified, unapplied teachers will also be able to teach at second grade primary schools. This is not a solution to the problem of lack of teaching staff. This is not the problem of addressing the lack of teachers at second grade primary schools. So we're not here to stop the experts from entering schools to teach children, but we're here to keep them from entering second grade elementary schools. After all, there is the foundation of education, and here they should really teach qualified people, and if it is only a little possible, respected teachers. I've already pointed out the basic difference between a qualified teacher and a qualified teacher. Ladies and gentlemen, there is certainly at least one Member among you who has met with a great expert in his life and should have been taught by this expert. Although you could have had a really great professional debate with him, he failed as a teacher. I myself have met some great experts. But unfortunately, I certainly wouldn't include them as great teachers. And they themselves admitted that teaching is a little more complicated than just standing in front of pupils in class, but it's the ability to process a 45-minute teaching hour so that you can squeeze in everything that's necessary to fulfill your teaching goal to pass on what's professionally in your head, but to pass it on to the pupil, the pupils are able to understand it. The art of teaching, the art of passing on to others knowledge, skills and competence, it is not only to have professional knowledge, but it is also an extraordinary ability, sometimes innate, sometimes naturally acquired, but also built and developed during studies at teaching faculties. The criticism of teaching faculties for not always perfectly preparing future teachers is not entirely targeted. Yes, they have their reserves, but this is mainly due to the fact that, as structured study at teaching faculties for three-year Bachelor's degree, where most students acquire professional knowledge, and two-year Master's follow-up, of course, the space for the pedagogical preparation of future teachers decreased considerably. The number of hours that pupils spend on practice has been significantly reduced. In the past there was a chance that they could go through all levels and forms of pedagogical activity, they could try it out in primary schools, in secondary schools, in vocational schools, at grammar school. At present, it has significantly shrinked for only a few possible hours, and even here there are large reserves. Teachers who accompany the future student are rewarded so ridiculously for analyzing their teaching experiments that they can possibly advise them where they made a mistake, what they could do better, where they could, for example, take advantage of a different procedure etc., so they are rewarded so ridiculously that in this case it is really possible to talk about the fact that these people are only doing this because they love their profession and that they are very happy and willing to use their leisure time to give it to teachers. [[17.20 hours]] But so far, I've also talked about the fact that it's divided into the technical part and the special pedagogical, psychological part. Even psychology is an extremely important part of the preparation of a future teacher. You have no machine in front of you, no object that can be carved with tools, but you have a living person, a child in front of you. Often in that class you have thirty pupils who each have a life story, have a personal experience, whether with problems in life or others. And you need to be prepared for that. It's just not enough to have just expertise. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendment to the law, and this minimum, the expertise, is being cut off. I'm asking why. Oh, my God. Why? Why didn't we leave what had been paid so far, what didn't bother anyone? It was a subject of criticism, but we were able to deal with it. This means that let the expert teach the master, but let him have a degree in his field, at least a relative. And it's not like history can really be taught by an engineer. Maybe a major enthusiast, but he's not a graduate. There may be a number of situations that we are talking about. Qualified teachers with pedagogical education will be replaced by unqualified workers without pedagogical education and will result in an additional impact on the quality of Czech education. What is the subject of criticism of the amendment, second to the issue of qualification, is an adaptation period. This is a problem that the Pedagogical Chamber and experts also draw attention to. This will additionally mean another job for the teacher to present, for which he will not receive any claim fee, as originally proposed in 2017. It should have been either an additional fee of CZK 3,000 per month or a reduction in the degree of direct pedagogical activity in order to enable the teacher to attend the teaching of an early teacher. The teacher's claims will be enormous. If he does not mention qualified graduates from teaching faculties or other faculties that provide this study, he will mention unqualified workers without knowledge in the field of education, psychology, special pedagogy, didactics and probation courses and without any practice in education, with whose more massive influx counts the amendment, it will be a really difficult job. Some educators - and here I say, really like their work - say that they prefer their free time to those who really appreciate their comments and suggestions rather than those who may still have to be corrected in their expert review. Another problem is that a starting teacher, to whom an official teacher must be assigned, will not be considered as a self-employed employee from the perspective of the government's regulation on the catalogue of works in public services and administration. It will therefore have to be placed in a lower grade as head of the school for two years. The 11th grade instead of the 12th, see Methodological Interpretation on the remuneration of teaching staff and other staff of schools and educational establishments and their classification in grades according to the catalogue of works of the Ministry of Education. Contrary to current practice, both the school head and the starting primary and secondary school teacher may be assigned to the twelfth grade immediately after the three-month probationary period. The calculation, based on the approved version of the relevant Government regulation for 2020, warns the representatives of the Pedagogical Chamber that it is considered that the compulsory classification of the lower grade will start by up to CZK 7,920 gross. In the case of kindergarten teachers, it will be the eighth grade instead of the ninth grade. According to the Government's approved regulation, the difference will be CZK 5,900 gross in 2020, which for two years amounts to minus - please listen - CZK 141,600 in the case of a begining kindergarten teacher. This is the opinion of the Pedagogical Chamber, which has been sent to Members and Members of the Committee on Science and Education. And unfortunately, it didn't translate into a law amendment. The third problem that the amendment brings is, of course, accreditation in the framework of further education of teaching staff, when the proposal for an amendment to the Education Worker Act adds a new administrative burden to school directors, but the bureaucracy for the Ministry of Education officials tries to reduce. Again, however, in a completely inappropriate way, it is proposed that educational events organised in the context of continuing education of teaching staff should not be accredited at all except for qualification studies. The system, when the Ministry of Education accredits both the educational institution that organizes the educational event, while also accrediting each individual educational event separately, is certainly administratively demanding. But there is no way to accredit anything. For one thing, the Ministry of Education is directly required under European programmes, such as current in the relevant operational programmes, to complete only educational events that are accredited by the Ministry of Education. Then where will the teachers be educated? First, accredited educational events are exempted from payment of VAT. If the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Education Worker Act were approved in the form presented to us, this would ultimately mean an increase in VAT courses for teachers and schools. And please, the nice means that schools have today, the so-called ONIV, have not been raised for several years, and they are, in fact, very often consumed in connection with hospitalization or other links associated with, for example, medical teachers. The resources are then lacking in other necessary things. I understand that many of you are wondering that it is worth spending so much time behind the speaker's counter because of the law on teaching workers. I appreciated my fellow doctors, who fought very cordially for the principles and principles associated with their profession and their qualifications. I am not gifted with such rhetorical art as my colleagues doctors who have been able to make the auditorium of the Chamber of Deputies laugh. But I don't think that the debate about the amendment to the law on pedagogical workers is a debate that should give you a smile on your face. Unfortunately, I believe that there is more or less a consensus on what they want to say, let them state the arguments they want, let Jan Amos Komenskýý stand up against the novel, if he could get up, we'll still get what we want. This is not a fight against the opposition - a coalition, or some coalition brawl. This is indeed a substantive problem, which is contained in the amendment to the Education Worker Act. It's visible, it's described, it's defined. And still and still it's like you're throwing games at the wall. [[17.30 hours]] I do not think you will be convinced by any other example of what this amendment can do. The Czech Republic and in the past Czechoslovakia have built one of the best forms of teacher training for pupils requiring specialized care, so-called special educators, but we can meet thanks to this amendment that actually pupils, our children, who will require such a specialized approach, will eventually teach a teacher without qualifications, but we will be crossed out, we can somehow be satisfied with statistics. I have already talked about this at first reading, colleagues and colleagues, we treat investments that go from public funds to university training, and now not just teachers and future teachers, but a number of professions, very, I would say, laxly. I'm gonna stay at the teacher's. Yes, teaching faculties admit that the number of students leaving the faculty is not enough to fill all those vacancies, especially in some regions where there is a real shortage of qualified teachers. But still, the gates of teaching faculties leave the graduates of teaching faculties, teachers with degrees, qualifications and standards, but, like, they don't go to education, they go anywhere else, where they either offer better benefits, higher salaries, or they just disappear somewhere else. Who cares? Who solves this problem? Well, I have a very good hearing that doesn't even covid me, because it only destroys the smell and taste, it hasn't been affected, which is a disadvantage for sitting here on my right. [[at the rapporteur's table]] But as generous as my previous speaker, Mrs. Kateřina Valachová, I will not be generous because the remark was something about the CSSD. So I think that rubbing our shoes on social democracy on the subject of education will probably not be so difficult for my opponents, but I think it would be good if we didn't rub each other off because we each have our skeletons. But let's move on and not run away from the essence of the message. I'm asking, who cares how many graduates of teaching schools don't get into schools? And why aren't they getting in? And what can we do to prevent that from happening? At this point, I am addressing the Minister through the President, although he says we do not have to. Minister, at this point, I do not think that the amendment to the Education Worker Act, as presented, is essential for it to be approved so quickly and in this form. I think it would be good for all of us, for the pedagogical public, and especially for our future pupils, if we could look at her again, to get out of her what she got for incomprehensible, perhaps for some understandable reasons. There's a solution, either to reject the whole bill, but I think it would be a shame. There's a lot of good stuff in there. But I think there are ways to work on this law, and I think the proposals will still appear here, and it would be good if we didn't show the power of law this time in the form of pushing it through, no matter what happens, no matter what. Please, really consider not today, let's say, my performance, but consider the arguments of the professional public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u13	Thank you. Mr Jiří Mihola will now speak with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u14	Thank you. Really short reaction. I actually wanted to remind you of what my colleague Staněk said in his speech. I mean, the situation with the doctors here, you'll remember that, it was recently, we were having a very serious discussion. I don't think children in the hands of teachers at school are anything less than patients in the hands of doctors. So I think it's a pretty good example. Otherwise, I believe that the Minister too, as we discuss with each other, takes the view that we are discussing matters. And even though I am from the opposition, I therefore commend the issue of raising wages, honestly. The way I go, Minister, I commend you here, I don't care what side it is - coalition, opposition. I commend you. When we were dealing with a delay in math, you know that we were more likely from the opposition than some of the coalitions. So I really believe that's how you feel about it, that it's not some tough fight, and whenever I perform, I try to hold on to the real problem as such, and I've never read from any other book. But there's more to the questions in these shows than the answers, maybe we were looking forward to a little more moderation, as you can see with the extras for the homeroom and all that. And since there are really many amendments, and I think that this is a very serious matter that we cannot simply resolve, that it will end somehow, or it will not happen at all, I would like to propose under Paragraph 93 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure shall refer the draft law back to the guarantee committee for renegotiation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u15	Yes, thank you. After the general debate, we will vote on this proposal. Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although I am not a member of the Education Committee, my profession is original and my whole life in education is in a way that I have been moving from different positions. So I would like to intercede for us to really think about not pouring out the baby with the bathtub, so that we can come back with this bill and really make it a good way for the professional public to be satisfied, so that our children can have the best of the best, because they need it and they deserve it. You know, there's nothing new under the sun trying to reduce the qualifications of teachers. I remember the 1990s when there were neoliberal proposals in the sense: why a teacher at the first grade of primary school should have a university, a high school student can read, write, and count. It was also to the second degree, where it was suggested - there was talk of some higher vocational school or something similar. Luckily, the effort didn't work out, and the teachers stayed in college, their qualifications were important, and they were good. And it is necessary because a child is not just a reduced person, children are personalities, every single child is a great personality and is very sensitive to what he encounters. That's why the teacher has to be able to impress the children. Remember your teachers you remember, some you remember in a good way, some in a less good way, that's just it. [[17.40 hours]] It must also be realized that today the teacher is not just a bearer of information, some of the children may have more than the teachers themselves. But the teacher must be the authority for the child, he must be able to impress the children, he must develop the ability to see things systematically, he must teach them critical thinking, see connections, work with information. Dear colleagues, I am probably one of the few who taught in this House and, on the one hand, actually worked in the private sector and in the field of education in a different way. So I have a comparison and a warning. The reduction of requirements for the qualification of teachers will not strengthen prestige, and therefore the authority of the education system or teachers themselves. And that it is necessary, we see more today than ever and in nature. Knowledge of outside-school practice can be a great advantage, but it must not mean that children will be taught in an untrained, unqualified manner, as my previous speakers have spoken about it. On the contrary, we need to wish that teachers were well-founded, real personalities, as I mentioned. They should also be paid well for this. I'm going to repeat a quote that I may have already said from this place several times. Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk already said he was a bad state that pays his generals better than teachers. It is therefore important, above all, to set up the remuneration of teachers so that graduates of teaching universities do not go outside of education, as Kateřina Valachová said. This is also related to the support that graduates receive on their arrival. We know, and there have been figures that many graduates will not attend school at all. But we also know specific cases where a graduate of a teaching university entered and left within a year. In order to prevent this and to prevent graduates from remaining in the pedagogical profession, so that we do not have to look for ways to provide education for children without qualified teachers, this is what Kateřina Valachová, Tonda Staněk and I, along with them, are looking for. Important in this amendment is the provision stating the teacher and the definition of the adaptation period. I remember when I got on maternity leave to the first grade where I taught, there was something like that back then. And the colleague who helped us, I wasn't the only one who got on like this, actually walked with us an hour after hour, went through the preparations with us, including how to impress the kids, how to motivate them, how to work. The warden has been paying attention to us. He's always stood up for us in relation to our parents. And that was very important. And I can say from time to time today that, of course, the university, the faculty of education, has prepared us very well. And here I could remember for a long time. But if the parents of my former students meet me today and they remember that I taught their children, then I owe it to the teacher who was able to walk with us an hour after an hour before we really learned how to be those teachers. Another substantial support that teachers now need more than ever is support and, in turn, the definition and reward of classrooms. At a time of distance education, at a time when school teachers are learning how to work differently than they have been used to so far, at a time when families are getting into social problems, the role of a class teacher in coordinating all the problems that arise is very important and the importance of classwork is growing. Training in schools, children's problems, family problems place higher demands on teachers and teachers, even in those skills and knowledge outside the period of direct teaching. That is why our amendment also anchors specialised activities in some areas of expertise. I consider it very important today, from the point of view of social affairs, from the point of view of the Committee on Social Affairs and this whole expertise, to the position of a social educator. Again, the present unpleasant situation where, as I have said about it, the covide pandemic has hit us in education as such, it opens threateningly scissors between children from different social levels. And this isn't just ICT equipment. After all, this succeeded and it is necessary to thank the House for deciding on the 1.2 billion crowns that the ICT was to be directed towards and directed through the Ministry of Education. It is also necessary to thank not only the Ministry of Education, as well as the regions that help provide computer equipment, so that all children can participate in online education, but also the various foundations and nonprofits that work in this area, companies help equip schools with computers, and it is a great and great help, believe it. They really deserve to be thanked for that. And here I would also like to thank the Ministry of Education, the Minister, for being able to organise it, and thank you for that. But it's not just ICT equipment, it's child management, it's support, and it's working with them. This requires high qualifications, knowledge and skills. The effects of the coronavirus crisis are intensifying this need. Teachers need the support of society. The whole company. Let us not take it away from them by teaching without teaching qualifications. For the kids, for our students, young people, we want what's best, and definitely everyone. People with knowledge of practice certainly have an advantage, but with knowledge of children, young people and pedagogical knowledge of how to work with children, i.e. with the condition of pedagogical education, are certainly important. I will repeat once again: let us consider whether it would be a good idea to return this bill to the first reading and to the discussion of the school committee, to really be excellent, as schoolchildren do, as teachers deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u17	Thank you. Minister of Health Jan Blatný apologizes from 16 to 18 o'clock on account of urgent work issues. Mr Antonín Staněk will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the context of the debate that has so far been held here, in addition to the proposal tabled by Mr Mihola, I would put forward a motion to reject the law. If that's enough? Third reading, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u19	Yes. I was just about to warn you that this is only possible after the third reading, but it will be recorded and we will deal with it at the third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u20	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u21	Mrs Kateřina Valachová in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I will not repeat what has been said again. I will Gajdůšková do Staněk Alena to Antonín sure that, in a detailed debate, I will be applied to the amendments by reference, as we are used to, to a number. So let me just point out that, as a group of Members, we are therefore to promote the adaptation of the teacher's teacher, some specialization activities in the field of school prevention methodology, in the field of school speech, social educator and guidance counselor. In the same way, we have an ambition to add these things to the amendment to the Education Worker Act, so that we do not waste the opportunity that, from my point of view, is multiplied by the more as a result of the impact of COVID-19 on our education system in the three quarters of the year that has taken place, but we will also have the ambition for this amendment to the Education Worker Act to abandon the provision that therefore makes us no longer respect the qualifications of teachers and teachers. So much justification in the general debate, and then colleagues and I will apply to this in the context of a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u23	I thank the Member, who was the last to be enrolled in the general debate. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? I am not reporting, I am ending the general debate. Interest in the final words after the general debate? The rapporteur, Mr Bartoň, has it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u24	Thank you for ending the general debate. I will just sum up that many arguments have been raised in the general debate. Some opinions were read by deans of teaching faculties, one even twice. There have also been proposals in the debate from Mr Staněk and Mrs GajdůGajdůšková to return it to first reading, which, Mr President, I do not know if it is voteable. In any event, Mr Mihola's proposal, which, I think, is voteable right after the general debate, was also made, and this was to return the draft law to the committee for discussion. And then Mr Staněk's motion to reject the law at third reading was also made.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u25	Yes, it is as you say, Mr rapporteur. Vote after a general debate pursuant to Section 93 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 we can only return the bill to the guarantee committee for renegotiation. And not only can we, but we also have to. I have called in Members and Members to vote. [[Gong.]] In line with the agreements, we'll wait a little while for everyone to have a chance to come. [[Members are coming to the ballroom.]] There's a checkout request. I checked them all out. Please log in again with your I.D.V. cards. Now we are also waiting for this, not only on the basis of an agreement, but also for a sufficient number of Members to be able to vote at all. At this point, we are ready for the vote. We will vote on the return of the bill to the guarantee committee for renegotiation. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the voting order number 157, 71 Members entered, for 11, against 53. The motion was not accepted. I am opening up a detailed debate. Mr Lukáš Bartoň is the first to be included in the detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u26	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for my amendments, which I long ago justified in the general debate. However, this is a House document 7069, where I have also corrected some legislative technical issues compared to the previous version. This House document concerns the salaries of teaching staff. It introduces a tariff table into the law on pedagogical workers and builds on the average wage. The aim is that, in the future, from the time this amendment is due, the salaries of pedagogical workers should be automatically increased as the average wage in the Czech Republic rises and, once again, the salary increases have not been forgotten. Another is House document 5358, which concerns the maintenance of accreditations in the framework of further education of teaching staff. Another document is House document 7097, which concerns teaching subjects in a foreign language by a native speaker. Another document is SD 5361, which we present in agreement with Senator Drahoš, and concerns the recognition of the qualifications of teaching staff who have been teaching at the school for more than ten years. Another is House document 5744 and concerns the recognition of the assumption of qualifications for students in programmes for the preparation of educators. In other words, it has already been here in the debate from some colleagues, it is a bachelor in the pedagogical field, who cannot teach until he is a magistrate. We would like him to be able to teach the exception at the moment he is studying Master's degree. At present, over a thousand such students are helping schools. And the last is the House document 6463, which I submit together with my colleague Valachová, which concerns a social educator, to include his position in the law, including the definition of qualification requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u27	Thank you. If no one objects, instead of Mr Vácha's absent Member, Mr Válek, who has applied to his amendment, would now speak. He's okay with it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I will only allow myself to sign up for Amendment 4428, which proposes amendment, to repeal amendments points 59 to 62. Everything is read in detail and in electronic form available to all Members and Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u29	Thank you. Mrs Tereza Hyťhová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u30	Hello, I would like to sign up for my two amendments. One is House document 5302, concerning class allowances, the other is House document number 4484, concerning teacher's adaptation period. I have presented both proposals in detail in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u31	Thank you. Mr Václav Klaus, another in a detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u32	Hello, I am signing up for the amendment, House document 4490, which I have advocated extensively here in the general debate. This is a very meticulous and comprehensive proposal, so it is better than the law itself tabled by the Ministry by much, so remember that when the vote is taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u33	Thank you. Mr. Marek Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u34	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Colleagues, I hereby subscribe to the amendment, which I have explained in detail in the general debate during the last discussion of this House press and which is under number 5516 in the system. Just to remind you. This is an increase in fees for class teachers and for teachers performing specialized activities, unlike those of other proposals, we are not an absolute amount here, but a percentage that would be calculated from the grade base in the grade to which the teacher is assigned. We understand from the highest grade. So a system solution even in the future so that our followers don't have to go back to this, and that, let's say, in parameters of five to seven percent, that means that even the director has a free hand in order to decide where to set the amount of class or specialization surcharges within these limits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u35	Thank you. Member Jiří Mihola. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u36	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I am signing up for the five amendments that I have presented more closely in the general debate. They're in the system under numbers 5200, 5202, 7098, 7099 and 7100. I hope I haven't forgotten any. So five amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u37	Thank you. Mrs Marcela Melková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u38	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is recorded under number 7095 in the system and the content of which, as I have already mentioned here, is merely a change in the deadline given the long legislative debate. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u39	Thank you. Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u40	I am signing up for Amendment 7111. This is Mrs Kateřina Valachová's amendment, Alena Gajdůškovášková, Antonín Staněk, and I have explained it in detail in the general debate and is also justified in detail in the system, which is sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u41	Thank you. And Mr Pavel Staněk, last enrolled in... here is Mr Pavel Staněk from the ANO movement. It's a mistake. You volunteered. In any case, I will give you the floor, because Mr Staněk is not here anyway. So you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u42	Thank you so much for being so self-involved. I would like to sign up for the amendment, which is under number 7115, which is an amendment by Antonín Staněk, Alena Gajdůškovášková and Kateřina Valachová, who was duly substantiated by Mrs Kateřina Valachová, but for the sake of completeness, I would like to say that this amendment concerns, first, that in Article I, point 26 is deleted, second, the following points are exceeded, and thirdly, in paragraph 54, paragraph 7, the last sentence of paragraph 9a (2) to (4) is deleted. This is the launch of a part of the bill which contradicts the approved strategic material of the government for the education system and the current government steps since 2013 in the area of strengthening the professional support of teachers and teachers as well as their preparation at teaching faculties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-15-ps2017-072-05-002-016.u43	Thank you. And I have no further application for a detailed debate, and I am ending the detailed debate. There is no interest in the final words, and I think there is no proposal that we should now vote on, and the rapporteur also confirms that. Thank you, then, to him, thank you to the Minister, and I am done discussing this point. Now we're going to look at point number
