ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-004-190.u1	190. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratify the amendment of Annexes I and Annex II to the International Convention against Doping in Sport /German Press 459/ - first reading Instead of the Minister for Education, Youth and Sports, Minister Brabec is responsible for the Prime Minister's submission of this proposal again. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-004-190.u2	Well, thanks again for the word. Mr President, dear colleagues, my colleagues, I have this today from whales through aviation to doping, and so allow me to briefly justify the amendments to Appendix I and Appendix II to the International Convention against Doping in Sport, which are presented to Parliament to agree to ratification. The International Convention against Doping in Sport, hereinafter referred to as the Convention, adopted at the 33rd session of the General Conference of UNESCO in Paris in 2005, is a multilateral convention which entered into force for the Czech Republic in 2007. The purpose of this Convention is to take into account new circumstances in the fight against doping, to strengthen the activities of national anti-doping organisations and to establish a global contractual framework for the joint fight against doping by governmental and non-governmental organisations. Annex I: List of prohibited substances and methods and Annex II: International Standard for therapeutic derogations are integral parts of the Convention. In the context of the development of doping substances and methods in the field of sport, Annex I is updated annually. For 2019, most changes are based on the specification of the names of the groups and substances that have been included in Annex I since 2018. For example, other changes specify the use of prohibited substances through nutritional supplements. The amendment to Annex II for 2019 further specifies for athletes and doctors the use of some of the least serious doping substances for medical purposes. The Convention belongs to the category of contracts whose acceptance or acceptance of their amendments is subject to the approval of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and the ratification of the President of the Republic. As has already been said, Annexes I and Annex II are an integral part of this Convention and the adoption of their amendments requires the same constitutional procedure to be followed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-004-190.u3	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur for the first reading is Mr Jiří Mihola. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-004-190.u4	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Minister Brabec actually sums everything up here. I would just like to point out even more that this is, above all, the update of the annexes. Every year, therefore, those annexes respond to the development of new substances and methods used in doping in sport by listing them, while also removing certain substances and methods from the list if their inclusion in the list no longer meets the criteria set by the World Anti-Doping Agency. And, as was more widely said, in Annex II - there they simplify for athletes and doctors the use of some of the least serious doping substances for medical purposes. I recommend the adoption of this treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-004-190.u5	Thank you and I am opening a general debate. Mr Milan Hnilička is entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-004-190.u6	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I'm just saying a few words about this international convention. The International Convention against Doping in Sport belongs to the category of agreements whose acceptance or acceptance of their amendments is subject to the approval of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and ratification by the President of the Czech Republic. The Annexes to this Convention form an integral part of it and the adoption of their amendments requires the same constitutional procedure to be followed. In connection with the development of doping substances and methods used in doping in sport, the Annexes to the Convention are amended annually, as has been said here, and therefore must be approved annually in the legislative process and published in the Collection of International Treaties. [[11.20 hours]] In view of the length of the legislative procedure for approving the amendment, The Convention cannot be published in the Collection of International Treaties at the date of their validity, i.e. from the first January of the following year. The situation is even such that the Annexes currently under discussion are issued for 2019, so we approve them at a time when they are no longer valid, as new Annexes for 2020 are already issued. For this reason, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall send in accordance with Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 An annual notification to the UNESCO Secretariat on the impossibility of ending the national approval process for amendments to the Annexes by the Czech Republic before their entry into force. Personally, I consider this situation to be very unfortunate and for this reason I intend to initiate negotiations with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whose aim should be to find such a solution in order for the Czech Republic to fulfil its obligations in the field of sport towards UNESCO in a standard manner, as the other signatory states of this Convention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-004-190.u7	Thank you. This was the only application for a general debate. I don't see any more, I'm done with the debate. Interest in final words - the Minister does not, nor does the rapporteur. We will therefore deal with the commandments of the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see another suggestion. So we are voting on the commandment to the foreign committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 315 - 137 Members registered, for 116, against no one. We have ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Foreign Committee. I'm done with the first reading. There's a point next.
