ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-001-389.u1	389. Proposal for a law on compensation for persons providing paid health services taking into account the effects of the COVID-19 epidemic in 2020 /German press 868/2/ - returned by the Senate House print 868/2 returned to the Senate. The Senate returned the bill with an amendment, and his resolution was delivered as Parliamentary press 868/3. Information on the amendment has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Tomáš Golán among us and I ask that the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch comment on the Senate resolution and the amendment tabled. All present, please, for the fifth time, for peace in the hall. Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-001-389.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after a short period of time, we are returning to the proposal to lay down a legal framework for compensation for the costs incurred by health service providers in the context of the ongoing epidemic of COVID-19 disease. To begin with, I will just remind you that the proposal imposes an obligation on health insurance companies to compensate for these costs and empowers the Ministry of Health to issue a decree setting out how to calculate these compensations in the event that the relevant providers of health and social services do not agree otherwise with health insurance companies. As part of the approval of the proposal in the Chamber of Deputies, the material was supplemented by the waiver of social insurance premiums for providers of pharmaceutical care who have up to 15 employees, which became the subject of the Senate bill. The Senate decided to remove the modification concerned from the proposal prepared by the Ministry of Health and in an extended form, where the exemption would simply apply to pharmacies not by 15, but by 25 employees, it would put it in the proposal of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. For me, I can agree with this because I really think it is appropriate to address this in the relevant press, which we will be discussing shortly, where it really belongs. In this respect, I think that the proposal referred to the Senate should be approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill tabled, I would like to repeat that, it is highly necessary for the Czech health sector. In the case of a segment of health service providers, for which no annual health service bill is normally made, since they do not have advance payments, the situation is problematic at this time, as they are experiencing a decline in production and manifesting itself practically immediately. These are mainly providers of health transport services and providers of spa rehabilitation care. These segments are faced with serious economic problems and are therefore expected to be paid back-up payments to the providers concerned immediately after approval of the draft law, and consequently the relevant compensatory decree, which, inter alia, is already in the final phase of the inter-ministerial comment procedure, is dealt with in very detailed detail and the comments are incorporated in such a way that the decree can be issued with an effective date starting from 1. 7. 2020 as announced and promised. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the bill as it was passed or approved by the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-001-389.u3	Thank you. Mr. Běhounek cancels his apology. He's already made it, and he's present, as he came to tell me. Now, I will ask the plaintiffs for the Senate resolution and for the submitted - sorry - for Senator Tomáš Goláň to take the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-001-389.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has said everything here. The Senate tried to make the process legally clean, which means that the standard relating to pharmacies was transferred on the basis of my amendment to the law submitted by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. And since the appellant has said that he supports this version, I ask that you also support it and vote in favour of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-001-389.u5	Well, thank you, Mr. Senator, for a very short opening word. I ask whether she still wants to comment on Mrs Věra Adámková's proposal as rapporteur for the Health Committee. He's not interested in the show. In that case, I am opening the debate and Mr Kaňkovský is the first to report. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-001-389.u6	Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, dear colleagues, colleagues, let me introduce you to the opinion of the KDU-ČSL Parliamentary Club on the Senate's return to the Parliamentary Press 868. You probably remember a rather tense discussion just about the waiver of social security premiums for pharmacists, basically for pharmacies operators who will have a small number of employees. We're actually quoting the maximum number of employees here. I actually designed four versions here, first 50, which didn't work out, then 25, 15 and 10. Eventually, the compromise option went to a maximum of 15 employees. So it actually went in this bill of law towards the Senate. It must also be said that, in the context of the discussion of the law on compensation to persons providing paid health services, it was basically a little extra, because at that time we had no choice, when the original law was discussed, the House press 875, did not take place on this subject. The government did not deal with this, and it was basically assumed that pharmacies would be compensated for within the precisely covered health services. Unfortunately, the original draft compensation decree offset the second possibility of compensateing the pharmacist for their lost income, only very little within the so-called signal code, the negotiations are still ongoing. But to help the smallest pharmacies, it's really the best way to project it into those social security contributions, like other small companies. I'm glad the Senators took it up and tried to get the most 25 employees back in the game. Unfortunately, from a legislative point of view, there was a bit of stew, because we are now actually in two laws. And that is why today, together with the pirát, we have tried to propose that we first vote on the bill in question, which concerns it, and that is the remission of social security, where the Senate is proposed in a different way, the 25, maximum of 25 employees. By turning it around, we are now facing a rather complex situation and a process. Therefore, for precautionary reasons, KDU-ČSL will not support the Senate version of this bill, i.e. the current press 868, because we want to help these small pharmacies in some form. And really, there's a risk that if the Senate version of the press didn't go through 875, then we're actually gonna blow off the pharmacists, those little pharmacies operators. And I think it's wrong. So for the KDU-ČSL club in this press, we will support the House version and then we will support the Senate version in this print 875, i.e. a maximum of 25 employees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-001-389.u7	Thank you. I am asking if anyone else is still reporting for the debate on this point. I don't see anyone. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. [[There's a gong.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. [[There's a gong.]] I summon colleagues from the lobby. I have nothing to read for apologizing for using my free time. [[Members from the lobby are coming and coming to the Chamber.]] But I'm sure I'll give everyone room to take part in the vote. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. [[There's a gong.]] I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill on compensation for persons providing paid health services taking into account the effects of the COVID-19 epidemic in 2020, according to the Parliament's Press 868/2, as approved by the Senate, according to the House's Press 868/3. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 214. It's registered 188, for 134, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. I thank you and end the discussion of this press. [[14.40 hours]] Opening point number
