ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-014-009.u1	9. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of European Union tax regulations and the prevention of double taxation / House print 572/ - second reading Under the authority of the government, the press of the law will once again state Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-014-009.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce to you the bill which amends certain laws in connection with the implementation of the European Union's tax regulations and the prevention of double taxation. The draft law contains amendments to tax laws in connection with the implementation of the European Union's rules and the prevention of double taxation, which were originally to take place with effect from 1 January 2020, with the exception of certain provisions which take effect during 2020 or 2022. However, due to delays in the legislative process, the effectiveness of the proposal will need to be adjusted. The inclusion of these amendments in one legislation increases clarity for tax entities because they are not implemented by a number of separate laws, but are contained in a proposal for a single legislation. The amendment to the Income Tax Act brings the harmonisation of the terminology used concerning international treaties and the addition of transposition of the directive against tax avoidance practices, so-called. Directive ATAD. In the Value Added Tax Act, this is a mandatory implementation of Union law and related legislative technical regulations. This implementation will improve the existing system of value added tax in the field of intra-Community supply of goods by introducing sub-measures, by introducing additional conditions for exemption from the supply of goods to another State, which will lead to greater legal certainty for tax entities as well as to increasing the quality and reliability of data in the system of exchange of information between Member States, which is of key importance in the fight against tax fraud; harmonization of rules on the application of value added tax for cross-border supply of goods in a single transport chain; and finally harmonisation of rules and standardization of procedures for cross-border supply of goods under a warehouse regime for a well-known customer. It is also an adjustment of the special scheme for travel services and exemption from tax on exports of goods following recent judgments of the EU Court of Justice. The Law on excise duties implements EU law, which newly includes the Italian municipality of Campione d ©Italia and the Italian waters of Lake Lugano into the customs territory of the European Union and the territory of the European Union. This Directive is also formally reflected in the Value Added Tax Act without material impact. The amendment to the Act on International Cooperation in Tax Administration introduces a new circle of automatically exchanged information according to the so-called Directive DAC 6, which is an amendment to the Directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. The proposal introduces an exchange of so-called The notified cross-border arrangements, such as recommendations, guidelines, opinions and similar documents, which have cross-border impact and fulfil the legal characteristics suggesting that tax avoidance could occur. The proposal constitutes a pure transposition which in no way goes beyond the requirements of the directive. The directive, for example. allows to collect even purely national arrangements beyond minimum requirements, but the Ministry of Finance has decided not to use this and other expansion possibilities. The amendment to the Law on Special Procedures of the Courts then represents only a technical amendment following the transposition of the directive on mechanisms for the resolution of tax disputes in the EU. The proposal was drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice. I would therefore like to conclude by stressing that the draft law transposes a total of three directives for which the transposition period expired on 31 December 2019. In particular, in the case of VAT, failure to comply with the transposition period brings a period of legal uncertainty for tax entities involved in cross-border transactions as well as for tax administrators, of course. This is particularly problematic given that value added tax is highly harmonised and, in the case of cross-border transactions, national arrangements need to be applied to each other, which, in view of the past transposition period, does not comply with domestic legislation. On the contrary, if the direct effect of the non-transmitted directive were to be used, in some cases there could be mistaxation for certain transactions. Moreover, the European Commission took the first steps in the so-called Infringement, however, can be expected that no sanctions against the Czech Republic will be applied if there is a significant shift in the legislative process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-014-009.u3	We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 572/1 and 572/2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Jiří Dolejš, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any possible amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-014-009.u4	Yes, thank you for your word. I think that by being at second reading, and that the Minister has quite thoroughly refreshed what is going on in this press, I will not prolong it. I will just say that the Committee on Budgets has done so during the second reading. He even gave his fellow Members a chance to make amendments. At this stage, they did not make use of this in the second reading of the committee. So, on January 8th, the committee concluded all this by recommending that the House approve this without amendments. I say at this stage, because I have one small thing myself, but I will only apply to it in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-014-009.u5	I am opening a general debate to which Mr Milan Feranec has come forward. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-014-009.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister has already mentioned, since it has not been effective since 1. 1. 2020 I, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, have prepared an amendment consisting in changing the effectiveness of the Act of 1 January 2020 to the first day of the calendar month following the date of its publication. There are changes involved, I will comment briefly. Point one, the transitional provision is deleted because it has already become redundant due to the shift in efficiency. The second point actually addresses the new transitional provision. It's got to do with shifting efficiency again. And the third point actually introduces the new efficiency, as I have already said, and that is actually the day of the first month following the publication. And the reasons why to accept it or beg for support: we are indeed already late in adopting this law and it is probably not appropriate to prolong the undesirable situation where those legal entities do not have legal certainty as to when the law will take effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-014-009.u7	I will look around to see if you are interested in speaking in the general debate. So, Mr. rapporteur, Mr. MP. [[♪ You're gonna ……]] In detail? Yes, so I'll look around to see if anyone in the general debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I wonder if there is interest in the final words first. The rapporteur? Madam Secretary? There's no interest. Therefore, I am initiating a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. I've got two logged in. The rapporteur has priority rights, so if, well, yes, the rapporteur, and then Mr Milan Feranec will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-014-009.u8	Yes, that'll be quick. I'm sure I can't keep my colleague Feranc. It's basically something similar, what he's already announced, which means I don't want to say I'm breaking in, but I'm trying to rationalize that part of the final. So it's about the effectiveness of the law. While he was talking about the fact that we had already missed the originally planned efficiency of 1. 1. 2020 and he justified it because it has to be justified, because you may remember that we have adopted a standard, when we set these efficiencys from 1. 1. or from 1. 7. and since this is a month after, we logically need to justify it, because the regulation has its transitional provisions and we can use this benevolence for some time. But that puts us in different time zones. And my regulation concerns, in particular, the functioning of commodity and public companies, which is a specific problem in that they have a different tax period and, after all, it is a colossal process which, as a result of these adjustments, will have to change their ownership rather difficultly and therefore need to set it somewhat differently. I will not discuss this in detail, I will just apply to the amendment that has been inserted into the system under the number 4117. There, of course, you will find the technical details, but I hope I have made the essence clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-014-009.u9	I will therefore now ask for Mr Milan Feranc's speech. I don't have anyone else logged in. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-014-009.u10	Thank you. I am applying to the amendment, House document 4062 as inserted into the system. In detail, I refer to the written justification and the justification that I made in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-014-009.u11	I, therefore, conclude with this a detailed debate and therefore end with a second reading of this proposal. We have another point here, and it's a point.
