ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u1	292. Oral inhalation First, we have oral interpelations, which are intended for the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic or the Government of the Czech Republic as a whole. Today, with the participation of verifiers, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and then to other members of the Government. The list of Members according to the winning order has been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to point out to the intersecting Members and the members of the Government that, immediately after the end of the intervention on the apologized Prime Minister, the interspersions on the members of the Government will follow. I now give the floor to Mrs Jana Černochová, who was drawn in the first place to present an oral interview with the Prime Minister on sending soldiers into foreign operations. Mrs Richterová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear absent Prime Minister, I don't interfere often only when I'm angry. In May last year, when visiting the 601. group of special forces in Prostějov, you promised soldiers a change and simplification of the rules for sending soldiers into foreign operations in emergency or emergency situations by the government for a limited period of time with Parliament's retroactive consent. At the time, I pointed out that I had already processed the relevant amendment to the Constitution and submitted it in the last parliamentary term, together with then Minister of Defence Stropnický and other colleagues. However, your Minister Stropnický did nothing to enforce the government in which the YES movement was also in place. After your comments, I decided to re-submit this amendment, and you yourself signed it, as well as a number of your colleagues, for which I thank you. I was doing so with the hope that perhaps the amendment could finally be accepted smoothly. After more than half a year, however, despite my repeated efforts, Prime Minister, there is still nothing going on to discuss this draft. So I would like to ask you how seriously your statement was meant. Why don't you take an active stand for this change when you've made a public commitment to it? Am I to understand the YES approach as a libation of KSČM and perhaps SPDs that do not support this change? You are aware that the Czech Republic has committed itself within NATO to the ability to send troops under the so-called "Soldiers." the forces of a very rapid reaction and that without this change we are not fully able to live up to this commitment? It was also about saving our hostages in that novel, where I firmly believe that we will never need it, but unfortunately our current Constitution is not ready for that. [[Attention on time.]] Prime Minister, support this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u3	Thank you. Thank you for keeping time. And the Prime Minister is absent, so he will answer questions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days in writing. And now, please, Mrs Richterová, who will interpel in the matter: when will you submit the Children's Group Act necessary to support your parents? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u4	Thank you for the floor. I don't know about you guys, I'm gonna get started on a Facebook report called čau, guys, and there, Prime Minister, you're writing - I don't know if you're really reading it, and you know what's in there. You write: "We continued to discuss children's groups. It should be a form of nursery for children under three to four years of age. Our goal is to let moms, if they want, get back to work early. We are also counting on support for children's groups in the new programming period since 2022. And Minister Dostálová is looking for approximately CZK 1.9 billion from European funds already." I'm finishing the quote and I'm asking, "This is exactly the thing about you, Prime Minister, to resolve, because you're stuck in negotiations between two ministries. We have some kind of clear amount here, how much it costs to take care of little children. We know that this is between CZK 8 to CZK 10,000 per month, the subsidies needed to make it work are being supported by children's groups today - and you want to spend only 4.5 to 4.6 thousand through the Ministry of Finance. There's a clear clash. Well, I'm interested in how you guys are going to fill the report. How you will support families so that they can either be at home with their children, or that parents can go to work part-time as they want. Today kindergartens are certainly not available everywhere for two-year-olds, nor for three-year-olds everywhere. And it is the promotion of pre-school care that is the key to avoiding the need to disadvantage young children's mothers. You talk about it a lot. I'm interested in how you get a solution from your Ministry of Finance, in line with the MPSV. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u5	Thank you. The Prime Minister will also respond to your intervention in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in writing within 30 days. I'm not gonna say it again in other cases, because it's always the same. And now I beg Mr Michálek, who will interpel in the matter of fulfilling the Government's programming declaration. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. First of all, I want to ask the absent Prime Minister why he doesn't send one of his super-executive vice-premieres who can manage so many departments, but they can't make it to the Chamber of Deputies to respond instead to the government's interpelations when he's already on a business trip abroad. But now for my question. I asked the Prime Minister once to introduce us to the programme statement. The government has charts and charts for it. This was communicated to me by the Prime Minister in a letter dated 31 July 2019. The charts and charts were bought from Microsoft for about half a million crowns. The government buys a table and records how they meet each other's goals. Unfortunately, the government is clearly afraid to disclose this information to citizens. So I call on the Prime Minister: make public to the citizens and your constituents how you implement the programming declaration. It's in the chart that Microsoft was doing for you. Taxpayers paid for it. And I find it totally unacceptable for you to send us a letter saying that this fulfillment serves only for the internal needs of the government. Because we have laws here. All Members and Prime Minister should abide by the rules of the game. And you as a government have a duty to provide information to Members, except in cases provided for by law. And the fact that you have it in some of your charts that you have access names and passwords for an indication that doesn't threaten national security in any way, I don't think there's really any reason for it not to be published. Unless it really hurts you to find out that the results aren't as good as you ever look on Facebook.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u7	Thank you. With further intervention, Mrs Jarošová will speak on the ban on national flags on the tables of MEPs. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u8	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, there has been a heated discussion on national flags on the European Parliament's tables. The President of the European Parliament has called on interested parties to remove these so-called banners or promotional items. They say it's illegal in parliament. Do you personally or your MEPs consider the Czech flag to be a banner or an advertising item to be ANO members of the liberal faction? And do you intend to engage in this matter, for example, in a meeting of leaders of European countries, where would you point out this outrageousness in questioning national symbols? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u9	I also thank you and, next, Mr Lipavský will interpel the screening of foreign investment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u10	Dear absent Prime Minister, I am interviewing you, I want to ask you about the question of screening foreign investment, and I wonder what state the law is now, where it is, whether it lies in the Ministry of Industry and Trade or what is it. Because it is a very important law, and I thought that there was a relatively large consensus across the political spectrum. I am not saying that everyone, but at least those who were involved during discussions and debates and in the creation of this law felt this very positive. And we are waiting for some very key orders in the coming years, key tenders for energy and telecommunications. A new nuclear power plant is being built, 5G networks will be built. And these are all projects in which the Czech domestic industry will be involved in some way, and even this law can be very crucial and crucial in protecting our know-how and in protecting the key infrastructure that will fall under the law on foreign investment screening. So I have some questions I'd like to ask you for an answer. And those questions are what the current state of the law on foreign investment screening is and what the next steps will be in the coming months. Because the original declaration was that the law would be submitted to the House in the autumn of last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u11	I, too, thank you, and now, please, to Mrs Adamová, who will interpel in the matter of double standards to the members of the government. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u12	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, in the context of the overpriced contract that your Minister of Transport's department awarded to the company without proper competition, you have stated that information about the progress and interconnection of some people is disturbing, even totally unacceptable, and that the police should investigate it. You intend to file a criminal report on the conduct for which the Minister of Government you selected is responsible. What's more, you don't like the fact that the first deputy and other persons associated with the case refuse to draw personal responsibility and resign. In light of your own statement, "I will never withdraw," all such statements are not only hypocritical, but they sound ridiculous. But, of course, it is quite all right to dismiss the Minister for such serious misconduct. But your double standard is remarkable. Several persons are being prosecuted in connection with public contracts awarded by the state agency CzechTourism. The reason is suspicion of corruption and bribery in the order of millions. The police are also being investigated by the responsible secretary, Mrs. Klára Dostálová, on your part. So in one case, you immediately called off your minister, you file a criminal complaint yourself, and in the other, where the case is already in a much more advanced phase, and the police deal with it, you stood up for your minister. This year, the Czech Republic has once again offended in the international ranking of perceived corruption. They say you don't understand a six-seat drop on the 44th, because you don't remember any corruption scandal of the government in your line of work. Not only do I, but I am sure the citizens are very interested in what key, Prime Minister, you decide which Minister you will call off when you award public contracts and which one you will not. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u13	Thank you for keeping time. That was the last interpellation to the absent Prime Minister. I shall repeat, then, that the Prime Minister will reply to all these interventions in writing within 30 days, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And I warn the Chamber of Deputies that this has exhausted all applications to interpel the Prime Minister and will be followed by oral interpelations to other members of the government. I therefore now call on Mr Jakub Janda to give an interview to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, on the issue of the electronicisation of the Customs Administration. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u14	Thank you for the floor. Madam Minister, 28 November 2019, together with a group of Members, I submitted a proposal for an amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, the subject of which is to reduce the limit of the so-called VAT refund to foreign tourists in the Czech Republic. On this proposal, your Ministry has made several comments on the administrative complexity of the entire agenda, especially because it is not electronized. I confess that I do not understand this complaint, as I was already in 2018 when I dealt with this issue in the context of seminars and various meetings with representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Customs Administration, it was clear that this electronization, accompanied by the functionality of the VAT Refund system and customs kiosks, is about to be implemented by May last year. However, you are operating in the comments on October 2019, even in pilot operations, with the emphasis that only one tariff kiosk currently works at Prague Ruzyně airport. But, Madam Secretary, there are not many places in the Czech Republic where Schengen space can be left, or there are three of them. So that the electronization is only partial is the problem of the Ministry of Finance and not mine. So I'm asking you why after a year of delay, the VAT Refund electronics system is not operational, when you plan to complete it and when you install the remaining two tariff kiosks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u15	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Member, allow me to share the following facts with you on your interview. The explanatory memorandum to the draft amendment to the VAT Act, which proposes a reduction in the VAT refund limit from two thousand to one thousand, mentions the fact that the Customs Administration is launching the concept of tax and customs kiosk in pilot operation from 1 July 2019. This was the plan. Customs authorities still in force at the beginning of 2019, which was based on a specification agreed with the VAT refund service providers of non-EU travelers. However, at the beginning of March 2019 these specifications had to be revised. Therefore, the system of electronic confirmation of sales documents for goods exported by passengers from non-EU countries was put into pilot operation on 1 October 2019 with two kiosks and four workplaces at Terminal 1 of Václav Havel Airport in Prague. By the end of February 2020, four more kiosks will be installed at the Prague Airport at Terminal 1 and two other workplaces, this time at Terminal 2. Within this pilot operation, this system is able to carry out electronically only domestic sales documents, VAT Refund documents, which are accompanied by electronic data produced by providers of services related to the refund of VAT to passengers. Currently, VAT Refund documents are electronically confirmed only in the volume of the circus 20 per cent of the daily total number of all completed documents. Pilot operations are also planned for the whole year 2020, when the other EU Member States will gradually connect to the electronic validation process in the Czech Republic. So it is not only a matter of the Czech Republic, but it is cooperation with other Member States, so we are dependent on the cooperation. That's why the volume of 20 percent isn't that we're just lying in the Directorate-General for Customs with our hands down. I invite you, we'll show you in detail. I invite you both to the General Directorate and I invite you to Václav Havel Airport, where we will show you. [[14.50 hours]] I would like to say that during the last decade of the circus there has been a dramatic increase in documents confirmed at the output in the Czech Republic. The average annual increase in confirmed documents has been 19 % since 2009, with values - from 2009 to 232 555 confirmed documents, when they were already nearly five times higher than 1 016 477 confirmed documents in 2018. In the year-on-year period, the increase at the Prague-Ruzyně Customs Office compared to 2018 and 2019: 1 016 477 confirmed documents for 2018 and 1 054 355 confirmed documents for 2019.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u17	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u18	I want to thank you for your answer. I'm glad you invited me. I'm very happy to accept the invitation. My point, or actually an amendment to the law, is included in this meeting, but before it gets to it, it's gonna take a while. So I believe that nothing will prevent this operation from starting during 2020, and that nothing will prevent this amendment from being accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u19	Thank you. Madam Secretary wants - he probably doesn't want to respond to an additional question. So we will move forward, and I am asking Mr Kohoutek, who will interpel Mr Havlíček, who is excused, about the costs of the electrical distribution network. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear absent minister, please ask for information on how much the state and consumers cost to build and maintain the electricity distribution network. According to some sources, it has cost CZK 1,800 billion in the last 13 years. Please also ask for information about who and how many and what resources the power distribution network uses to maintain. I also ask you to quantify the cost of the backbone transmission system of electricity. Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u21	Thank you. The Minister will respond to your intervention in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days in writing. And I beg Mr Martínek, who will interpel Mr Brabec on the permit of mining in Tlustka. Mrs Langšádlová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u22	Minister, I am interrogating you on the refusal of an appeal against the granting of an exemption from specially protected species in the category of critically endangered, strongly threatened and threatened. The exemption was granted in connection with the mining activity in the Luhov mining area, led by the number of the MZP/2019/540/790. The exemption from the protection of specially protected species was granted for reasons exceeding the public interest in relation to strategic transport structures for which the extracted shale is needed. There is currently no strategic transport construction in the Liberec Region to defend the public interest beyond the necessary protection of endangered species. The railway will start the preparatory phase of construction first in 2023, bypasses of Mimoňa, Česká Lípa, Nové Boru and Turnov are still only on paper for decades. Until changes are introduced into the zoning plans and land purchase takes place, there is no point in starting mining. Minister, I ask you, when mining activity in the mining area is defended by public interest, shouldn't the beginning of mining be linked to the start of construction of buildings ensuring this exceeding public interest? Shouldn't the stone be used solely for this purpose? Each year, 840 thousand tons of high-quality basalt will be mined in the quarry, which will probably be sold outside the region, outside the Czech Republic. Let's make a circle of 60 kilometers from Fat, compare with the construction of strategic structures in our country to the extent of the need 840 thousand tons of aggregate per year, and see where the stone will be transported. A substantial part of the hill will be removed, production of flue gases during the transport of stone, vibrations, increased dustiness and noise. Is the miner really supposed to destroy the landscape and sell the stone for several years before it is needed in the Liberec Region for these strategic buildings? In three years, approximately 2.5 million tons of high-quality basalt, 2.5 million tons of aggregates will be extracted, which will not end up in strategic constructions in the region, only if the construction starts as planned. Is it really the raw material strategy of the Czech Republic to exploit its own resources for sale abroad, and then to buy the raw materials back expensively? [[Time warning]] [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Shouldn't this postpone the permit at least until the start of strategic buildings in the Czech Republic?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u23	Please finish. [[Messenger. - Thank you.]] Thank you. And I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've got it pretty trash, too, so I'm gonna try to pick the important things out of it. First of all, I want to emphasise that the Ministry, as you well know, does not actually approve of mining. At this point, the Ministry was expressing itself on the exceptions, the process has been going on for quite a long time. In fact, we have also returned several times the decision of the Regional Authority, which issued exemptions from the law, from the basic protection conditions of 21 specially protected species. This decision was not issued without technical documentation and it was for example a biological evaluation of intentions, biological surveys of Fat and surroundings and others. In fact, when we annulled the decision in May 2019 as the Ministry of the Environment and returned the matter to a new discussion and subsequently on 26 July the Regional Authority of the Liberec Region confirmed the exemption from the basic protection conditions and the exception was supplemented - this is important - by restrictive conditions and its validity was limited by the completion of after-mining bailouts and the Ministry subsequently assessed the public interest, its supremacy and the fulfilment of other legal conditions for granting the exemption and subsequently confirmed the decision of the Regional Authority, rejected the appeal and confirmed the exemption. So the Ministry did not allow mining, which, of course, is done by the Mining Authority, but we confirmed the decision of the relevant regional authority. At present, of course, the entire mining sector, but we as the Ministry of the Environment are facing pressure from the processing sector, which argues that there is currently a significant shortage of extracted aggregates, a building block for transport constructions, and that there are insufficient available supplies in quarrys with permission for mining activities. Here I would like to point out that, firstly, we have no indication of the existence of major exports of building blocks to neighbouring countries or any attempt to increase such exports in any way, and we are also not aware of any massive construction on the German or Polish side of the border requiring the purchase of aggregates from Fatce. And what's important, and it's really what you're asking, is that, of course, the mining doesn't start immediately. This means, if it starts, first of all, the decision of the District Mining Authority will allow it to do so, of course, with certain appeal and retardation mechanisms. The decision on the exemption itself took place for a year and a half. For this reason too, it is possible that your generally beneficial buildings, such as railways, bypasses and others, will be practically synchronous with mining on Fat. And in any case, it is important to try not to delay these constructions. That means, I mean, that politics just doesn't matter. That's always some kind of administrative procedure. As you know, it's reviewable. The minister - and I have said here several times in other matters, see Ostroh and other things - just never enters it and it is really about assessing the public interest, those particular people who then have to defend it in court or in an appeal body. So the public-interest assessment is a common process that just happens there. In this case, this decision has taken place. In other cases and in other areas, because of course those construction materials are raw materials which are not usually carried on any longer track, then of course it is no longer effective, and that was the only reason, because the thick basalt is of course a super-quality rail gravel and as such it is necessary to use it in terms of its economical use from the point of view of the Mining Act. So, yes, we can look at it simply by looking at it, that for the Ministry of the Environment and for me personally, I say, it is always important to naturally protect nature, but that is why there is precisely the measurement of public interests, so that in this particular case the person who decides and signs under it, and I emphasise again in this case it is not a permit for mining, but only a confirmation of the decision of the Regional Authority of the Liberec Region in the light of the exception it has confirmed. So the Ministry only agreed with the view of the Liberec Region in terms of granting an exemption... [[Time, Minister.]] And thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u25	Thank you. The Member shall ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u26	Thank you for your answer. I agree, I respect the public interest, but it was the question that was directed, if the decision to grant the exemption, which was justified primarily by the public interest, to wait until the buildings were at least somewhere on paper. Because so far no significant constructions are de facto designed in the territorial plan, so if it was not premature and if the decision is not actually made, even by rejecting the appeal, if the Ministry is not in breach of Article 7 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u27	Thank you. The Minister will respond to an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u28	So we believe he doesn't. I don't think I'm going to surprise you with the answer, because if we were to speculate about something like that at all, of course, we couldn't do anything like that. But I say again, it's always a decision that's quite appropriate to the situation that the clerk is doing at the time. And he realizes that this can be reviewed and that he simply has to defend it in some proceedings in the context of a possible appeal, which, of course, can also happen in this case. Of course, this can also happen against the decision of the follow-up, i.e. the determination decision, the permission of the mining, which I assume will happen calmly, because the Fats case, of course, has been going on for maybe ten years. So we assume it won't end here. And we're also assuming that maybe for the next few years, the process will simply continue to allow for its own extraction with all the right deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u29	Thank you, and now Mrs Langšádlová will intersect Minister Vojtěch on the supply of medicines. Please. Mr. Čižinský will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I appeal to you as the Minister responsible for what kind of medicine and how much the Administration of State Material Reserves has in its supplies. According to information from open sources, the administration of state material reserves from drugs has only one drug in supply, namely Tamiflu antiviral. For example, Poland has up to a thousand types of medicine in its strategic reserves, so that in each drug group it has an adequate volume of at least one drug. I believe that our state's strategic drug reserves should be worked out to ensure that we are able to secure the demands for medicines for our citizens in crisis situations. Moreover, these sources could also help in situations where drug supplies to pharmacies are failing, and hospitals are also dealing with drug outages. According to open sources, at this time, there are up to 80 types of medicines that are unavailable. So, Minister, I would like to ask you once again if you could answer me the question of whether you have prepared a crisis plan to adjust supplies, strategic supplies of drugs in the Administration of State Material Reserves, and whether you are considering that they could be used, for example, in cases of failure, as we almost unfortunately witnessed every day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u31	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer to this interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u32	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madame Members, Madame Members, thank you for this question, which is undoubtedly very interesting. The truth is that at present, and you are without a doubt right, only antivirals intended for pandemics and the like are currently stored in the warehouse of the Administration of State Material Reserves. The truth is that in the past, if there were any larger supplies, it was also a little bit criticised, because maybe we've noticed it, or you've noticed it in the media. In the past, large amounts of antivirals were purchased in the framework of measures taken in relation to influenza pandemics, more than a million doses, which turned out to be inefficient, actually could not be used because it was not necessary and had to be burned. It cost about 400 million crowns. So that was my predecessor's decision then. So I'm just proving that, in principle, there is always a need to be very cautious in this regard and to have it carefully thought out, because it is one thing to actually have available medications, some essential medicines actually, which are irreplaceable and so on, and the other thing is to perceive the risk of some financial loss, the management of public funds. If the drugs aren't used, then they're simply destroyed, because of course, they're expirating at some point. So these benefits and risks must certainly be perceived in the decision-making process. By coincidence, however, we are currently actually dealing with the issue of strategic supply of medicines. Coincidentally, colleagues from the Ministry were also visiting Poland, where they perceived some suggestions. And next week there will be a meeting of representatives of the Ministry of Health, the State Institute for Drug Control and the Administration of State Material Reserves on this topic. So this interpelation of yours is actually very convenient at this time. So we're dealing with it. There's a meeting next week and we'll look for different options. It is probably not about the Czech Republic having all the medicines, all the portfolio of medicines, because what you were talking about is 80 non-available medicines. It is also important to remember that some medicines are replaceable, they are not really essential. Sometimes it's really just a question of, you know, faults in distribution. Among other things, we have a law in the House on medicines to deal with this. So these questions of inaccessibility aren't always about the fact that only the drugs aren't at all. And we will certainly deal with that. Of course, some investments must be considered there. Consider it in order to just set up some reverse distribution mechanism. That is, if the drugs are bought and not actually used, so that they can be redistributed to providers and so on. So it's a subject, we don't have a specific plan right now, but we see it. We are in contact with the State Administration of Material Reserves and we are looking at foreign examples. In some countries, it is the responsibility of entities such as health care establishments to have certain defined stocks of medicines, but indeed essential ones. In the Czech Republic, for your information, we do not only have antivirotics within the Department of State Material Reserves, but also works a supply of special medicines, which are antidotes, anti-sera, anti-infectives, within the Toxicology Information Centre in the General Faculty Hospital in Prague, where the Ministry actually finances the purchase and renewal of these medicines, which are used in really exceptional cases, such as snake bites and so on. Thus, within the Czech Republic, these antidotes are distributed throughout the Czech Republic and we also hold these supplies within the General Faculty Hospital in Prague. So that's just for the record. So thank you for the question, I'm sure I'm able to give you some more detailed information over time based on the results of the negotiations that we're going to be conducting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u33	Thank you. The honourable Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u34	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I wanted to thank you for addressing this issue, because I think it is very important. The management of the state's material reserves has a very wide range of supplies, and it should certainly include drugs. I understand they're expensive. I understand that they have a short expiration and that it is certainly very difficult to manage and change them right now, and I understand that they can only be the basic medicines that actually help in life-threatening situations. Nevertheless, I think that it is in terms of population safety, in terms of driving in some critical situations, that drugs simply belong in the Administration of State Material Reserves. And I really want to thank you guys for doing this, and ask you if you can tell me when they're actually gonna be in the State Material Reserve Administration. And I would also like very much to ask that, in particular, those chronic patients and those who are really ill in the long run, to ensure that the drugs are provided normally, so as not to cause these outages. I believe that the new system will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u35	Thank you. The Minister will respond to an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u36	Thank you. I'm here to make a commitment that I'm sure I'll be happy to give information on the basis of a meeting that will happen just as it happens next week among the individual subjects responsible, so I'm sure I'm able to give you additional information. I think that in the order of months we should already have an idea of how to proceed. Otherwise, with regard to the availability of drugs as such, there are really different reasons, and I am convinced that the amendment to the Act on Medicines, which is now in the House, has been successfully read first, addresses a number of these inaccessibilitys, especially concerning the need for medicines, and it is not that there is some failure in production, but unfortunately there are some distributors who instead of delivering drugs to Czech patients in Czech pharmacies, so they will take them and take them to Germany, Denmark, and they will get the difference in the price between our lower price and the price in other countries. And that's the problem that just exists here. There are several billion crowns per year, it is a very interesting business, but unfortunately the drugs are not available to Czech patients. Nor does it yet exist, and this is actually a change in the law, the obligation of manufacturers to ensure that medicines are available to Czech patients. So, for the first time in history, we give the Czech legal system an obligation to manufacturers under financial sanctions that they will provide medicines in the Czech Republic within a maximum of two days to any pharmacy where the patient comes in with his prescription. So it's also a novelty. And just as, and I might say that at the very end, for the first time, we're also giving a clear deadline that the drug blackout shouldn't be longer than 120 days. This is the way it is in the law, there may still be some debate about it, maybe some shortening and so on, but so far there has been no time limit in the law until the manufacturer is to restore supplies. So I believe that this will also help. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u37	Thank you. Now, I beg of Mr Čižinský, who will interpel Mr Brabec on the reclamation of Sandberk's sandstone near Cologne. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u38	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I have a request regarding the flooded sandberk sandpit near Cologne. It's a beautiful lake, and now the landowner wants to implement a plan called "sanitation and reclamation of the mining area of Kolín." Within its scope, 900 thousand cubic metres of material, including recycling, demolition and construction waste, are to be introduced into its space. A petition was made against this, which also points out the burden on the surrounding freight transport, which would carry this huge amount of material into the lake for several years. The Regional Authority of the Central Bohemia Region conducted an investigation procedure in which it decided at the end of 13 January 2020 that the plan had no significant impact on the environment and would not be assessed under the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. He decided so despite comments from the municipality of Starý Kolín, the Department of Environment and Agriculture of the Municipal Authority of Cologne and the Czech Environmental Inspection. All appointed comment points requested further assessment of the intention under Law 101/2001 Coll. I ask you, therefore, to place an appeal against this decision within the legal deadline ending on 28 January 2020. I believe that, in this case, it is quite appropriate for the so-called Great EIA to take place. Thank you and allow me to give you a copy of the decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u39	Thank you. Thank you for your time, and I ask the Minister for an answer to this interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u40	And in this gravely silence... [[It's really quiet in the hall.]] I was intrigued, it often doesn't happen during the negotiations, it often happens only at interpelations. If only we'd taken an example of this at least into our standard negotiations. But thank you for the interview, colleague, thank you for the floor. For me, it's not entirely new information, because I've been approached in different forms by a few people with this incentive, but I need to correct a little bit of what you said here. I agree that it has indeed been decided by the Regional Authority of the Central Bohemia Region that, in principle, this assessment of the impact of the intention ended in the investigation procedure and also confirms what you are saying that the Czech Environmental Inspection Authority actually states in its conclusion of 9 December 2019 that the Regional Inspectorate Prague has comments on the submitted notification of the intention, namely the Department of Nature Protection, and the inspection requires further assessment of the environmental impact of the project under Law 100/2001 Coll. and taking into account these comments. But what I need to correct is that the Czech Environmental Inspection Authority does not have the opportunity to appeal against such a decision, because the conclusion of the investigation procedure was issued by the Regional Authority and the Ministry will probably, in this case in the event of an appeal, act as an appeal body, so it is a little difficult for me to comment on it. And I'm sure I won't tell you if or how we're gonna take that appeal, don't ask me to do that, 'cause then we'll decide the appeal. But who can appeal? The public concerned may appeal, such as civil associations or the municipality concerned. But because it's in §3 letters. (i) that is precisely what is said in point 2 under Act 100/2001 Coll., the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, and there is precisely who is the public concerned, which in this case may file the appeal. So it can't be Czech environmental inspection, I repeat, it could be a community, it could be the public concerned. It's a little weird here that during the investigation procedure there was a month's notice period, but no one in the public has actually said anything. And here again, I must point out that, instead of petitioning, the only effective solution is to file an appeal. But there is still a deadline, and since the decision was issued according to my information on Friday, January 17, 2020, that period of appeal is approximately until mid-February. So it's a little bit longer and the space exists here. In the event that there are reasonable doubts as to whether the decision of the Regional Authority in question is in accordance with the law, it is possible to initiate a review of this Decision and the complaint for review would then be directed against final decisions. However, the decision of the Central Bohemia Region in question is not final to date, and therefore anyone can essentially submit a complaint for review. The question of particularly protected species occurring in the locality was dealt with by the Czech environmental inspection, this is actually also the conclusion I read during the inspection. This means that I confirm that the inspection also had an opinion that it should be a large EIA. If there is an appeal from the municipality or the public concerned, the appeal body at that time will be the Department of Public Administration, very likely the Ministry of the Environment, and it will then proceed according to the law. And at this point, I really don't want to speculate what he decides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u41	Thank you. The Member is not interested in an additional question, so please Mr Baxa, who will interpel Mr Zaorálek on the appeal of the Director of Lidice Memorial. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u42	Dear Minister, I am addressing you on the matter of forced resignation of the Director of Lidice Martina Lehmannová Memorial. Everything begins with a report by Czech Television, in which historians who are not employees of the memorial described the story of the deportation of the Jewish resident of the community, which took place on the eve of the Lidice tragedy, allegedly on the basis of the reporting of one Lidice citizen. Before I try to describe everything, I would rather read the part of Mrs Jaroslava Skleničková's letter, today the 32-year-old memorial she sent you. "Dear Minister, I am the last living human woman. I care how Lidice and the historical events around them are presented, I care about finding the truth. Despite my age, I work with a memorial. I live in Lidice, and while I'm still alive, I want to work for Lidice in the name of that historical truth. That's why I was very concerned about the report on the director of the Lehmannová Memorial. The director apparently did not stand the pressure of the Lidice organization of the Czech Union of Freedom Fighters, which brings together part of the surviving children and which is chaired by Mrs Bobošíková. [[15.20 hours]] The situation escalated last June following the broadcast of a controversial report by the Czech Television, which aroused the disapproval of some of the memorials and provoked a sharp criticism not only to the authors but also to the director who performed neutrally in the report. The cooperation of a group of folk children with the memorial ceased. An untimely report that the principal couldn't control served to discredit her person and her work. However, I cannot complain about the activities of the memorial. From my point of view, it works well, with dignity and with all responsibility. That is why I am also addressing you, Minister, to keep you informed of what I, the last surviving woman, think about it. I would therefore very much like you not to accept the resignation of the principal." So much for Mrs. Skleničková's letter. I would like to state that the subject of the dispute is not a historical story in itself, we probably cannot express ourselves and we do not want to, but I ask, Minister, why did you not stand up for your organization and its director. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u43	Thank you. Thank you for the interpelation, but I'd like to ask for a better respect for the time, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u44	Thank you. Have a good afternoon. Thank you for the interpelation, too, and I am glad to be able to respond. I agree with Mr Baxa that we really do not have a historic debate on this issue right now, and trying to clarify things as they were, neither I nor he dare, but that, I think, what matters - depends on every voice, that lady, the last survivor you mentioned here, and her letter. All I would say is that I care about all the survivors or relatives, children, and I wish we could communicate with everyone. And the problem isn't in some kind of pressure right now, because, I confess, I don't deal with that much. I am concerned with what the memorial is supposed to do, and I wish we could communicate with all those - there are not many - survivors today. And I wouldn't want to convince you. I met with Mrs Dagmar Kosová today, who is Ms Lehmannová's statutory representative. I met with her this morning and asked her to prepare a round table in Lidice for Monday, after the government, to invite - and I stress - all survivors or relatives and children. I'd like to invite a representative of the village, a memorial, and I'll be there alone, and I'd like to make it very clear what I'm saying to you here today that I wish to communicate with everyone. Because I see a crucial role in the fact that if the memorial is trying to take care of our memory, especially in relation to the events 70 years ago, then keep it while those who know about it are close to the events, so I don't think we can afford to keep them out of the way. And my opinion is that almost none of them, and we know that many of them have been involved in debates and discussions, and we know that this has started to change, that this has actually been seriously disturbed. I received letters saying that they would not participate in the discussions, even some who played a pretty crucial role in this, and I have no doubt about the importance it had, and that everyone was involved. So I hope that since Monday it will be made clear to them, and that they will participate, that I care about all of them and that this is what I am led by, and I wish that this will lead the monument in the future. We're not going to have any wars with anybody. And not with the survivors or any part of them, because I do not distinguish between them in this. And I wish we could meet at the same table, and it turns out we're all able to talk. I also asked Mrs Kosová, who is now representing the resigning Mrs Lehmannová, and I would actually like to announce a tender as quickly as possible in which we would be looking for someone to lead the memorial in this very spirit. And I am prepared to give the number and account of the fact that what I am led by is that the memorial fulfills the original function for which it was created, or for which it was built, and that, on the one hand, is the role it performs towards the public, but then I think also very important roles towards those who still bear that memory. I've said many times that if these people live there, we can't do it without them. And I wish I could put it back together, and I hope that it will work out, and even after what has happened now, if the principal and I felt different, that's why it turned out the way it did, because it seemed to me that I was more upset by the splitting. What bothered me more was that, in fact, all of a sudden, it remains that part of the survivors remain apart. And that's why I'm looking, which is why we agreed this way: I offered her to work professionally where she was, I think, doing well in the past, and now I'm looking for someone who has enough sense for those difficult situations in Lidice. 'Cause I have no doubt that this place is still in some difficult history, and I'm gonna try to find a director or director like that, someone who can connect the environment, I'm gonna try on Monday. And I believe it will work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u45	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u46	Minister, thank you for this helpful response, and I'm sure we can agree on the fundamentals of this argument that it is important that the community does not split, so that all those who belong to that community of survivors feel this way. But I consider it important to repeat once again the fact that Ms. Director Lehmannová did not find herself in that situation as an active mover or an actor. She found herself in the situation of the split by the fact that the Czech TV broadcasted a story in which two historians presented the conclusions of their historical research, and only on this basis was the initiation of a certain resistance against her, which was not primarily led by the director actively acting against some part of the survivors, but that in particular the role of the Czech Union of Fighters for Freedom and Mrs Bobošíková, which initiated a series of complaints, caused the state of the conflict and the mutual distrust. And that's why my question was that I think you should stand up for the organization. [[Time warning]] But -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u47	Thank you. I ask the Minister if he responds to an additional question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u48	Yes, I tried to follow the argument honestly, but maybe I would have seen it differently in the fact that I don't feel the initial organization, for me, priority is what happened in those Lidice, those who are there witnesses, and I would like to take care of this most, the memory of the event, and perhaps some assistance to those who remain as witnesses. So I'm sorry I don't see my first loyalty in the organization. The organization was created there because of them. And I'm actually trying to push it this way. We're not there for the organization, for the Lidice Monument. And you know that I even said the sentence that if the memorials live there today, I can't imagine the meaning of the memorial if it exists in parallel and without them. This is actually a dispute that I may have had with the principal as well. I said, I can't accept that I'm eight-- eleven of them, that's very few people, that group shrinks -- if eight of the eleven write to me that they're not participating, I won't defend the memorial, because I say, without them, the memorial is losing its meaning. As long as they live, we must be with them. And no matter how complicated it may be, they may be different, but I feel this as my duty, and that's why I didn't actually settle for maybe what monument he played a role in this thing because it felt like he was supposed to do something more. He should have done more to bridge the dispute and find that we can't lose these people. And you know that they refused to go to meetings and the like and that some of them would do a lot of talking, so they did what we wanted, a huge piece of work. [[Time warning]] Thank you, and I hope we understand each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u49	Thank you, and now please Mr Klaus, who will intersect the absent Minister Hamáček on the security situation in the Central Bohemia Region. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u50	Dear Minister, absent, Hamáček, I am always very critical when ministers do not come to interpelations that are announced, but as a regular tabloid reader, there may be some reason for it today, so I will not attack you and wish you much strength. However, my interpelation concerns the security situation in the Central Bohemia Region. Here there is mass and area robbing of houses, especially in the areas of the ring south of Prague, satellite towns of Psáry, Jesenice and so on. It often occurs in the afternoon, people are warned that the situation is somehow and that they should warn children who are returning from school, and so on. People living there mostly work in the capital city of Prague. There are efforts to create militias and certain patrols. Citizens take care of themselves, or some mayors want to deal with the situation. [[15.30 hours]] So my question is this. We are at the top of the economic cycle, we have zero unemployment, everything according to the government is absolutely pink and great. So I want to ask you if you have enough money and human resources to help protect the property and the safety of the population. I understand that this is the role of the police president, but I still want to ask if you are aware of the procedure, the measures and priorities. Because we are witnessing that, for example, the mass selection of small speed crossings on the highway goes well to the state, but I think protection of property and the safety of the population is more important. So it was my intervention that aimed at this: whether you are familiar with the situation in the Central Bohemia Region, whether this situation really leads to some sort of resolution, whether there is enough force, whether you have the forces and all that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u51	Thank you. The Minister will answer your question in writing within 30 days. And now I beg Mr Zahradník, who will also interpel the absent Minister Toman in the matter of bark sludge and drought in the Czech Republic. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, given the temperature in 2020, which is expected, it is possible that there will be another significant gradation of the crust, namely in the middle of April 2020. By the end of 2019, up to 150 million trees were estimated to be attacked, i.e. about one third of all conifers. I note that the Czech forests have the same size as the Bavarian forests, 5.6 million hectares, but the calamity of mining is only one fifth of the total of Bavarian. Invaluable is also the fact that conifers have a positive impact on the water balance in the landscape. If we look at the data from the weather station in the South Bohemian Hejnice between 2006 and 2019, we can see that there is a collision deficit of 36% over these years. Specifically, in 2006, the precipitation sum was 653 millimeters, then it decreases, 422 in 2014, up to 361 millimeters in 2019. It is definitely the result of the destruction of spruce crops by a crusty calamity in the Šumava National Park. This significant aspect of conifers should also be evaluated in the species composition of renewed shavings after calumny mining, so we must not discard spruce and order conifers seedlings in time. My question to Minister Toman is whether he intends to use the instrument that gives him Act No. 240/2000 Coll., on Crisis Management, and declare an emergency that would allow for a rapid and operational procedure both in the destruction of the infected trees and in the creation of stocks of seedlings for forestation of shavings after calamity mining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u53	Thank you. The Minister will answer your question in writing within 30 days. And now I beg Mr Bendl, who will also intersect Minister Toman on measures against drought. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u54	Good day, Mr President, colleagues. I do not like the word alarmism and I do not like alarming, but the state during this winter and the state of water in our watercourses, which is deep below the long average, leads me to have to call the alarm. And since the Czech Republic has one of the most effective measures to contain water in the countryside, and these are land modifications, I would like to ask you, Minister, if you are going to make some significant rapid implementation of land adjustments against the current plan and whether you are going to strengthen this budget that you have on it. Unfortunately, when discussing the state budget, the coalition refused the financial strengthening of the implementation of land adjustments. I think that we should get back to this and we should speed up the landscaping if possible, because this is a chance for nature and landscape, so that we take a number of measures right in the territory in favour of water retention in the countryside. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u55	Thank you. The Minister will also respond to your interpellation in writing within 30 days. And now I beg Mr Výborný, who will interpel the Minister Brabec on the matter of air pollution Cementárna Prachovice. Mrs Richterová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u56	Good afternoon. Dear Minister, for the third year now, the population living near the village of Prachovice in eastern Bohemia has been harassed by an intense to unbearable odor caused by the cement plant Prachovice operated by CEMEX CZ. I appeal to you with a request to verify how much the locality is affected by emissions from the cement plant Prachovice. Although we have Dr. Slavík's statement, Head of Integrated Pollution Prevention Department and Integrated Environmental Pollution Register at your Ministry, from 11. 11. 2019, also from the Regional Hygiene Station in Pardubice, whose repeated answers are that the air in the locality is okay. But not only me, but from the reactions we have, even the citizens there say that this is not the case, and the annoying smell is repeated regularly in the evening. This was the last time on Wednesday of this week. According to the citizens' comments, the smell of a burning tire seems to be similar to that of a burning tire, and apparently, according to the citizens who founded the civic association Herout, it spreads from a dusty cement factory. I also know about the communication of this association of affected municipalities and individuals with the Prachovice cement plant, which are, however, ineffective. The residents suspect that the smell is not only from the chimney, it is monitored by environmental inspections, but that harmful substances are released in the cement plant and outside the chimney. They perform and perform their own smell monitoring, and then transmit the results to CEMEX, but communication with the owner, who is from Mexico, is very complicated. Nor did it help to assure that a winter outage will resolve the smell situation. Although it occurred last winter, the smell returned immediately after the restart of the operation. I myself was on the spot with Senator Miluše Horská myself and we were convinced that it was definitely not a hysterical reaction of the citizens, but that the smell in the locality is really intense and life frustrating. I thank you not only for your answer, but also for your examination of the situation, the detection of the odor and the help of the citizens of this region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u57	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister to respond to this interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u58	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for the suggestion. Dear colleague, you may know that this matter has already been actively addressed since July last year, at least since July last year, when, on the initiative of you mentioned Senator Horská, we received a complaint in September 2019 by which we actually asked the ČHMÚ for information on air flow at a time when there should have been a stench harassment. Subsequently, it was decided that a more appropriate model was rather a CALMET meteorological processor as a dispersion of an inert pollutant. Now, after the expert part, something more understandable and a further solution. The problem with odorous substances, and believe that we are dealing with a whole range of stimuli from all over the Czech Republic, after all we remember here perhaps also the interpelation here at Prague's company Vafo, the manufacturer of animal feed, and it is not quite easy to focus precisely on the source and, of course, to detect the very specific conditions. But it was said that, in fact, in at least one third of the cases at the time of the episode's reporting, meteorological conditions were such that the site could have been affected by emissions, so it could really have been a high chimney of the cement plant cement plant Prachvice, if any odor-absorbing substances were created in operation, even those you were talking about. In the rest of the episodes it is virtually excluded that the source of the odor is the modular source of the cement plant Pracovice, because it was either not in operation or the weather conditions did not match this. [[15.40 hours]] The results of the modelling were transmitted to the authorising authority at the end of 2019, which is the Regional Authority of the Pardubice Region, and the Czech Inspection to attempt, in cooperation with the operator, to identify a technological operation or a situation that could cause or confirm that no such situation occurred. The Ministry was informed about the outcome of the inspections and expert recommendations of the Czech Inspection on 21 January, i.e. these days. The inspection carried out an evaluation of odorous substances on the chimney of the cement furnace by measuring samples of the flue gas. The character of the odour has been evaluated as typical for air from common combustion processes. Furthermore, data on continuous monitoring of emissions and waste dosing records have been evaluated. I would like to emphasise here that, on the one hand, no breach of operating conditions or legal requirements has been detected, as well as no clear source of odour has been found, but several possible areas have been identified where an integrated authorisation may be adapted to reduce potential odour harassment. In particular, it is more detailed supervision of the waste incineration process. And now I am approaching concrete recommendations and other steps where the Czech Inspection sent a recommendation to the authorising authority, i.e. the Regional Authority, on 15 January of this year to modify the integrated permit. The Integrated Prevention Act allows the authorising authority, in this case the Regional Authority, to review and amend the integrated authorisation following the inspection recommendation. At the same time, the inspection also identified several other operations, which could be operations such as EkoWasteEnergy in Třemošnice or NM Namont, also in Třemošnice, or even in Třemošnice. Administration of state material reserves Kostelec u Heřmanův Město, in order to measure in any way whether it really has to be from the cement plant Prachovice, or. if there could be any combination, which quite often happens, a combination of several sources of odor. But in any case, they will also focus on repeated inspections of the cement plant in the first quarter of 2020 or possibly. other possible sources of smell, and will want to deal actively with the Pardubice Region. I have to say that these things actually take longer sometimes, because it is not always clear, but usually, in the vast majority of cases, at the end, it is actually possible to find the source of the smell and somehow force the operator, even through a change in the integrated permit from the point of view of the regional authority, to force the technology to change so that it does not bother. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u59	Thank you. Is the Member interested in an additional question or not? He's not interested in a follow-up question, so let's move on. Please, Mrs Richterová, who will interpel Mrs Maláčová on the under-evaluation of the workers and the crisis at the Labour Office. Mr. Rais will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u60	Thank you for the floor. Hello, Madam Secretary. I'm very glad she's here. And I want to get right to the point. I'm communicating a lot with the workers of the labour offices, last Wednesday I went to see how it looks in Prague 4, which is extremely overloaded, and I was trying to find out why people are so desperate missing, why the first line on the counter, where work is difficult, is almost impossible to get qualified workers. In doing so, people are ideally educated, because the social investigations to be carried out by people with disabilities, such as care contributions, really require proper qualifications for this. And it's actually almost the same work as that done by community social workers in the field of material distress. And it turned out to me that the main problem is that municipalities are pulling the same people over, and they're pulling them over because they're in a higher grade. How does it work? The social workers of the labour offices are actually at 10:00, while the municipal workers are at 11:00. I want to ask you, Madam Secretary, quite simply. You, your ministry, are dealing with the so-called. a catalogue of administrative activities. Is it your authority to move the workers to the 11th grade where the municipal social workers are today? I know that it will have budget costs, but since the Labour Office is key to the whole functioning of the people support agenda in various social situations, and the fact that there are workers and especially workers incredibly overloaded is an objective fact - so will you make this change? You're gonna change the listing? I know you have a working group to do that, I'm sure you're doing it regularly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u61	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. I ask the Minister for an answer. Before they arrive, I'll introduce the House with a note. Mr Tomáš Kohoutek apologises between 14.30 and 18.00 for reasons of work. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u62	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I thank the lady of the house for the question. You probably know that the remuneration of workers and, in particular, employees under the Ministry of the MPSV is a very important thing. For this reason, in terms of increasing the salaries of civil servants, we have chosen a whole new approach last year, namely that we have focused on adding particularly the salary-weakest employees in the public administration. For this reason, each employee has added the same amount of CZK 1,500, which has helped in proportion to the lowest salary. And then the so-called canceled. the weakest table, which means that the remuneration of civil servants, particularly in culture, has also increased substantially in education. These employees were transferred to higher pay tables. As far as your specific question about the employees at the employment offices is concerned, I would like to say that there is no way that we can talk about the fact that there is a crisis at the employment offices. Yes, the situation in Prague is specific and this is mainly due to wage levels and salaries in the capital. In general, the government is struggling with this phenomenon because the tables are limping behind the private sector. But I must say that we have done a great deal of work in this area, especially in terms of increasing. We also try to motivate employees through personal evaluation etc. As far as your specific question is concerned, the work catalogue, you probably mean, not administrative activities, you said administrative activities, so the work catalogue is a catalogue that has a system where people are classified according to work demands. It is not possible to move them up and down on purpose only in order to increase their salaries. I really think that an increase in public service salaries should be done through the tables, not through the work catalogue. That doesn't mean, in any case, I don't want to imply that the employees of the employment offices deserve a higher financial assessment. On the contrary, I think that they need to be better assessed financially, and I am doing my best to do this, and it will also be the priority of the labour and social affairs department for this year's wage negotiations, i.e. with effect from 1 January next year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u63	Thank you, and the honourable Member is interested in an additional question. So please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u64	I have been involved in this topic for a long time, and I am also elected Prague, so I am interested in the fact that almost all Prague contact points have long-term vacancies and it is actually impossible for the directors of those branches to resolve this in the current situation where there is zero unemployment in Prague and loyal workers from other parts of the country come here to assist. It's actually completely insane. So I see that it is simply absolutely necessary to deal with this when the huge queues that touch moms on mothers, which affect exactly foster parents, people with disabilities, all those who need employment services are reality, in Prague 4, in Prague 10, for which I am elected. And that's why I'm asking that, at the same time, the people in the municipal social union will tell me that, yes, we know, we're gonna drag the skilled workers over to the employment office. And this is because there is a social worker in the public administration catalogue and there is another way in the catalogue of administrative activities for the employment office. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u65	Thank you, and please, Madam Secretary, if she answers. It will be, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u66	I would like to do a little repairing, mommies certainly don't expect queues at the employment offices, mothering is requested at the Czech Social Security Administration, i.e. in the district administration. As far as the queues are concerned, I'm guessing that's where moms are at parenting. In fact, I think we agree, Madame, that we are all concerned that the employees of the state, if they are doing good work, should be well evaluated, fairly. As I say, this is why, for the first time as a government, we have agreed to increase the fixed amount and to increase the number of employees in accordance with the principle of CZK 1,500, because the worst payment you have in mind will be improved by the percentage. I think that's the point and that's a good way to go. But I agree with you that we must not let go of our efforts to ensure that high-quality civil servants are well paid. As for the queues, it is true that at the beginning of the year, respectively. At the beginning of the quarter, because insurance benefits are applied for quarterly, there is a shock, however, during the following weeks the strain can be managed. And we are dealing with this in addition to the higher pay grade, which will also be a priority for this year, as I have already said, by strengthening from other workplaces. Otherwise, it is also true that Prague is really specific about the salary assessment. I outlined the solution - it is precisely the increase in remuneration in the state administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u67	Thank you and we will move on to the next interpellation that Mr Rais will also have on Mrs. Minister Maláčová, regarding the competition for the Director of the Information System of Benefits II.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u68	Hello, Madam Secretary. I'm following up on my previous interpellation on the problem of creating and operating the IT of your ministry. My question concerns a very specific information system that provides social benefits, namely the Single Information System of Labour and Social Affairs - IS social benefits II. It is generally known that the Competition Authority decided in December 2019 on an illegal procedure by your Ministry concerning the exclusion of a company called DXC, following the complaint of a second competitor, a company named OKsystem. In this contract, your ministry has been deciding for over two years between the DXC offer of 270 million. CZK and OKsystem in the amount of 830 million. I am surprised that it has happened that your officials still prefer a significantly more expensive offer from OKsystem for the 830 miles. CZK prior to the offer for 270 million. a year, which you illegally excluded from the competition. And if I add yesterday's information from the Czech News Agency, where it is said that the information system will cost more than 2 billion, then I am completely confused. So the question, virtually. Question set: How did you come to believe that DXC's offer was disproportionately low? When will the procurement procedure be finalized? When does your ministry plan to conclude a contract with the winner of this information system and whether the evaluation committee meetings are ongoing? If you could just describe the process to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u69	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for a response to this interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u70	Thank you for the interview, Mr. Ambassador, because we've been dealing rather intensively with this on the Social Committee today, this morning. As for yesterday's article, which referred to four months old information received by the Social Policy Committee four months ago, but yesterday the media reported it on the front pages, so I ask you a question as follows. It is not that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, as you said, did not want to decide on the whole thing for two years, but both applicants appeal to each other and for the last time on 12 December the IOHS decided on this matter. We do not agree with the decision of the UOHS, we do not agree with it, however, because the appeal would extend the whole matter by five months, we decided not to appeal on this matter and the decision of the UOHS to accept it, because the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has as its primary task to provide functional systems for non-insurable social benefits to 1. 1. 2021, economically and in high quality. As for all the questions about why we find the DXC offer very cheap, we have a simplified role to play in the sense that the UOHS has very precisely given the specific amounts in its justification, and it seems cheap to us because DXC calculates with a monthly gross wage - monthly gross wage! - for state critical infrastructure developers of 41 thousand. Crowns. We believe, given the salary and wage performance in IT, that 41,000. Gross monthly is the price at which the critical infrastructure of the State cannot be built so as to be reliable. I'm just reminding you that through this batch system, the state pays more than 80 billion a year. Crowns. And we would not like to repeat the situation of 2012, when the entire dose system collapsed under TOP 09 and benefits were not paid. As far as further progress is concerned, as I mentioned, 12. 12. The UOHS annulled the exclusion of DXC Technology, the decision is final since 27 December last year. The evaluation committee was convened on 8 January 2020 when it reopened the DXC offer from the point of view of the existence of an extremely low bid price, taking into account the ÚOHS' alleged shortcomings in the justification of the excluded applicants - 41.000. Rude, one more time. At present, therefore, MPSV is taking all steps in the shortest possible short period of time that will lead to a decision as quickly as possible on the selection of a successful tenderer for the IS DAV II public contract. In the light of the legal deadlines and possible further withdrawal of unsuccessful tenderers, there may be a situation that will not sign the real contract with the selected successful tenderer before 31. 10th of this year. Therefore, the MPSV also prepares procurement documentation to ensure the operation and development of existing OK applications through an open selection procedure after 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u71	Thank you. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in additional questions. He does. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u72	I don't even have a question, as I thank you for the explanation, because some information I didn't have, I only have information from the press or ordinary materials. Around that critical infrastructure for the 40 grand. I also read, they also write at the same time, why it is that they worked on it, I feel, I just read some kind of justification, but it doesn't really matter. So, as I understand it, basically the lowest bid is accepted, the evaluation committee is working, and there is, of course, the risk that in the case of those appeals on October 31st, the signature of the contract could still be implemented. Do I understand that correctly?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u73	I ask the Minister to answer this supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u74	No, Mr. Ambassador. If I had to say it in a simple way, there are three possible scenarios at the moment. Everyone is honestly evaluated by the MPSV and we do not rule out any of the three options.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u75	Thank you. And now Mr Michálek will intersect the absent Minister Benešová on the matter of the real owners of the companies, Mrs Kovářová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u76	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, my fellow Members, Madam Secretary, I would like to ask what is the state of the preparation of legislation concerning the implementation of the last directive of the European Union on the real owners of companies. My point is to publish a register of final owners or real owners, as they call it in Czech legislation. It is a matter that should already be implemented at the beginning of January, i.e. Now we are past the implementation deadline and are in danger of being fined by the European Union. So it means that it's not traceable who owns the company. You can repeat these cases like the Capi Nest, where it wasn't clear who owns the company, etc. So if we want to prevent such cases in the future, if we want to make the company's ownership more transparent, for example. clear who is granted a grant to whom a public contract is awarded, so it is necessary to have this instrument as soon as possible. As I was saying, unfortunately, we're past the deadline now. It got stuck in some way because of the related legislation at the Ministry of Finance. And I wanted to ask whether it would really be possible to speed up the preparation, or possibly who would actually pay the penalty, which we will have to pay the European Union for not fulfilling the obligation to implement the relevant European directives.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u77	Thank you. The Minister will respond to your intervention in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days in writing. And I am now asking Mrs Kovářová, who will intersect Minister Vojtěch on the issue of the availability of drugs in pharmacies. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u78	Dear Minister, I am addressing you with a serious issue, and this is the availability of medicines - this has already been said - and thus the availability of medicines in pharmacies. This has been very timely for Czech citizens lately, and at the beginning of the year - and I think this persists - we are worried about the lack of supplies of certain medicines, which may not be an alternative. It's three areas of medicine. First of all, high-pressure drugs, thyroid meds and diabetes meds. I think the lack of medication of this type is no longer a joke, of course, like when Endiron wasn't available. The loss of these medicines can be very serious for patients and can cause them serious health problems. As we spoke recently, you have announced that due to the lack of medicine, the Ministry is preparing an amendment to the law which introduces the so-called. The allergenic system, which should ensure that the drug supplier is obliged to deliver the missing drug to the pharmacy within two days, otherwise he will be threatened with significant sanctions, and the amendment should prevent the sale of Czech medicines abroad for profit. I ask you: What is the situation today? How is the situation currently being addressed with a lack of prescription drugs, i.e. before the amendment is approved? And when do you expect the amendment to be discussed? If it can really prevent the availability of medicines in the Czech Republic and how specifically? And when do you estimate that this amendment will be approved and put into effect and put into effect? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u79	Thank you. And I ask the Minister to respond to this interpellation. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u80	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the interpelation and the question on the subject, which is undoubtedly serious and of course also bothering us at the Ministry and the State Institute for Drug Control, because the inaccessibility of medicinal products seems to be actually becoming more and more serious. And the truth is that there are many reasons. That means there isn't one reason why the medication is missing. The reasons are manufacturing. The reasons are economic. The reasons are administrative in nature. Indeed, we are paying great attention to this with the State Institute for Drug Control. We are even dealing with this at international level, because in many cases it is not only about the Czech Republic, but it is a problem throughout Europe, so it was also raised at the level of V4 in the context of ministerial meetings. Among other things, we are now chairing the V4 so that it was one of the priorities at the EU Council level in the negotiations of health ministers. So we need to get the European Commission on our side in this regard, too, because Europe really needs to realise that drugs are a strategic commodity, and to take action at EU level as well. But what we can do at least at our level in the context of the measures that are possible and feasible, so we just incorporated it into the amendment to the Act on Medicines, which went through the first reading this week and which brings exactly four basic measures to deal with the flexibly outages of medicines. For one thing, the first measure concerns that we can, let's say, replace extraordinarily some medicine that is in the blackout with another medicine. We now know that, in practice, it may happen that a drug cannot be placed on the market solely because of its administrative nature. There's a problem in the package, in the package leaflet, etc. and this does not affect the quality and safety of the medicinal product. In fact, the State Institute for Drug Control will be able to grant an exemption and release such a drug, which may only have some administrative error, so that it can reach patients because it is safe for patients in terms of the effectiveness and safety of the treatment. So that's the first measure. If there's an administrative reason, there's no reason for him not to get to the patients if it's necessary to get him to the patients. The second measure concerns precisely the uncoordinated export of medicinal products, which are covered by public health insurance, issued for a recipe and are therefore exported outside the Czech Republic. This topic is also gaining importance because we see on the data of the last year that every quarter increases the volume of drug reexports from the Czech Republic. Overall, in the previous year, we are somewhere around CZK three to five billion. It's hundreds of thousands of packages that are balanced like this. There are distributors here who export hundreds of thousands of packages. Most of what they get simply from producers, so they deliver and do not deliver to Czech patients to Czech pharmacies. And that's what the law is supposed to do. That means they're gonna stop these undesirable reporters that aren't good for anybody. Only those who do business with the drugs. But I don't think it's entirely in the public interest. Another area that is very important is the so-called. non-emmergent system. This means that if the pharmacy is unable to obtain the medicine in the standard distribution network, it will contact the drug manufacturer, and for the first time in the history of the drug manufacturer in the legislation will have a clear obligation to provide medicine for Czech patients within a maximum of two days, to any pharmacy in the Czech Republic where the patient comes with his prescription, and the pharmacy will not be able to order the medicine in the distribution network, so it will turn to the manufacturer and under financial sanctions the manufacturer will have to deliver the medicine. So that's another measure. And there's really a lot of these things. Among other things, and this is also actually a novelty, for the first time there will actually be a deadline in the law if there is a failure to produce a given drug, which can happen when the manufacturer has to restore the supply of drugs. That deadline is 120 days. There is currently no time limit, which means the blackout might take a year. We in the law say no more than 120 days. If the drug goes out, the manufacturer has to restore it, otherwise there's a penalty. So the law, I believe it will help. He's been through his first reading, now he's going to the committees. And I believe it will be effective soon. We're assuming efficiency from next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u81	Thank you. The honourable Member is interested in a supplementary question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u82	Thank you for your answer, Minister. You said the law should be effective from the beginning of next year. And until then, do you think these international negotiations will help? After all, it's been a few months, almost eleven. So how are you going to deal with this until then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u83	The Minister will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u84	So, of course, I'd like the law to be effective as soon as possible. But we know that the laws currently can only be effective from 1. 7. or from 1. 1. So from 1. 7. We probably can't handle the efficiency, even if I'd like to. Let's see how these meetings take place on the committee. But in any case, it is certainly not that we rely only on this novel. We're already actively dealing with manufacturers, for example, if there's a blackout. It was the case, for example, of Digoxin - a very used drug of many patients, so we actively dealt with Zentiva. We are trying to push those manufacturers, but unfortunately, at the moment, the legislative regulation as set up does not give us much choice, so we do not have the opportunity to push the manufacturer completely. I believe that the law will help us with this, that there are really clear financial sanctions. Believe that this is a topic that we deal with both at the Ministry of Health and at the State Institute for Drug Control on a very regular basis. We try, if the drug is simply not available, even to handle individual questions, because sometimes it actually happens that it is not just the blackout, but we have information that the drug is located somewhere in the Czech Republic, that it is not reported blackout, but it is not in some pharmacies. And we ask why. We want drugs in every pharmacy in the Czech Republic, whether it is somewhere in the mountains in the Giant Mountains or in the center of Prague. So that's what the law should be about, so that the distribution of drugs is just equal. I believe it will help. And we're really doing our best.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u85	Thank you. The next is Mrs Krutáková's winning interview. He will intersect the Minister of Health Vojtěch Adam. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u86	Dear Minister, the current problem in the Czech Republic is the hantavirus that they are facing right now at Opava Hospital. The incidence of hantavirus is on average one case per year, but according to yesterday's information, Czech Television has already counted six cases only in the last six months. There is no cure for the virus, affects the kidneys or the respiratory system of man and can be fatal. The vector is tiny rodents who are experiencing a population explosion right now. Up to 20,000 people die a year in the world because of the virus. That is why I ask you, Minister, how you will respond to the high incidence of hantavirin diseases and whether you will lobby for adequate and effective reduction of rodents in the respective departments. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u87	Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as far as your question is concerned, the incidence of hantavirus, of course, is closely monitored, we have the reports. It's true that the number of cases has increased over the last two years, that's a fact. According to my information, in 2019 the cases were 15, in 2018 five. So, of course, there is some increasing tendency, even in terms of the incidence of disease within Europe, it is not some major epidemic. But on the other hand, of course, we must perceive that there is an increasing tendency. And the truth is, there is a correlation in the transfer from rodents. We have dealt with the Ministry of Agriculture in this regard, and you may have noticed that today it has been presented by the Ministry of Agriculture that, given the overgrowth of these rodents, especially the voles, there will be some kind of bulwark extermination. I think that the way I had the opportunity to hear information from the Minister of Agriculture, and we discussed it with the Minister of the Environment, so the situation is ripe for real intervention, because we have a relatively mild winter, which means that, of course, the multiplication will continue. So it's not just a matter of damage to agricultural crops, but I'm sure we need to put human health ahead of, say, the voles themselves. So we're informed of this. I think that the measure that has now been presented by the Ministry of Agriculture is going the right way, and I believe it will also help in this area.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u89	Thank you. Is the Member interested in an additional question? It's not like that. So I will ask the next in line, Mr Martin, to give his interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u90	Have a good day. Thank you, but I'll wait for Minister Toman's personal involvement, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u91	Thank you. I will ask Mrs Černochová to give us her interpellation to the Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Beautiful afternoon. Dear absent minister, we should soon approve a new mandate for sending soldiers of the Czech Republic into foreign operations and missions. There is now information that a new deployment of troops to the Sahel area should be approved for mentoring the security forces there. I do not question the necessity of the Czech Republic's activities in unstable areas in order to increase the security of the Czech Republic. However, I would like to know the broader context of deploying our forces from the perspective of our foreign policy priorities. The latest proposals therefore mean that we are expanding our operations in the Sahel. I wonder what the target is, where we're going, and in what time frame. Can you answer that, please? What does our plan look like for the next five years with regard to the Sahel, what specific foreign policy interests are we fulfilling there, and how? Finally, I wonder what the involvement of our ministries, whether industry or agriculture, will be strengthened by our diplomatic offices and whether the funds spent by the Czech Republic in this area will be increased. I would have assumed that with the expansion of our efforts, civilian assistance would also be extended. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u93	Thank you and your interpelation will be completed within the appropriate time limit. I will ask Mr Kaňkovský to present his intervention to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u94	Good afternoon, Mr President, dear ministers, dear colleagues, colleagues. I would like to address the Minister Maláčová in connection with the tragic fire for people with disabilities in Vejprty. I certainly do not want to direct this interpelation as some kind of barbecue towards the Minister, because, of course, as far as the causes of the fire are concerned, this is on the part of the investigative authorities, both the Fire Rescue Corps and the authorities involved in criminal proceedings. My question will be more about what conclusions the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has made of this tragic event so far, especially in a preventive sense. I am, of course, convinced of this, or I know that the risk of a similar undesirable event can never be completely eliminated. I have also experienced very tragic events in our Havlíčkobrodské hospital. There will simply always be certain risks in carrying out any human activity. However, as has been shown in the media so far, the technical state of the building in Vejprty - and it must be said that such objects, social services facilities in the Czech Republic through regional investment, through investments from European funds, are still a number of such facilities. We have a whole range of social services facilities that are not in good technical condition. And if, for example, they only had fire sensors in the bathrooms in Vejprty, from my point of view and from the experts' point of view, this is insufficient. So my question, Madam Secretary, is how do you want to boost your investment in social services? Because in recent years investment in the restoration of the material technical base of social services has stagnated, in a situation where the Czech Republic is in economic bloom and when we should invest in social services due to the demographic curve. So that's question number one. How do you want to strengthen investment in social services? And the second question is lack of personnel. This is what we are talking about repeatedly, and, as it turns out, the real lack of workers in social services is becoming a risk to the operation of these facilities. So many of my questions to you, Madam Secretary. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u95	Thank you. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr Kaňkovský, for the interpellation. I was in Vyprty on Sunday, hours after the tragic event. I have to say, I've talked to both the mayor and the director of the facility and the employees who helped save clients. It's an experience I won't forget. Really, when you look at the place, you realize what happened there, it's very overwhelming. I'd start with how we helped as the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. On Monday we announced a subsidy commission that helped the region on the basis of the Social Services Act in this emergency situation, and at this time we are implementing budget measures of CZK 5 million to help the DOZV Vejprta help. And it is the funds for the contributions involved, which arose with this emergency, and for the reconstruction of the facilities in the DRC. The second thing we did on Monday - that is, on Tuesday the extraordinary subsidy of CZK 5 million was processed and on Monday morning the Labor Office paid 14 extra immediate aids for clothing, shoes, hygiene needs of those clients they asked for, just for the mop. [[16.20 hours]] As for the measures that we are due to this tragic event, or what conclusion we are actually drawing from it, I must say that at this point in time there is an inter-ministerial review procedure for the amendment to the Social Services Act, which means that at this point we have an open law to respond to. As of today, after all, it was at a press conference, I know the reasons for the fire, it was an open fire handling, and you know that the fire-fighting standards in all the new facilities are already much stricter. The problem is with the older devices, but we're standing there before sophiiný's choice whether to increase the level of client protection or actually close these devices. I think this discussion will be very important. We want to implement it in cooperation with the founders, with the regions, but also with you legislators in the Chamber of Deputies as soon as we send the amendment to Law 108 into the legislative process. As for the investments on the material engineering base, I'd like to disagree with you. In fact, as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I negotiated for the second time in a row the sum of CZK half a billion for investments in residential facilities in the field of social services. I would like the amount to be higher for next year, so that it keeps rising every year, because I'm talking in the long run that by 2030, we're going to have to build some 12 to 15,000 additional places in residential facilities. Although I agree that the emphasis on the development of social services should be on field and outpatient social services, so that everyone who can stay home, however, when it is no longer possible, so that we can actually cope with the ageing of society. If we have a limit of a million and a half per bed, it's a simple calculation that requires tens of billions of crowns. And I have also set this as the objective of negotiating the future programming period of European funds, so that, in fact, funding from European funds can help us build those additional capacities. This means, if I have to briefly summarize the answer to your question, the biggest scope for discussing these measures will be within the framework of the amendment to Act 108, where inter-revisional commentary proceedings are currently underway. As regards the increase from the state budget for investment in social services infrastructure, there we negotiated a high budget of CZK half a billion for the second time in a row. We're gonna keep doing this, and we're gonna raise it. Without the involvement of European funds for the construction of these 12 to 15 thousand additional sites in the next ten years of ageing as such, we cannot manage.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u97	Thank you. I ask if the Member is interested in an additional question. He does. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u98	I thank the Minister for her answer. I welcome the emergency measures, and I'm sure I have nothing against them. But as far as the investment in social services is concerned, I also dare to disagree there, because in recent years, the investment in social services has been a little bit more, at least in some years, and, above all, it must be said that the need is growing. And if we look at the ratio of how much the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs invests in social services - and not only the reconstructions, but also the construction of new and community types of facilities - devotes and what applications are, then the inequality grows there. So the need is greater, and if the government here has a very ambitious National Investment Plan, which envisages a number of science fiction actions outside the social area, I must say, then I ask where the priorities of this government are. We are aging populations, we have a big problem with providing certain types of services, and in science fiction National Investment Plan, the social area is quite much forgotten. So, in my opinion, the government underestimates this type of service, and then, of course, it causes the problems that there are. And it must also be said that the regions invested heavily in social services, but it was with the help of European funds and this possibility is gradually drying up. So, in my opinion, it is necessary for the government to take this as a fact and actually prepare a plan to invest social services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u99	Thank you. Madam Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u100	Now, honourable Member, I beg to differ. On the contrary, the social area has been integrated into the National Investment Plan for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. And there's exactly 12 to 15,000 additional seats by 2030. This means, on the contrary, that it is clear that this is the priority of our government, this government, to build sufficient capacity in social services residential facilities. As far as European money is concerned, the challenges or the money will dry up in this programming period, because this programming period is ending. As I said, it is a huge challenge for me and a priority to negotiate even more funds for the regions, but also for the municipalities for the next programming period, so that we can continue this trend.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u101	Thank you. I would like to hear another interview from Mr Vít Rakušan. He will interpel the Interior Minister Jan Hamáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u102	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, unfortunately absent, Minister Hamáček, I am here to represent the mayors of the Central Bohemia Region. I'm sure you've registered something that's settled under the name Jesenical Challenge. It is a challenge for mayors from the Prague region who complain about the acute lack of police officers in the Central Bohemia Region, especially in the suburbanized area around Prague. 250,000 people have moved to this area over the last few years. This is not in line with the increase in the number of police officers or tables, but also the real increase in police supervision in this location. In the last two months, only the town of Jesenice has broken into more than 15 family houses. Four houses were robbed on Christmas Eve. We have published your calls in the media in the sense that you welcome that citizens establish militias, that citizens invest themselves in various security systems and have a system of neighbourly assistance where they inform each other of the movement of strangers. I don't think this is an adequate response from the Home Secretary. It should ensure that not citizens in our country take the law into their own hands, but that the system works so that citizens in our country will actually be guaranteed security. Therefore, Minister, I ask you how you intend to address the alarming lack of police officers in the Central Bohemia Region, and how the Police of the Czech Republic are preparing for the next 300,000 people in the Central Bohemia Region. It is not possible to leave the mayors and mayors of these municipalities without help and I beg you for close cooperation with the Central Bohemia Region and an early response to my intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u103	Thank you. Let me read the apology. Mr Marian Bojko apologizes from 16 o'clock to the end of the day for reasons of work. Another was drawn by the interpellation of Mr Karel Krejza. He's going to interpel Secretary of Defense Lubomír Metnar. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u104	Mr President, fellow Members, Mr Minister, I have a few questions about the contract for a passive surveillance system that was supposedly taken recently. Has the Defence Committee been informed about this contract? Is there an expert opinion on the price in place and time usual? And does the company that processed it have enough experience to contract military acquisitions? Why was the exception chosen when a similar system or the same system competed with NATO through its NCIA in open proceedings and the price was CZK 434 million? And finally, how is it that our price is reported to be CZK 1.5 billion? And one last question. Is the contract signed? Who signed it? Did the government approve this? When and with what result and when is the first payment expected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u105	Well, thank you, and the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly recapitulate the project for the purchase of a passive surveillance system for the military. First of all, I would like to state that the Defence Committee has received information about the intention to acquire a passive surveillance system under the name DPET as a basis for the meeting held on 6 February 2019, which I have in my possession, within the framework of a regular report by the Ministry of Defence for public contracts with a planned allocation of funds of over CZK 50 million. The updated version of this document was sent to the Committee in October 2019. At the same time, the acquisition of the DPET system, including the allocation of funds in individual years, was included in the draft budget of the Czech Republic for 2020 in the chapter of the Ministry of Defence, with which the committee was also informed. [[16.30 hours]] But here I want to say, because then I'm going to do it, yes, it was with the allocated amount. And it hasn't changed the amount because the Ministry of Finance hasn't yet registered, and we couldn't get it right in the chapter book because the Ministry of Finance didn't approve. That's right. I would also like to say, as I have already told the media today, that the initial allocation of funds resulted from a marketing survey carried out in 2014 and 2015 and was based on the valuation of its own system without all the functionality that will be delivered. This single error in the whole project, and I have admitted this error, has in no way had any effect on the implementation of the project, and in this context I have already adopted clear rules last week so that this error does not recur. I would also like to say and add that the worker responsible for this step is no longer working at the Ministry of Defence. In the case of this public contract, the Ministry of Defence acted fully in accordance with the Public Procurement Act from the outset. The contracting authority has chosen a procurement method which fully complies with all domestic and Union generally binding regulations. Here I would like to say that the exception of Section 29d has been chosen, which in this case is clearly military material. The Ministry of Defence demonstrates its legal procedure and will continue to document it. It should also be pointed out that we are getting the latest passive tracking system, a composition very different from that of NATO six years ago. In addition to rising prices and technological developments over the years, there is a significant difference in the parameters of the systems compared, as the system for our army is war-in-use, mobile, ballistic protection and is intended for comprehensive provision of ground, air and maritime objectives, while the NATO system it has acquired is without ballistics. It's a situation or a built-up system as a surveillance system to ensure only air targets. There is a fundamental difference not only in the required functionality of the technologies used, but mainly in the composition of the system. I would also like to stress that the price for the acquisition of two sets for the army is 1.24 billion. CZK without VAT and was verified by an independent expert institute, which arose from a separate selection procedure. At the end of the independent assessment it is explicitly stated that the price is in place and time normal and non-speculative. I informed the government about the public contract in February 2019. Deputy for the Management of Armament and Acquisitions Section on 14 January 2020 signed a purchase agreement with the supplier of the equipment, which is the company ERA, a. s. The acquisition of new passive surveillance systems is fully in line with the security interests of the Czech Republic and with the needs of ensuring the security of the Czech Republic, corresponds to our commitments to the North Atlantic Alliance, increases our interoperability and our military technology. [[Time, Minister.]] Finally, I would like to say that, given the speculations that have appeared in the media, I have ordered a thorough check. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u107	I'm begging you... The Member shall have the right to an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u108	Thank you for your answers. I'll just allow myself to hand over to the Minister the material we had on the Sub-Committee for Acquisitions of 8. 11. 2019. There's no contract. And the additional question is, where does the Ministry of Defense take the money for it? They're not in your budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u109	Now, the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u110	Thank you. I'll take a look at the material you handed me when I was preparing for the interpellation. I have here the two sent tables, both from February, which were handed over to the committee and, on the other hand, from September 2019. I've got them right here. As far as funds are concerned, the funds are allocated in the budget, and if they were not allocated and we did not have this project consecrated, registered with funds, it would not have occurred, could not have occurred, realized, could not have been signed. [[the need for]] That's basic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u111	So, I'm gonna ask you not to worry about it by shouting in the hall. And another winning Member is Mr Radek Rozvoral, interpelling to the Minister of the Interior. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Minister, I am asking you to make an urgent announcement as the Minister of the Interior responsible for the security of citizens about the raid of a gang that robs large houses in the villages southeast of Prague. At the same time, I ask you to take all steps immediately to ensure the order and security of the citizens. According to the information available, the gang is already responsible for about 120 break-ins, and the perpetrators are still not caught. We are being approached by desperate citizens asking for help. Since citizens cannot rely fully on the Ministry of the Interior, which also includes other relevant components, some prefer to guard the safety of their homes and families with their own weapons in their hands. The situation is unbearable. The perpetrator is mostly interested in cash and jewelry. You said recently in the People's House that Facebook is a huge danger to democracy today, which I do not agree with you and I claim that the danger is not Facebook, but a gang of thieves who have been around Prague for a long time. Like other criminals who are enormously threatening or harassing decent and proper citizens. So I strongly ask you, in the name of the citizens who have turned to us, to start working for the citizens of the Czech Republic and to address their security first. That is why I ask what the Ministry of the Interior is doing to increase the numbers of police officers that are generally not being received throughout the Republic. Statistics also show that police officers flee from the Central Bohemia Region to Prague for better salaries. If the government had not wasted funds to finance the ever-increasing bureaucracy and the swelling of the bureaucracy apparatus, to fund non-profit organizations with a political-ideological program, to buy overpriced military technology, to support solar barons and unnecessary inclusion in education, there would certainly be a few billion to increase the number of police officers and increase their salaries. It is in the interest of all of us, because the security of our citizens must be a priority and a major mission for each policy. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u113	Thank you. The answer will be drawn up in writing. And it is Mrs Jarošová's turn to intersect the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u114	Madam Secretary, I have a question about the material issued by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, entitled Methodological Guidelines for the Establishment of Micro-Laesses, specifically the Annex to the Plan of Care and Education in Micro-Lases. Let me quote a few passages from this Annex: "Children are led to the awareness of differences in human society in terms of cultural and value differences, to the awareness of differences between people with an emphasis on combating prejudices about men and women. We pay special attention to the stereotypical division of roles between men and women, to the activities that interfere with this perception. We encourage girls and boys to play common games that are commonly attributed only to one sex, such as car games or dolls. If possible, we choose toys, such as dolls, other than light skin colors. When reading fairy tales, we choose outside the classical Czech or European fairy tales from other cultural circles. We also choose stories in which different family models occur or which do not work with traditional stereotypes in the roles of men and women." Madam Secretary, what is the manual for? Whose impulse was it created for? Is this to be the preparation of our youngest generation for multicultural coexistence, or is this another attack on the traditional family and the irreplaceable role of men and women for its balanced functioning? Does that mean it's tailor-made to the LGBT community?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u115	Thank you. And the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u116	Madam, thank you for your interpellation. To begin with, I would like to stress that this is a non-binding methodological recommendation for the development of an education plan, which is part of the children's care manual in microjesles. It's a three-year-old non-binding methodical recommendation. Recommendations. This Recommendation contains, in particular, practical information on the operation of the service in pilot verification, admission of children, operation, preparation of relevant documents, references to legislation and so on. There are very good responses to the manual from micro-doubt operators. The guide, including the final expert review, was attended by a professional platform whose members and members were also leading Czech education experts. The methodological recommendation on the education and care plan was not intended to prepare binding procedures. Basically, they are defined by each microbearer himself, because this guide is merely a recommendation. I think that the issue of gender-sensitive approach is only part of the document, it is mentioned as one of the ethical principles. Other ethical principles that you have not quoted are respect for life and health, positive relation to nature and animals, protection of nature as such and the gentle treatment of food, mutual respect between people, respect, solidarity and cooperation. Furthermore, there are mentioned exactly the same proportions in addition to the already mentioned conflict resolution nonviolent way, life in modern society including the use of modern technological means and also not distinguishing in modern society persons by age, gender or skin color. The sources of inspiration in these principles include, among other things, the books of Mr Zdeněk Matějček, Mr Ladislav špaček and the publications of the Czech Council of Children and Youth on the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The introduction to this methodological material states that it is based on the framework education programme for pre-school education, which was last updated by the Ministry of Education in 2016, and depends on each caring person whether other educational programmes will be inspired in planning. According to the specific rules for micro-circles, the service provider must prepare a pre-service education and care plan and familiarise the parents with it. I think that's really important. Parents, before placing their child in micro-weather, need to be familiar with this education and care plan, and logically I suggest that they must also agree with this education and care plan. Thus, the content of the document is completely within the competence of both parents and founders, or carers, and the parents decide on what principles their child is to be raised on. Overall, we have in the Czech Republic or there will be a hundred microdoubles for children up to the fourth year of age. If I should sum it all up, honourable Member, actually respect for others, raising children to think, which also contains diversity, is important to me, and if parents and caring people agree, I see nothing wrong with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u117	Thank you. The Member has an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u118	Thank you for your answer. But even if it's casual, as you say, I'm afraid I can't help myself, but all these steps that I've mentioned are leading to brainwashing our smallest. I think it's an obvious attack on a traditional family where a father is a man and a wife's mother, and it's denying their irreplaceable role in education. At least what I mentioned. And all I can do is appeal to my parents to change their minds and to see who teaches their children and what they've been banging on their heads since they were young, and not to let their parents take it and choose a daycare center based on whether they practice this manual or whether they practice it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u119	Madam Secretary will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u120	Madam, I beg to differ from your point of view. I think mentioning that people are different and family has different forms isn't brainwashing. I will remind you that half of the children in the Czech Republic are born outside of marriage. We might like it or not. I wish that number was different. And from the half of the children born in marriage, half of them get divorced in the years to come. Every fourth family in the Czech Republic is a single family. It means that this diversity is obviously already part of our lives, and mentioning it in front of children isn't brainwashing. They don't raise children in microjournals, as you say, to these principles, it's just mentioned that there are other forms of family other than traditional ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u121	Thank you. And I'm gonna ask you to do another interpelation, in order of 23. Mr Petr Beitl will interpel the Minister of Education Robert Plaga. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u122	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, in my field work, I have encountered a problem which raises last year's call for V5 Sport, investment for sports clubs and physical unity. Specifically, it is sub-programme 133D 531, and the problem is the binding deadline for the final completion of the implementation of the subsidised buildings. I would remind you that this is an investment title in which funds can be obtained from 3 to 30 million. Crowns. The challenge was announced 20. 9. last year, ended 31. 10th of the same year. And beware, the deadline for termination of subsidized actions is until 31. 12. 2020, i.e. this year. And I note that to date, this is the end of January, the results of the competition have not yet been announced, so the entities do not know whether they have succeeded in the competition. When the competition is announced, the next step is to announce the competition for the supplier of construction works, possibly to complete the building documentation for implementing documentation. So, generally speaking, it's 30 miles to invest. one narrowed construction season, at the risk of losing the subsidy and sanctions, of course. At least last year it was divided into two years in the same grant title. Everyone may need to know what problems are being faced by construction companies in today's labour shortage and often by materials. And the pressure from my point of view of a completely pointless deadline for the completion of the event will certainly not help to compete with a favourable price for investors and pose a disproportionate risk to them. I therefore ask, Minister, what do you think of this and what has led the Ministry's officials to determine these conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u123	Thank you. You will be answered in writing within the legal time limit. Next up is MP Zdeněk Podal. He's also intersecting the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent minister, I appeal to you on an open letter to Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic, written by employees of the Úpice-Lány Elementary School with the support of the mayor of Úpice. On 10. 1. 2020 I heard with Mr. Vice-President of the House of Okamura and Mrs. Šrámková in Úpici the reasons for writing an open letter. I will briefly state the reasons for the letter. Teachers described a situation that is becoming a general problem, a completely distorted concept of social policy, which resigned from the basic social responsibility of people, meaning parents of children who do not cooperate with the school. The second reason is the current concept of inclusion, when the decision-making of children, meaning transfer to special schools, is entirely up to parents to decide. In fact, the order and purpose of schoolwork are disturbed, and a number of teachers begin to resign to these values in their work. [[16.50 hours]] The school itself will not help itself in this situation, it needs support from the founder and authorities of the state administration. The crucial thing is that it is necessary to start with a change in legislation which will end positive discrimination and favouring people who refuse obligations. At present, it is necessary to provide the school with maximum support in dealing with their situation. Unfortunately, I do not think that the OSPOD workers are equipped with sufficient legislative support within the MPSV. Part of the visit was a visit to the Gymnasium in Úpice, where the director points out that it is high time to announce the conditions of the mathematics exam whether she will ever be and in what form. Here we have also learned that some students are afraid to go out on the street after dark. This is related to inadaptable citizens. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u125	The answer will be sent to you and the next in the order is the winning interview in the 25th place. Mr Radek Holomčík will intersect the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u126	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you about the issue of access to train services for people with reduced mobility after crossing train lines to private carriers. According to our findings and comments from wheelchair users there has been a rapid deterioration in the conditions of use of train transport, not to mention that only 54 percent of them have wheelchair access. In this context, I would like to draw attention to Article nine of the Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities, which was ratified by the Czech Republic in 2009. It says: States will allow disabled people to live independently and fully participate in all areas of society's life. States shall take appropriate measures to ensure access of disabled persons on an equal basis with other, material living conditions, transport, information and communication including information and communication technologies and systems, etc. These measures, which will include the identification and removal of barriers and barriers to accessibility, will concern, inter alia, buildings, transport networks, transport and other indoor and outdoor facilities, etc. And I would like to ask the Minister two questions in relation to the problems that I raised at the outset. First, what are the minimum standards that the Ministry of Transport has announced to ensure accessibility in train transport and how it controls their implementation. And the second question. How does the Ministry of Transport appeal to the county to include conditions relating to barrier-freeness in their tender procedures? I look forward to an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u127	Thank you. The next interview is interpelation number 26, Mr. Ondřej Profant... It is. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Interpelation is directed at the Minister for Regional Development. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u128	Madam Secretary of Local Development, public procurement is a relatively difficult subject. It is quite logical that we have developed a unified system that guarantees the correctness of the process, which we know as the National Electronic Instrument, in short NEN. The problem is that the Ministry did not fully manage this development. NEN often falls out, doesn't react. Last year, even the data on dozens of orders went missing, and the authorities had to declare them again. I would expect that the Ministry of Regional Development officials should try to make this system more enjoyable so that its use is not suffering, but instead the Ministry of Regional Development officials use its indiscretion and organise private training for thousands of crowns. Like a three-hour training session with . Jan Ségl from the Department of Public Procurement is worth CZK 4,500. Does that seem okay to you? Do your officials take vacations for these purposes, or do they do this during working hours? Wouldn't it be better if they cared for the system to be detuned, functional, so that we had positive feedback, for example, that municipalities wanted to use it themselves? Because at the moment, only those who are ordered to use it use it. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u129	Thank you and I will ask Mrs Golasowská, who will interpel the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u130	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, in the past I have intersected you in relation to the quality and number of inspections in social services. According to the register we have about 5,500 registered social services and only 39 inspectors. In your reply, you gave me the number of inspections carried out during the period 2015 to the first half of 2019, which, as you say, was 1 145 inspections, which is an average of 21 inspections per month and 252 inspections per year. This number is more than insufficient. You also told me that you see the problem as burning, and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is intensively concerned about it. And I ask, Madam Secretary, in what time horizon the MPSV will increase the number of inspectors - this has also been and is still the subject of discussions on the Social Committee - and what concrete steps it takes to increase the number of inspectors, such as selection procedures and so on. And I'm also asking what number of inspectors you think would be sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u131	Thank you. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u132	Thank you, Madame, for your interest in the issue of social services inspections. I think that especially in connection with the media-known case of the Slunečnice plant in the Moravian-Silesian region, this thing is more than burning. As regards the question of increasing the number of social services inspectors, I would like to inform you that an extraordinary system will be implemented in the near future at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, probably on 1. 3., it will not depend on the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, but it depends in particular on the Ministry of the Interior, and the result of this extraordinary systemization is to increase the number of systemized sites for inspectors by ten additional positions. Ongoing efforts are being made by the MPSV to mobilise the Ministry of Finance for wage costs as an inspector of social services in the framework of systemization on the basis of E2 measures. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the Programme. This means that, for the first quarter of this year, we would like to increase the number of seats by ten in the internal reserves of the MPSV. In the case of the mobilisation of funds by the Ministry of Finance for wage costs, or for salary in this case, as an inspector of social services within the framework of systemization, I am prepared to implement steps leading to an increase in the number of social services inspectors. Another option under discussion is the search for possibilities for re-engagement of specialised experts - you know that two years is not possible on the basis of an audit finding - which is currently dealt with by the Section of Legal Activities and Social Policy at our Ministry. At the end of last year we communicated about this, negotiations with representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, the result of which is agreement, implementation of joint steps to ensure the participation of specialised experts in the process of carrying out inspections of the provision of social services in the legislative environment of the Czech Republic. These negotiations are ongoing, and I would like us to agree at the end as the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on the process of anchoring the position of specialised experts within the scope of the inspection activities already mentioned. Specialized experts, field people from those facilities could then be repeatedly invited to the local survey with the social service provider as a person invited, as a special institute, under a concluded innominate contract to provide professional support in carrying out the inspection of social services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u133	Thank you. The Member will not have an additional question. I will therefore ask Mr Lukáš Kolářík, who will bring his intervention to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u134	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister Hamáček, I would like to address you in the matter of violation of the rights of patients in hospitals. In connection with this question, I was approached by a propatient organisation defending the rights of parents and underage children. She has repeated experience with the situation where her clients called the police at the hospital because they were prevented from accessing a minor child. They were not aggressive or threatened by staff or other patients, they merely asked to be able to be with their child, or as a father, with a parent. This right guarantees them the law on health services, the Constitution of the Czech Republic and the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine, ratified by the Czech Republic in Brussels. In such a situation after the exhaustion of all other options, desperate parents turn to the Police of the Czech Republic. However, it happens repeatedly that an operational officer refuses to send a crew to the site. The situation is justified by the fact that the situation has been assessed as a civil dispute and the caller is subsequently to file a criminal report. In our opinion, such a situation where there is an ongoing crime of violating the fundamental human rights of children and parents falls under Section 2 of the Police Act of the Czech Republic, which states that police serve the public and its task is to prevent crime. A strange paradox is that if a doctor calls the police, the operational officer evaluates the situation differently and usually sends it to the hospital. In addition, I would say that in all such cases, when a doctor called the police to the clients of this organization, the police gave the truth to their parents and the doctor had to step aside. We would not like to see a story in the Czech Republic that took place some time ago in Slovakia, where the mother was sitting at the door of the ICU department behind which her child died. It died alone in her absence, when the paramedics refused to let her in the department because there was no time to visit. That's why I have two questions for you. According to which key is the actual police intervention assessed at the caller's initiative? And second, is there a methodological instruction for a situation where the police are being called to patients' hospitals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u135	Thank you. You will receive your reply in writing within 30 days. Next in line is Mrs Mauritzová, she will interpel the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u136	Madam Secretary, I am addressing you with a problem which is very sensitive to my Pilsen region, but also to the whole Czech Republic. The topic of the possible closure of the Kangaroo in Janovice nad Úhlavou is already devoted to the media and a letter with a request for assistance has already been sent from the President of the Fund of Endangered Children to almost every mayor of our region. When reading it, I feel that the only person who can and could solve the situation at the same time is you and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. You really think it's better to leave A fund of vulnerable children in a difficult situation to sell below the price of their only building, which is also a home where up to 28 children can be placed? Isn't it better, in such an exceptional case, to sway the eye and lend a helping hand to the Fund for Endangered Children, on whose benefit to society do we agree? The whole situation is all the more complicated because it is the only Klokanka facility in the Pilsen Region, and the Fund for Endangered Children in this difficult situation provides assistance to almost 170 children in the Czech Republic. Madam Secretary, thank you for answering my questions and I ask you very much to take care of the case of these children, caring aunts and other employees of Klokanka, including in Janovice nad Úhlavou, and to prevent them from having to cease their activities at the end of February.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u137	Madam Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u138	Madam, as far as your interpelation is concerned, allow me to state the following: The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs announced a subsidy procedure in August 2019 for all ZDVOP operators for the purpose of partial financing, the deadline for submitting the application was 9 September 2019. The subsidy was received by 27 beneficiaries. The fund received almost CZK 8 million out of the total of CZK 18,5 million available. This means 8 out of a total of CZK 18.5 million. The mentioned ZDVOP Klokánek from Janovice nad Úhlava asked for an amount of CZK 325 980 in January to July and received the whole amount. I repeat, he received the full amount he asked for. They were also granted a state contribution from the Plzeň Region for the months of 2019 amounting to CZK 2 404 640. The kangaroo is one of the six ZDVOPs in the Pilsen Region and participates from 23 percent in the total capacity of these facilities in the region. In December last year, the Fund requested further funding, but it should be said that no call was made in December last year. I would like to point out that helping children in need is one of my key areas. After all, I also proposed an increase in these contributions in the current amendment on the social and legal protection of children so that we do not have to declare a tender for financing each year and that there is legal regulation. I must say that, in the long run, I have been communicating with President Zeman about helping FOD, and I have his full support in this matter. I have to say, the whole organization has funding problems. Therefore, its management decided that part of the necessary funds for the functioning of the FOD in addition to the state budget funds would ensure the sale of part of its assets. And the FOD management then chose the very building of Klokanka Janovice nad Úhlavou to sell itself among its assets. I would also like to say that the FOD was granted a state contribution of CZK 51 323 560 in 2019 under the Law on the Social Protection of Children. Moreover, and it is also important to say, the MPSV has long supported the FOD beyond the state contribution on the basis of the FOD request. In 2016 it was CZK 20 million, in 2017 it was CZK 12.8 million, in 2018 it was CZK 10 271 000 and in the last year it was almost CZK 8 million. As I mentioned, FOD also supports President Miloš Zeman, who contributes every year. This year he donated CZK 2 million to FOD and, overall, from 2015 he donated CZK 12.4 million to the fund. This means that the funding for these facilities is not at all low. As for the specific situation in Janovice nad Úhlavou, after we received the request, I commissioned the Deputy Minister of Government to go to Janovice nad Úhlavou and map the situation so that we could deal very intensively with it. However, it must be said and mentioned that I prefer a system solution through the amendment of the law. However, I am aware of the situation and very useful activities of the FOD and will try to resolve it as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u139	Thank you. The honourable Member is interested in an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u140	Madam Secretary, I would like to thank you very much for your helpful attitude. At the same time, I would like to say that I will convey it to this facility in our region, which has turned to me. I would also like to ask you to keep me informed of the next steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u141	Thank you. Madam Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u142	Yes, honourable Member. We will definitely inform through press releases of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. And I very much hope that I will have your support in this amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u143	And Mr. Vojtěch Munzar, who will bring his interpellation to the Minister of Health, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, the government has decided to double the fee for drawing mineral waters from CZK 6 per cube to CZK 12 per cube. In the proposal of the Ministry of Health, an increase to CZK 9 was originally proposed, but the government decided to double the fee. This is a charge for the maximum quantity authorised, not for the quantity actually collected, which is much lower, roughly one third. Therefore, the real and real impact of increasing the fee on one cc is much higher than 12 kroner. For neighbouring countries where the fee is calculated in the same way as in the Czech Republic, the limit quantity allowed, where it belongs, for example. Germany, so there is a rate of less than 9 crowns, in Poland less than 8 crowns, in Hungary 4 crowns. The envisaged rate of CZK 12 per cubicle significantly exceeds the fees in all neighbouring countries. There are 17 crowns in Slovakia, but there is a price for the quantity actually collected. We will thus have the highest fees far and wide, which puts Czech producers of mineral waters at a disadvantage compared to the foreign ones that are imported here. And it also puts mineral water at a disadvantage compared to other types of drinks. In doing so, we probably agree that mineral waters are certainly a healthy beverage, and I do not expect that the aim of the Ministry of Health was to reduce their consumption. So I want to ask you how and on the basis of what financial analysis the government has reached the sum of CZK 12 per cubicle. That's the first question. What is the real reason to increase the fee, because from the point of view of budgetary impact it is rather cosmetic, but you will definitely specify that. And what specifically will the increased revenue of the state budget be used for? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u145	Thank you and the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member, as far as the fee is concerned, it is also important to remember the genesis as it was with the fee. The fee was set for the first time in 2001, it's been quite a long time. And that's when it was 3 crowns per cubic meter. In 2001. Since then, it has not substantially increased for many, many years. It was only on the initiative of the Ministry of Finance in 2014 that there was an increase because, as I have information, it was argued that the fee had not really been increased for many years in the long term and the amount of the fee did not correspond to the actual importance and value of the raw material, the very high quality, quality water available to this country, because it is really our water that only business operators use for their business purposes. At that time, in 2014, the fee increased for the first time after many years to CZK 6 per cubic metre. And now there's been another increase. The Ministry proposed 9 crowns, eventually the government reached 12 crowns. But if we really look at the whole time since the initial imposition of the fee of CZK 3 in 2001 and today we are in 2019 and the fee is CZK 12, so when we take into account inflation and all other factors, I think that the gradual increase is simply legitimate and takes into account the real importance of the state's natural wealth, which is certainly mineral water. So that's actually how the government thought about it. And, of course, it's also a question of what the consequences are. I don't think the effects are somehow fatal, because really, when we look at it, the one-and-a-half-litre bottle increases the price by 6.75 cents. One-and-a-half-litre bottle of 6.75 pennies based on the increase in the fee. Is this some kind of major impact on the increase in mineral water? Will that lead to some kind of price increase? I really don't think so. It should be noted that there are currently seven production plants that produce bottled mineral water. There is undoubtedly competition, which is quite significant, which also holds the price at some level, and of course these entities, when you look at them, are really, and I do not resent them, it is legitimate, their profits are very significant and increase in time. They even merge with other companies, etc. So they also have resources for this. So I don't think there's any bad state progress if he wants to get more resources for his natural wealth and take into account the quality of mineral waters at the rate of that fee. As far as the surrounding countries are concerned, in principle, we are not in any significant position to go. If we look at Germany, 9 crowns, we have 12 crowns today. I don't think it's some sort of major detachment. But really, when we look at the conversion, the impact is minimal. And I do not really think that there should be any increase in mineral waters for the final consumer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u147	Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, you have the opportunity to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u148	Yes, thank you. Minister, first of all, I also believe that mineral water is not only used by business operators, but that it is mainly sought out by people who use it in their drinking regime. First of all. Secondly, inflation has not been fourfold since 2001. I suspected that the 12 crowns weren't based on any analysis I asked about. You were just saying about inflation, so I still suspect that the government just sucked it out of its finger, that you didn't do any analysis, because it's really higher than in all the other states. And those reasons - thank you for replying to me, because in your reply I heard clearly the government's struggle against domestic producers. However, this puts domestic producers at a disadvantage compared to foreign or possibly other producers of other types of water and beverages.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u149	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u150	I don't think so. Of course, we'll see in the real practice. But when I looked at the comments made by producers in 2014, when after a very long time there was an increase from three crowns to six crowns, then at that time also those producers, owners who are often not Czech, but are owned by foreign capital, but it doesn't matter, I don't want to accentuate it in any way, so they also threatened that there would be a massive increase in prices of mineral water for consumers etc. And in real practice, it didn't really bounce. So I believe that there is certainly no price for consumers, that simply these producers will have to pay more to the state. Yeah, a little bit. But again, 6.75 pennies on a 1-and-a-half-litre bottle, that's the increase we're talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u151	Another intervention is the interpellation of Mr Jakub Janda to the Minister of Education Robert Plaga. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u152	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, again and again, I have to interpel you on the issue of my club's grant program, for which your ministry is still very responsible. I have already asked you to correct the injustice that I believe your ministry has committed when it refused to pay out over 300 clubs because of one missing paper. However, it seems that you may have decided to put the sports organizations to the brink when you continue to enforce further bureaucracy after successful applicants in the form of compliance between the list of players listed in the application with the athletes' records. If the absurdity of this step and also the fact that this condition was not mentioned in the call for a grant title, you ask that this data be imported electronically only in CSV format, even under the threat of non-payment of the subsidy. Minister, I appeal to the judgment of the officials. Not every sports club chairman is an IT expert and is unable to study instructions and computer guides at night. Your ministry should be here for athletes, not athletes for the ministry. I ask you when you will abolish this bureaucratic measure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u153	Well, thank you. You will receive the answer in writing. Another interpelation is the interpellation of Mr Tomáš Martínek to the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u154	Dear Minister, I am interrogating you on replacing the existing paper highway coupons with an electronic blame system. Newly motorists will be able to buy new electronic highway signs in the e-shop and application. The system is to be provided by Asseco Central Europe. The selected company should be responsible for the construction of a system including the e-shop and application and consequently its operation by the end of 2024. In addition to the way in which the company was selected, i.e. that there was no public tender, I am interested in where the funds will go for individual payments by buyers, which will be collected by the e-shop, respectively. who will manage the money collected and how confident citizens are that money will not be spent inextricably and inefficiently, or even stolen. Based on the above, I would like to ask you: Where will the funds that will be collected by the e-shop go? Will they go to an account managed by the State or by the company? In the event that they go to the company's account, what measures did the State take to ensure that the company's funds are not discharged or lost in the event of a company's bankruptcy? At what interval should the funds be transferred to the account of the State, e.g. Every day, every month, every year? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u155	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Petr Beitl, who will bring his intervention to the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u156	Mr President, Minister, I am interested in moving forward with the International Investment Bank and the International Bank for Economic Cooperation. The item concerning the ratification of the Agreement establishing the International Investment Bank in order to move the Bank's headquarters from Moscow to Budapest was withdrawn from the meeting of the House on 17 October last year. The Senate's position on this point of 18 September is negative, and I think it is okay. The international investment bank is a Russian bank that was established in the time of the Warsaw Treaty. Although the situation in Europe has changed very fundamentally since then, the Czech Republic is still part of this bank, even though we are also in the EU and are bound by a common sanction procedure against the Russian Federation. This situation is schizophrenic. In addition, the bank, respectively. both banks, to this day serve the pro-Russian interests and support projects in particular in different areas of interest. Support in the Czech Republic also concerns companies that have Russian owners. The transfer of the bank's headquarters to Budapest, where it will be under diplomatic cover, is more than problematic in terms of money laundering and possibly espionage. I therefore ask why we are still members of the International Investment Bank. I also ask how this position of ours combines with compliance with the conditions of sanctions against Russia applied in connection with the prevention of Crimea. Another question is whether you have dealt with this problem with the Hungarian party in the context of a V4 meeting and what concrete steps you have already taken in line with government policy and the call of the Foreign Committee of the Senate to withdraw the Czech Republic from the International Bank for Economic Cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u157	Thank you, too. Let me read the apologies quickly. Mr Radek Koten apologizes from 14:30 to 17:00 and apologizes to the Minister of the Environment from 17:00 to the end, for working reasons in both cases. I will ask Mr Karel Rais, who will give an interview to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u158	Thank you. Madam Secretary, at the beginning of December last year, we all received the so-called Parliamentary Members. an open letter from teachers at the Úpice Elementary School, with the content agreed by the municipal authority, which was presented by the mayor. I'm sure you got this letter, too, or your employees, but for time reasons, I can't quote it here. The core of the letter is a sense of helplessness and, above all, concerns about the future that led the writer to write this letter. The number of families in which parents do not work is growing, and children have been raised in this spirit since the earliest years. In short, we have a generation of sloppy people, non-payers, people who don't want to or will not follow any rules. The situation in excluded localities is serious. In general, it is of course necessary for both ministries to cooperate effectively, both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. In my opinion, the social administration should work substantially more closely with schools and, in the event of neglect of education, adequately reduce social benefits to the parents of these children. If we want to get a quick and effective remedy, then I see no other than financial pressure on the parents of these inadaptable children. And at least I'd like to hear from you, Madam Secretary, the answers to two questions from that quoted letter. The first is - why the state pays high social benefits to people who are not trying to work and who are inadequately caring for their children. And the other is why you can't touch the money from the social benefits in recovering debts and debts. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u159	Now, the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u160	Dear Member, thank you for your question, for your interpellation. These days, the so-called "interview" commentary procedure ends. the dose revision package. I would like to point out that it is precisely the proposal that children will not have compulsory school attendance, so they will be able to take away their parents - that is what the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs proposes - housing benefits. At this point, we are proposing a penzo 100 hours, but this does not concern the number of missed hours for medical reasons. Why do I suggest this? I'm under a lot of pressure because of this measure. The reason is clear. You mentioned excluded locations. In Chanov, for example, children have an average of 160 missed hours per semester. There are 14 percent of children in the Ústí Region without completed schooling. Over the last ten years, the number of excluded sites has tripled, and I think that the continuation of current policy, unfortunately, is likely to lead to further deterioration. However, I do not think that this problem should be addressed only by repression. However, after very lengthy several months of discussions, especially at the Coalition Council, when the Ministry of Education does not see this problem as a burning one - it does not perceive it as a burning one - I have taken this measure. At the same time, however, I would like to say that the package for the revision of benefits has 23 measures overall, and most of them are heading towards social prevention. There is a fundamental strengthening of systemically social work in the municipalities, because this is what we think is the key to ensuring that poverty and social exclusion are not passed on from generation to generation. But why do I approach this measure - with which, and I would like to say, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports disagrees, has made a fundamental comment against it. Because I don't want kids to be robbed of their future. I really wish that children in excluded localities had at least completed primary school attendance so that they could continue working with them, because I think that is a great priority. And because the other departments that have it in their competence do not address this issue and basically these children - and we talk about about about thousands of children in each year, i.e. A thousand children each year who will have no future because they do not have completed primary school attendance, so we have taken this measure. But I don't just want to promote repression. I want to strengthen social work in a fundamental way, I want to work with these families, we want to - all the experts at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs agreed on this - there was agreement within the group on 15 measures to combat poverty, but at the same time because I drive a lot in regions, I drive a lot of excluded localities... We need motivation for parents to send their children to school. However, I am ready for discussion because the situation is very sensitive and emotional, but it is at the heart that poverty and social exclusion are not passed on to the next and the next generations. These kids are getting bigger, and I think it's so unfair that these kids have no chance of a future since they were kids.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u161	Thank you. The Member wishes to raise an additional question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u162	That's not even gonna... First of all, I would like to thank you, because I agree with the content of the matter, of course. I think that this needs to be dealt with in some way. I think - we're going to have to deal with this on the school committee, or I'm going to use this opinion you've read now, so I'm going to more or less use it as a basis for responding to the school committee's response towards the Úpici primary school. I think it would also be interesting to follow the idea of positive discrimination if those kids just go there, because not everyone is just excused and not all of them are bad in quotes, so if there's no point in giving the welfare benefit back. What do you say?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u163	Then the secretary will respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u164	We were also concerned about this idea. Basically, we rejected her because then there would be bits on all the families who automatically send the kids to school. A systemic measure would have to be taken. However, for example, a year ago, when we considered introducing lunch free of charge to schools, this was actually motivated by increasing school attendance in excluded localities. Because I know from experience, and I visited a school in the Bronx myself a few years ago in New York, where, with the help of various interventions, but especially providing food three times a day, they fundamentally changed the success and attendance of all the children at this school. There's just been an incredible turnaround. And the main motive was to provide public services free of charge for these children, and they felt positive about the school. At the same time, they liked to go there, their school results improved, etc. etc. Suddenly, they had a future. But I am willing to discuss this on the school committee, too, because the purpose of this measure is for those children to have a future. And without completion of primary schooling, they won't have one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u165	Thank you. One apology. Mr Ondřej Profant apologizes for working reasons from 5:30 p.m. And now, interpelation in order for the thirty-seventh. Mr Jakub Michálek will present his interview to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u166	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I ask you, Madam Secretary, what condition is the launch of an electronic file in the Czech judiciary, which is one of the instruments that could significantly accelerate the decision-making of our courts, so that, for example, we do not have to wait to see if it is delivered to any expedition, it is sent from the expedition to the post office, etc. These are all things that can be automated through an electronic file. I am aware that there has been a visit to our neighbors in Germany with Dr. Springr, where the Ministry has examined the possibilities of using the electronic file. I know that a contract is being prepared, and I would like the Minister to publicly describe what the timetable is, when they are planning to launch an electronic file on Czech courts, or what pilot programs will be, if it will be deployed in the entire insolvency proceedings, when there will be approximately testing operation and when there will be a sharp operation, if she has conducted negotiations with the Ministry of Interior on the standardisation of the electronic file with regard to the national standard of electronic filing services and, where appropriate, what their outcome is, so that the Ministry of Justice is already based on some recognised standard and does not build the system entirely on green meadows.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u167	Thank you. Another interpelation is the interpellation of Mr Vojtěch Munzar to the Minister of Industry Karel Havlíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u168	vážený Vice Prime Minister, recently the Prime Minister said that he would negotiate in Europe for nuclear energy to be recognised as a clean source of energy, as well as guarantees that the Czech Republic could complete its nuclear power plants. Nuclear energy has not become clean and we do not have any guarantees that the European Commission will agree to the construction of new blocks. In the European Council, they merely stated that some countries have nuclear energy as part of their energy mix. And now even the European Parliament has not included nuclear energy among clean sources. The sentence from the European Council seems a little small to me, although I understand that negotiations are not easy. Yet you agreed to a huge commitment to carbon neutrality by 2050, which will cost our state and our citizens hundreds of billions of crowns. Unfortunately, you have not acted uncompromisingly and have actually resigned from negotiating the promised exemption. This means that we will have worse conditions for financing this energy. There is a risk that the Czech Republic will be forced to leave existing resources within a few years, but we may not have anything to replace them with. What will you do next to ensure a stable energy supply for the Czech Republic? What's the next move? And how can you ensure that you have enough time to secure and monitor the tender for the construction of new blocks of Czech nuclear power plants when you are also Minister of Transport and Minister of Industry and Trade today? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u169	Thank you, too. Another intervention is the interpellation of Mr Vít Kaňkovský to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u170	Good afternoon, Mr President, Minister, colleagues. I am given an iron regularity initiative from the citizens of the Vysočina Region, from various parts of the Vysočina Region, which relate to the lack of dental care. I would like to point out that this is no longer just a matter for the Highlands, but that the initiatives, and I think that not only I, the Highlands Member, but also other Members, are receiving from citizens across the Czech Republic, it is by far not just the most rural regions and border areas, but it also applies to inland areas. I would like to ask you, Minister, whether you see the situation as serious as I see it. And I would like to ask you what measures you are taking in this regard. I know you've already represented some of them. It's mostly the longer term, which means taking more students to the medical school just to the dental direction that you've written some kind of grant title for a new ambulance. But these citizens are asking now, at the moment, what to do when in their region, not only in their community, but even in their district city, they were not able to get a dentist for emergency intervention, when they repeatedly approached their health insurance company, and yet they did not get dental care, virtually. Sometimes they got to it, but only in the form of directly paid care, that is, with a dentist who doesn't have a contract with a health insurance company. So, Minister, I want to ask you what measures, the short-term ones, in this regard you are planning and what you advise us to say to citizens in this context. How are we supposed to answer them when they ask us these questions? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u171	Thank you. Mr Profant has already apologized, so his interpellation is failing. Minister Metnar informed me that Mrs Černochová... You are! Sorry. Please, Minister. Next. So 40 and 41 won't be. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u172	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, I am still here. I'm glad for that. And I'm glad to ask you that question, Mr. Kaňkovský's interpellation. I'm serious about this. And I see it seriously, because, of course, we're watching the situation, too, we're not blind. I am also being approached by citizens, and we really see the situation as being the biggest problem today in terms of the question of time and local availability. This also follows from the data available to us. We have checked all health insurance companies with regard to how they comply with the obligation to ensure the time and local availability of health services, and on this basis we have launched a new interactive form on the web, where insured people can very easily access the form that will thus generate the program for them and can complain about the inaccessibility of care for their health insurance undertaking, which is automatically sent to them. And if we look at the statistics so far, we've received 548 complaints, and of that, 458 complaints are about the availability of dental science. That means the vast majority of those complaints at least on a small sample like this are related to dentistry. For the other expertise, they're units, a little bit more with practical doctors, but it still doesn't reach that much. [[17.40 hours]] So, in general, it's a problem. From my point of view, it's a thing that's unfortunately been neglected here for a long time. When you neglect something for many years, it is of course very difficult to change from day to day, perhaps even from year to year. But we're not resigning, we're working on it with health insurance companies. If we look at the development of payments to dentistry in the last two years, there is a significant increase, including this year when more than a billion crowns will go into dentistry. And so, as the payment decree for this year is actually set up, it's really supposed to motivate dentists to take care of registered insured people because the payment is linked to the registration of insured persons. There are also new performances for patients with autistic spectrum disorder, with psychiatric diagnosis. There's a new performance, it's called sedation, it means calming the baby down with tomato gas, and so on. That's something new that hasn't been paid for here at all. So there's a whole series of measures that really aim to support dentists. We are working closely on this with the Czech Stomatological Chamber, which is involved and participated, of course, in the preparation of these changes in payments. So we're doing a lot for this both on the payment side and, of course, on the side, as you said, the students in terms of education, but also in terms of the subsidy program. That's probably the fastest option, let's say. And I have to say, there's quite an interest in the grant program. We have already started 25 offices in the total amount of almost 29 million crowns. We have CZK 100 million prepared for subsidies for new dental practice. Here's the map. Specifically, in the Highlands, the number of subsidies is relatively large compared to other regions. And you can see that really - it is not visible - but we are targeting regions such as Ústí Region, Moravian-Silesian Region, border areas and Vysočina. One of them is, for example, Havlíčkův Brod, where one dentist's office was supported in this way. So the interest is still there. Just recently we approved other subsidies - Turnov, Svitavy, Nový Bor, Volyně. So it's bigger cities, and we're working on it. This is one way to actually ensure care, because within the framework of the subsidy, the dentist who makes use of the subsidy - it is CZK 1.2 million for five years - must undertake to register at least 1,500 insured persons within three years to provide services to children, seniors, that he will conclude a contract with at least four health insurance companies. So this is the way we want to go. We've got the money ready for this, and we're granting it. But as I'm saying, if something's been neglected here for a long time, then they have to systematically work on it with health insurance companies, we're doing it. And I believe that the measures that are being reflected in this year's payment decree will emerge in time. After all -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u173	Time, Minister. Well, thank you. The Member wants to complete his question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u174	I thank the Minister for his answers, and I appreciate that the Ministry is taking action in this regard. However, I would like to ask about the cooperation with the Czech Stomatological Chamber. Because if I and some of my colleagues could have dealt with the president of the dentist's chamber as well as the representatives of the dentist's chamber, I must say that on their part it was very lukewarm and in places up to a little - I don't know what to call it a decent word. Basically, they laughed a little bit, operated on numbers that we had the largest number of dentists per population. But, frankly, that doesn't satisfy the citizen. He needs to know if when he needs emergency care, he'll actually get to the dentist at least a little bit of an available distance. So I'd like to ask you about the communication with the dentist's chamber, as well as the clarification of the exact payments. Because they say, "We have some performances that are underpaid, so we don't want to do them." And then there is one question that citizens ask a lot, and that is the employment of dentists or dentists from other countries, that they would welcome them in some areas, and the dental chamber sometimes places too much barriers on it. Well, I'd like to ask that as an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u175	Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u176	Thank you again for the floor. I just wanted to add very briefly that the VZP recently presented that 11 600 people received a new dentist thanks to the increase in payments since July last year. So just to actually say that this also has some effect, raising payments. And really this year, this increase in payments is significant, it is in total over one billion crowns, 1.3 billion crowns. And insurance companies have a clear obligation to ensure the availability of time and locality, and they can do it with some kind of boniification, which means really supporting those practices that are in remote areas. This is, in fact, the current policy of both the Ministry and the health insurance policy, including the General Health Insurance Corporation, supporting primary care, including dentistry, which includes practical doctors, taking into account regional differences, bondage within some border areas, worse available areas and so on. So we're working on it, and I believe that the remuneration will increase significantly this year based on these measures. It comes from arguing with dentists themselves, who - you are right - pointed out that a number of performances are simply not worth doing because it doesn't cover the cost of material. But in the current year, the increase is objectively there, and I believe it will also lead to some motivation. Because of course it is clear that there are many more patients in those regions who need to be treated so-called insurance. That means, there I think even the dentist can't be as selective as somewhere in the center of Prague. Otherwise, as far as the chamber is concerned, of course, I know some opinions, but I think they are a correct partner, and we continue to work with them on this concept. So I wouldn't want to quite blame the co-operation with the chamber here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u177	Thank you. Now, as I mentioned, Mr Profant has already apologized, Mrs Černochová has also announced that she will not bring her intervention. So next up is Mr. Petr Bendl with an interview with the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u178	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The remaining colleagues and colleagues, I have a simple question. This year's winter is very mild, it doesn't look like any significant frosts are coming, and it is quite obvious that this year or last year, the multiplied field vole will gain many times more strength and do many times more damage. For some farmers, this literally means existential worries. I have already intersected you, Minister, in this matter in the past, so I would like to ask whether you have made progress and whether you have already given at least a single individual or individual permit for chemical intervention against the field voles somewhere in at least the most affected areas, because there is a disaster this year. Thank you for your information on whether you have made progress or whether the negative opinion of the Ministry of the Environment lasts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u179	Thank you. Interpelation will be answered in writing. Next in line is Mr Marek Výborný with an interview with Minister Karel Havlíček. I don't see him in the hall. Isn't that right? There is also Mrs Richterová's interpellation, and I do not see here in the hall either. Then, Mrs Golasowská, with an interview with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u180	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, the Czech Republic is experiencing domestic violence every tenth child, i.e. two to three in the school class. According to MPSV statistics, about 2.5 thousand children suffer from serious domestic violence each year. Only from January to August last year, six children were abused. Then thousands more are helpless witnesses of violence most often committed by a father or a companion on a mother. Only a tiny fraction of children reach early specialist assistance. Even for all the most serious cases, there is no adequate form of assistance. It takes a year to six years for children from affected families to receive professional help. By that time, it is traumatic, professionally unworked experience can negatively affect the rest of your life. [[17.50 hours]] The situation is trying to change the project Childhood without violence, specifically the centre of Locika, which cooperates with, for example, Tereza Maxová and others. This centre specializes in working with children at risk of domestic violence and also with the whole family. At the same time, CZK 80 million would suffice to solve the problems of 2.5 thousand registered children at risk of domestic violence. For example, this state-supported service has already succeeded for a year in Slovakia and has been a matter of course in the West for many years. Madam Secretary, I want to ask you whether the MPSV will deal with the financing of aid to children, victims of domestic violence, not only for this centre, but also for the whole republic, so that such centres can provide assistance to children, victims of domestic violence, throughout the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u181	Thank you, too, and the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u182	Madam, thank you for your interpellation. To your question, I would like to say that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has long supported preventive and support projects in support of families and children, through the Family subsidy title, which was established in 2005 and was currently increased by 20 percent year-on-year to CZK 120 million for 2020. Within this MPSV programme, organisations, non-profit organisations, which, among other things, implement activities relating to the prevention of violence in families and promote positive parenting. Specifically, families in crisis are engaged in a subsidy sub-area called Support for work with children and families in the field of social law protection, where physical and legal persons in charge of the exercise of social protection are supported, which offer, inter alia, support for the development of parental competences in the field of education and childcare in families who have already entered the register of vulnerable children. Their situation is already being addressed by the institutions of social-law protection of children, see - I can then tell you the individual amounts, how they are financially in the framework of the individual organisation's subsidy programme and what amounts they have received in recent years. The activities in question are very important in the vicinity of families, where they can work with their families in crisis or act in such a way as to avoid violence in families in general, or, on the contrary, help to detect such cases before escalation through the support of the community. It is also important to say that a government campaign was launched in 2009 Stop violence on children running continuously, and also in recent years a National Strategy for Preventing Violence on Children in the Czech Republic for the years 2008 to 2018 and an Action Plan for Preventing Domestic and Genderly Conditioned Violence for the same years. In connection with this topic, we recommend you to contact the Office of the Government, which has this issue in gesture. Currently, the MPSV prepares a working group on the issue of primary prevention and family work, in line with the measures outlined in the concept of family policy. The working group will be established during the first half of this year and we assume representation of both organisations working directly with families in the field, such as the Family Network, the Association of Marriage and Family Meetings, and representatives of the state administration who are closely concerned. This means, in addition to representatives of MPSV also representatives of the already mentioned Office of the Government, Ministry of Education, but also of the Ministry of Health. If you're interested, then I can give you the individual amounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u183	Thank you. The honourable Member is interested in an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u184	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answer. I work with the OSPOD myself, so I know how it works. I also cooperate with the social activation service for families with children, whose purpose is to provide actually or work with the family and also act preventively. My question was whether the MPSV is preparing some specific support for the centers for children who are already going through the traumas that have actually been through the domestic violence, because I still think there is insufficient financial appreciation or financial allocation for the centres that would have therapists and psychologists for children and for working with the family. Because it's really - I think it takes quite a bit of money. Because to get an expert today who maybe has a practice, whether he's a therapist or a psychologist, it's all about money. So it wasn't about the precautionary job, and for the family work, where it's not just domestic violence, but a lot of other things, it was more about the follow-up job. This means working with a child who has been traumatized by domestic violence, whether it itself has been physically abused or has actually had psychological trauma from witnessing domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u185	So, Madam Secretary can answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u186	So that I may answer, that we should not delay, because the Members here are dealing with this. So I think that just what I said was that increasing the family's grant title, where these families work, by 20 percent, is quite a big step. There's been an increase under my command after, I guess, 13 years. That means it's really progress. And as for the work, as you specifically mentioned, we are already in the amendment to the Social Services Act, which is being conducted by inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, or I suspect that today it is even coming, and there we have also introduced a number of activities to help children who are victims of domestic violence. It's for a separate discussion. I'd love to, if you're interested, let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-008-292.u187	Well, thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure of the last interview, it can be delivered no later than 17.55 hours, so thank you all. I am of the opinion that we have closed the oral questioning for today's meeting. At the same time, I will conclude today's meeting day and the meeting will continue tomorrow at 9.00 a.m. according to the approved agenda. Good evening, everyone.
