ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-004-513.u1	513. Government bill amending Act No. 182/2006 Coll., on bankruptcy and its solutions (Insolvency Act), as amended /German press 1073/ - shortened negotiations But before we deal with this press, we would, according to §99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. I will open the debate at this point. It is a debate, please, only for a brief hearing. And of course you can get out. So, Mr. Výborný. I'm just pointing out... [[Minister Benešová: I am aware that this is for a brief hearing.]] Yes, for a brief hearing. So, the secretary gets off first, then the rapporteur gets off. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-004-513.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Justice has prepared this important law in response to the adopted EU directive on restructuring and insolvency, and we consider the law to be extremely important and necessary. As far as the state of legislative emergency is concerned, I was aware when the law went through the government that it was a border case where it could therefore be discussed whether it was appropriate to discuss it in a legislative emergency or whether it was already over the edge. On 10. 11. 2020 has adopted the constitutionally-legal committee's recommendations and considered that it is therefore beyond the threshold and that there is no need to discuss it within this shortened period, and I respect that decision. However, since I consider the law to be very important and I care for it to pass during this parliamentary term, I would just like to ask that the time limits be shortened as proposed by the constitutionally-legal committee and that you prefer it in terms of its further development. Otherwise, I do not insist on the legislative emergency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-004-513.u3	Yes, thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Marek Výborný, rapporteur. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-004-513.u4	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, thank you for the floor. I wish you a good day and I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. I'll add my brief commentary to that. The Constitutional and Legal Committee, as sent to it by the President of the House, discussed the draft law at its extraordinary meeting on November 10 at its 72nd meeting and adopted the following resolution: Following the reasoning of Deputy Minister of Justice Michal Franěk, Mr Marek Výborný's report and after the debate of the Constitutional Legal Committee I. Notes that the conditions of the state of legislative emergency in accordance with Section 99 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are not fulfilled in order to discuss the House's 1073 press; II. recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies discuss the standard legislative process within a short period of time under the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. So much of the resolution, which is a recommendation - stating and recommending - here is the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to briefly justify this resolution, as has finally been shown by the debate at the constitutionally legal committee. Paragraph 99 of the Rules of Procedure actually states - I quote literally paragraph 1: "In exceptional circumstances, when fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state are significantly threatened or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage, the President of the House shall declare, on a proposal from the Government, a state of legislative emergency for a certain period." It is quite obvious here, I really stand by the fact that, as the Minister said, behind the edge, these conditions laid down in paragraph 99 of the Rules of Procedure are not fulfilled. Please nicely, there is no dispute at all about this, and we are in agreement with the Minister and the Government, and I would say, from the debate that took place on the constitutionally-legal committee, mostly agree that this is a very important amendment, but this amendment really needs to be discussed in a proper legislative process, because she responds to the aggravated situation as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, but it will obviously have long-term consequences, long-term consequences. It's not a novel that's for six months, but it'll be valid for the next few years, of course. It is important, but we must discuss it properly, there must also be room for a proper parliamentary debate, there must also be room for amendments to be prepared, which cannot be written on the knee overnight. The amendments, too, deserve a debate. I am ready as chairman of the subcommittee on the issue of enforcement, insolvency and debt relief to convene the subcommittee without delay, and also with the representatives of the petitioner, the Ministry of Justice, the amendment and any adjustments in the form of a broader amendment, but, as I say, the substantive intention, the substantive objective which ultimately comes from the implementation of the European directive to which the Czech Republic is obliged, or in response to it, we want to fulfil it. I will stress that the resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee talks about the short-term, so I am prepared to propose this as rapporteur. Otherwise, we must at the moment, unless the House, as a sovereign, supports legislative emergency negotiations, as proposed by the constitutionally-legal committee, it is not possible to continue negotiations at first reading today, because the deadline is not met. The government has discussed the bill on 4 November, and the deadline is 10 days. It's Saturday. I assume that this Saturday the Chamber of Deputies will not act, that this is the agreement of the members of the MPs. I'm looking at Chairman Faltýnek. Are we going to negotiate on Saturday, Mr. Chairman? Through Mr President. [[He's laughing.]] We won't. So we cannot vote on Saturday at first reading this amendment, and therefore it will have to be discussed with a firm inclusion, and I hope that it will be a Grimary proposal, then in the week of the next session of the Chamber of Deputies in December, and then precisely according to the House's timetable, we will reduce the deadlines so that a proper second reading can take place in January, then a third reading, and we can move this to the Senate's soil. I think that's right. Among other things, we eliminate the risk of any objections of the Constitutional Court, such as the fact that there are already existing findings of the Constitutional Court, which have expressed precisely the extent of the limitations of parliamentary debate, in the end, and I think it would be wrong to proceed in this way. So much for me and the justification for the resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. I join in what the Secretary of State said, and please the House, in order not to support the state of legislative emergency in this case, we will proceed with the intentions of what I have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-004-513.u5	Thank you. Does anyone else, please, report to the debate on the accelerated negotiations? No one is applying to the debate. [[Objection, notice that Mrs Valachová is reporting.]] Yes. I'm sorry. Is this an application for a debate on the law itself, not for a brief hearing? If the honourable Member is applying, I will, of course, give her my word. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-004-513.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I would like to comment on whether or not the conditions of the legislative emergency are met. The Constitutional Committee recommended to the House what was described by the rapporteur, and the Minister announced that it was ready to adopt this recommendation. However, this does not in itself mean that the government has not done what it has done, which means that I have sent this amendment in the context of a legislative emergency, and I have the opposite view here as rapporteur. As far as fundamental rights and freedoms are concerned, they are undoubtedly affected by this law. As far as the economic effects are concerned, they are also, in my view, affected, and the same with regard to the findings of the Constitutional Court which he has made in the past, so it is important to reiterate that there was, of course, the importance of a time point of view, that is true that Members and Members should have the opportunity to get acquainted with the bills, but I would like to say that in this case the insolvency law has been discussed by the government whether I am wrong, a week ago. And I would also like to say that we have been discussing, from the point of view of emergency since spring of this year, almost I would say, two drafts of laws sent here in the afternoon or in the evening, and the next morning the committees are meeting. I am just saying this for the sake of order that this is a practice that we, as the Chamber of Deputies, have accepted in the long term, and I think it is important to draw attention to this. As far as insolvency law is concerned, I fully agree with the Minister that it should be discussed within a short period of time, and I note that I have consulted the House's legislation on whether, in connection with the current decision on legislative emergency, we can, or cannot, adopt a resolution, accompanying a resolution to actually do so. Unfortunately, we can't do that, or it will definitely not be binding, because we can always shorten deadlines in those specific acts of first, second and third reading. However, I would like to report for myself that I will propose a possible special meeting in the event of further discussion, and of course I call on you, if you are seriously in favour of this being discussed in time, so that you support this extraordinary meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-004-513.u7	Thank you. Mr Marek Benda has signed up for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-004-513.u8	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I was hoping that this would be quite consensual, as was consensual on the part of the constitutional-legal committee. Unfortunately, social democracy of peace sometimes exaggerates its populism, this time through the mouth of the vice-chairman of the club. This is a press that does not really meet any of the parameters of legislative emergency. I just want to be clear about this. I also had a problem in some of the previous cases with what was discussed in the House, what was hidden behind the legislative emergency, for example in the spring of Airbnb, which I think had absolutely nothing to do with the crisis, but it was simply approved and accepted by the House. In this case, it is a bill whose effectiveness is to be 1. 7th next year. It has nothing to do with the coronation or the state of emergency. It's just an attempt to hide under this emergency and discuss something quickly. I agree that the matter is to be discussed quickly, far from being as simple and trivial as has been said so far. This is simply a very complex problem, which, of course, seems to be noble, that someone's deadlines for insolvency proceedings are being reduced, at the same time, it means that, of course, all those creditors will be reduced by their debt, sometimes to a very high extent! I've been crying all the time about how the poor people owe me and the bad creditors, I have to say, they're getting more and more angry. Each of those debtors borrowed something somewhere, and each of those debtors didn't pay off. In the old days, the rule used to apply when I didn't pay, I pay double or even four times. Here we are pretending that the rule should start to apply if I can't pay, I'll pay 5 percent, 7 percent, and we'll keep saying how little the debtor has to pay. Doesn't seem right to me. And I just wanted to ask that this House really, in this case, allow a normal debate on this press and do not rush into short proceedings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-004-513.u9	Mr Marek Výborný, then Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-004-513.u10	Thank you for the floor. I will not develop a constitutional debate on the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. However, I want to respond to one thing and to what my colleague Kateřina Valachová said. For those of you who sit here, please, there's no way of letting go. The Government has submitted a draft law with effect from 1. 7. 2021. I've been calling for a shorter deadline and so on. So there is really no danger that we would not be able to discuss the law in such a way as to take effect on 1 July 2021. I'm saying it right. So maybe it's useless, irrelevant, the debate we're having here. It'll just happen in the standard legislative process and period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-004-513.u11	Mrs Kateřina Valachová, with a factual point or a debate? It doesn't matter, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-004-513.u12	Thank you, Mr President. There is no way that this is about social democracy or my populism. I've only described what this practice has been like since spring. And all I care about is that, as the House, when we decide on these things, we measure them all on the same subway. I don't see anything populist about that. As far as the date of effectiveness is concerned on 1 July, I believe it can be confirmed that the government has only decided at the Government's meeting on legislative emergency. And in this situation, there was no correction of the date. This, of course, could be resolved very quickly from the point of view of the current resolution on legislative emergency and subsequently on resolution. So let's not refer to that date, please. 7. The government did not decide on a legislative emergency until the government discussed it. So the government sent us a legislative emergency consciously after the debate. And this isn't a thing that can't be fixed at the moment. Please do not argue that this is a matter that can be postponed until 1 July. And as for what has been happening since the emergency since spring, or in the context of repeated emergency conditions, I believed in the spring that when COVID I - Justice was presented, there was a series of execution changes that would help not only debtors but also creditors. Madam Secretary of Justice suggested it. At that time, as Members, we have removed these changes and said, we will deal with this in the framework of a large execution package and we will manage it in June. It sounded like it was here at the plenary. The result is that there's nothing! And I'm just worried that the same shouldn't happen in the case of insolvency law. For this reason, I am completely factual, and I am not leading any constitutional controversy here, showing what practice has been so far, and I have also shown solutions, and I have announced that I will seek an extraordinary meeting. The debate is factual, not populist. And I have nothing more to say to her. The House will decide by vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-004-513.u13	Thank you. President Jakub Michálek has joined the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-004-513.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment on this bill and on the legislative emergency. We have about 800,000 people in executions here, and now we know that 50 percent of our employees are losing their income as a result of the coronavirus pandemic, so the situation is very serious. And I think that when the government, for example, has scrambled the businessmen, prevented them from running their business, took away their source of earnings, so now they're begging to go bankrupt quickly, it seems to me that it's really inadequate. So I was going to appeal to us to discuss the bill as quickly as possible. I think that the government, as it presented it, and the effective date, we could even move forward to approve and become more efficient, because it is clear that if we set more favourable insolvency conditions, then go ahead and do it 1. 7. it will be a large part of people postponed to reach more favourable conditions. I just wanted to say that we should be cautious, and when we examine the various proposals sent to us by banks, insurance companies and other big creditors, so that we do not approve of the legislative emergency, so that we do not extend the time limits to discuss this thoroughly - certainly, it must be discussed thoroughly, but not at the expense of helping these people. To follow up on my colleague Benda, who said that there used to be a practice to pay four times the debt, he did not specify when it was. However, in ancient Rome, the rule was that accessories could not exceed the principal amount, that interest did not rise to the principal amount. And this is the rule that was taken over by the general code of civil law, which was in force in Austria-Hungary. So the situation that was paid instead of ten times the principal, so it occurred here rather as a result of the bad execution scheme that was introduced here in the past. And I think that's a practice that no one is really defending nowadays, and that the ten-fold certainty that a fence who buys debts should be left to Viktor Kožený's era. There was a security ten times that. And I hope we've gotten through this, and I hope we never get back into it. While I know that a legislative emergency will not be approved in the bill, I will at least support it symbolically, because it is a matter that should actually be discussed very quickly, and in this discussion we will push for the maximum speed up of deadlines so that it can be done and ideally become effective even before the government has proposed it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-004-513.u15	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. Before we proceed to the vote, I have called in Members and Members who are not in the Chamber. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 182/2006 Coll., on bankruptcy and its solutions, as amended, House Press 1073, in a shortened hearing." [[insolvency law]] Checkout request. I checked you all out. Please log in with your cards again. And now we're going to vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 284, 83 Members signed in for 26, against 22. I state that the proposal has not been approved. And since the deadline of 10 days from the delivery of the bill has not been respected, we cannot deal with this press. There's a point next.
