ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u1	11. The draft law amending Act No. 23/2017 Coll., on Rules of Budget Responsibility, as amended by Act No. 277/2019 Coll. House print 812/3/ - rejected by the Senate The resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered as House press 812/4. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u2	Mr President, Members of the Government, fellow Members, as I announced yesterday, I propose that we allow the President of the National Budget Board to take part in the debate so that she can participate and speak in our debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u3	Thank you. I will immediately vote on the presence of another person. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. We are voting on the possibility of the President of the National Budget Board. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 52, 178 Members registered, in favour of 171, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I now welcome Mr. Senator - Senator Goláň will continue? Senator Vilímec isn't here. Did I get that right? I will now ask the Vice-President of the Government and Finance Minister Alena Schillerová to speak for the plaintiff for the Senate resolution on the rejection of this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, please remain calm in the hall! If you have a solution, go to the lobby. Allow your colleagues to perform. [[It's ringing with a bell.]] Please, you have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me once again introduce to you the bill amending the Act on the rules of budgetary responsibility. We are debating the proposal now because the preparatory phase of the state budget for 2021 and its medium-term outlook starts in April. By the end of this month, expenditure frameworks for the next three docks must be approved in accordance with the law. Without the adoption of an amendment to the law, we would have to proceed to consolidation, which would be unprecedented in the history of the Czech Republic. Only income will be missing next year -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, once again I ask for peace of mind!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u6	Only income will be missing at least 140 billion next year. Crowns. I emphasise the word at least because the independent Committee on Budgetary Forecasts stated in its opinion on Monday that it considered the decline in revenue to be optimistic. The economic downturn and its consequences are far more dramatic. In addition to all of this, we will add higher spending on social benefits due to economic development or the additional effects of this year's recession, and we are coming to even higher order. Compared to the medium-term outlook approved last year, it would either mean cutting expenditure by at least 150 billion. CZK or increase taxes by that amount. I regard both from an economic point of view as a flawed step. Such an irrational economic policy should not be allowed by any competent government and parliament. This year, we are approving one measure after another, which is designed to dampen the health and economic consequences of this crisis as much as possible, and in the next year, by tightening the belts, we would cause a second recession. This would not only be counterproductive, but entirely against the logic of smoothing the business cycle. It wouldn't help anyone, people, companies, and eventually public finances. [[9.20 hours]] The Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility is ideal for the current cyclical fluctuations in the economy in the part focused on state budget spending, but, at a time of rapid decline, when trends are breaking and the consequences of the recession are being transferred to the next few years, it forces excessive fiscal restrictions. [[He turns to the President:]] I can't do that. [[The President is ringing the bell to settle the peace.]] The European Commission is also aware of this. That is why at the end of March, for the first time in history, it proposed to activate a general escape clause from the European fiscal rule. This allowed a temporary departure from the Member States' medium-term budgetary targets. It thus opened up the scope for managing the emergency situation of this year and the potential future consequences. The space we use by this amendment to the Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility. Unlike our budget board, the European Fiscal Council stated in its opinion of March this year that the general exit clause should be used in its entirety for such a shock and also recalls that the consequences of the financial crisis ten years ago were characterised by deep cuts in public investment. Instead, the European Fiscal Council supports the pace of consolidation in line with the rate of recovery, which leaves room for the protection and strengthening of national public spending supporting growth. In this respect, the European Fiscal Council calls for the opportunity offered by the current historically low interest rates. The proposal for an amendment that I am translating here creates conditions that will allow our country a gradual but continuous return to its medium-term budgetary objective. The speed and length of consolidation have been selected in full compliance with EU rules. Most EU countries will use the same degree of consolidation. However, unlike us, they do not have to accept the amendment to the national law at all. In fact, they are enshrined in national legislation that gradual, year-round consolidation towards the medium-term budgetary objective is not only possible but also desirable. We don't. We wanted to be more papal than the Pope. Probably because the constitutional support of the law was sought here at the time, from which it eventually came. Whether it was intent or not, I don't want to speculate. However, this unconventionally strict restriction remains that a full return to the medium-term budgetary objective must take place immediately next year. And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to correct this situation. Some of you are suggesting whether we can even afford a temporary release of the rules. Given the overall level of government debt, which has fallen below 31 percent of GDP and is one of the lowest among developed countries, I have no doubt that the Czech public finances will bear the short-term stimulus of the economy. When else will we use the years of surplus public finances and low debt than it is now in this unprecedented crisis? Not accepting an amendment would only mean a path of drastic fiscal restrictions and another economic downturn. Let us remember the period ten years ago. As a country, we have our negative experiences on the way out of the crisis through strong fiscal consolidation. As a result, we went through debt recession, unemployment increased by 60 percent, the social distress of the population deepened. Nevertheless, debt has increased by 17 percentage points over the four years. Do we really want to go the same way? Not the same, actually. Even more ruthless to the people and economy of this country. At that time, the level of consolidation at state budget level reached 110 billion. Four years' worth of crowns. Now it would have to be 150 billion. A year's worth of crowns. I really don't want us to start thinking again, like ten years ago, about whether to valorize pensions at all, whether to start saving money on teachers, doctors or security firms. People are often in the front line these days. And I already reject that, as then, the insufficient revenue from the economic downturn should be dealt with by increasing taxes. I think one failed experiment is enough. Let us learn and choose another path this time. Before the end of my speech, allow me to address the opposition opinion of the National Budget Board on the amendment to this law. To the opinion that opposers like to repeat. As a lawyer, I must say that very cheaply, without verifying and confronting the Council's position with both national and European legislation. The opinion of the budgetary board can be summarised by saying that the amendment to the Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility is not necessary because the situation can be managed under existing legislation. No cuts or tax increases. Believe me, if there was such a possibility, I'd be the first to take it. Unfortunately, reality isn't like that. They cannot be used by the advice recommended by the escape clause, because the ones referred to in paragraph 4 of Section 10 relate only to the current year. The year the adverse event immediately occurred or occurred. Unless, of course, the National Budget Board assumes that the emergency or economic downturn will not continue in the years to come. The single and transitional operations referred to in the second paragraph of the same paragraph cannot be applied either. I mean, there's a revenue cut for at least 140 billion. The koruna, which I mentioned at the outset, is not an operation in the sense of government or other measures. This is the result of a deep recession that has its effects of a major overlap over the years to come. I'm not asking for any blank check here, but above all, to maintain the current expenses. About maintaining the standard of living of our citizens. And since the decline in income is a matter of changing the trend, not just the business cycle, ordinary instruments are not enough. The concept of a structural balance is failing here. The fiscal rule must be temporarily released. A change that not only perceives the future through limited budget optics, but in all contexts and ties to social and economic development. Only then will the events of 2020 leave in our minds a memory of an exceptional but only a short-term episode of our lives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u7	Thank you. And now I ask that Senator Tomáš Goláň take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u8	Mr President, honourable Members, I agree with everything that has been said here. But of course you expect a "but" to come. As you laughed yesterday when I said I was here as an expert and not as a politician, today I will try again to be here as an expert and not as a politician so I can entertain you first thing in the morning. The "but" is that temporary was always there. I do not see any temporaryness in a seven-year plan, because you know for yourself that you have approved this new budget framework for 2021 to 2027, which is seven years. We're talking about the EU escape clause. It's temporary, but not seven-year-old. I must turn against the fact that, by rejecting this amendment, we do not want to bail out that we do not want to bail out public finances. We want to prevent an increase in the deficit. When we look at the predictions, the original forecast for economic growth was actually 2,2 percent. Today, the Ministry of Finance predicts an economic downturn of 5.6 percent. When you add it up, it's 7.8 percent. And economists all know that for every percentage point, income is down by 21 billion. So we're witnessing a 165 billion drop this year. Of course, we know that other spending on economic remediation in this situation will be around 76 to 100 billion. That means that the deficit you're gonna approve today should be 300 billion will be temporary. Yes, it is an extraordinary situation, it is a situation based on emergency measures and can be applied to Section 10 (4) (a) of the Budgetary Liability Act. [[9.30 hours]] Let's see, today, the secretary said that we are in total debt of 30.8% of gross domestic product, that's true. But if we adopt this law, in 2022, we're already going to have a deficit of 40 percent of gross domestic product. Look, over the years, we've gotten to 30.8%, and this is how we get to 40 percent of the gross domestic product. And in 2026, even a year before the budgetary framework ceases to be in force, under this law, we will reach a deficit of 43 percent of the gross domestic product. I think that you, who are government parties and have always been in the role of the government of budgetary responsibility, the government that has tried to have surpluses, I think that this is as unacceptable for you as it is for everyone else. It is not that we are not to bail out the economy in any way and that we are not to ensure a decline in pensions and so on. That's not what this is about. This is about future developments. This is about the development in the next few years when this is all over. Because neither of us thinks this situation will be projected until 2027. But that's what the budget framework is about. The Senate returned the law because it wants you to prepare a new, more short-term law. The current budgetary framework, the previous, was also for a shorter period. And all of a sudden, you're catching a budget framework seven years in advance, which is counting on the enormous debt of this common state of ours. And I think it's totally unacceptable for you, too, because you've always stood up, as I say, to the budgetary responsibility. The whole situation has another framework. Such a law, which significantly indebts the future of this republic and future generations, should be adopted in the form of a constitutional law and certainly not in a state of legislative emergency. Because you know that budget deficit at 300 billion. You're able to do without this law. I know that the Minister said that the budgetary framework for 2021 must be approved by the end of April. But you should have thought of that before. But such a law, with such fatal implications for the debt of this country, cannot be adopted in a state of legislative emergency. This law is not directly related to measures against coronavirus, it is not directly related to this pandemic and it is not directly related to the current economic situation. No way. You can feel it. It's seven years ahead. Therefore, I ask you to reject this law and adopt a new law that will reflect the current situation, but it will reflect your personal budgetary responsibility for future years and future generations as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u9	Thank you. Do the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mrs Vostrá, or the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Budgets, want to comment gradually on the resolution of the Ferjenčík? The Member is not in the Chamber; Mr Ferjenčík wants to comment. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to mention the second aspect of this discussion. One thing is, in our opinion, the proposal is factually wrong. This means, instead of dealing with the technical details of the application in those escape clauses in response to the fight, the crisis - in our view, the current regulation is sufficient, the Ministry of Finance does not agree, although the National Budget Board, as the body to guarantee this, agrees and believes that the escape clause can also be applied next year. But so be it, if the Treasury doesn't agree, let him propose a solution to the escape clause and not a proposal that will liquidate the law for seven years. That's one aspect. The second aspect is that, in our view, it is completely unacceptable that the law, which concerns January next year and the next seven years, should be adopted in a state of legislative emergency, in an accelerated process. I am very pleased that President Zamrazilová can finally speak, but she has not yet been able to speak to the government, where it was approved, on the budget committee where it was discussed, in the House for the first time when it was approved. So the process of adopting this law is also very unhappy, and that was why we did the opposing report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u11	Thank you. It's just technically. With the replacement card number 26, Mr Holomčík votes, with the replacement card number 23, Mr Lubomír Volný. He also apologizes for today's meeting of Mrs Lenka Kozlová for health reasons and Mr Ivan Bartoš for working reasons from 10.30 to the end of the morning block, i.e. up to 13 o'clock. I'm opening the debate. Mr Kubíček with a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Once again, I will propose a shortening of the speeches of the various Members in the debate for five minutes, and I will ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u13	I've summoned colleagues from the lobby. We are voting that the speaking time for each Member should be limited to five minutes. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 53, registered is 181, for 102, versus 25. The motion was accepted. Thank you. President Zamrazilová is now enrolled in the debate. Just to be clear. We voted that the speaking time of Members was limited to five minutes. This restriction shall not apply to the President. It's a gentleman's agreement. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u14	Thank you. Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and I will try briefly to sum up the arguments which led the National Budgetary Council to disagree on this amendment of the law. Since its inception in all its performances, personal, media, official, which I, too, have been interpreting directly to the government by the Minister or the entire government, we have unanimously said one recommendation: in good times it is necessary to create a reserve for times worse, which will inevitably come. Nevertheless, we have reached a situation where according to the latest figures from the Ministry of Finance, the structural deficit discussed here reached its domestic one percent limit, which therefore sets it a law on budgetary responsibility, please nicely, as early as in 2019, which was the year of roughly average economic growth. And of course I won't forget to add - before any onset of coronavirus. The crucial thing is that our domestic criterion of a 1% structural deficit as one of the key elements of the Budgetary Responsibility Act is more free than the European, so-called medium-term expenditure framework. Here we have set a limit of 0,75 percent of the structural deficit, and from the level of half a percent ours divided only three hundredths of a percentage point. Please, it's all numbers, of course, but there's a story behind those numbers. It's a story about how, as they say, a good landlord jumps over a fence for a feather, so this landlord may otherwise lose the whole pillow after each feather. So I'm referring to the Ministry of Finance saying: Shouldn't we have added to teachers, valorized pensions, increased parental, enabled pensioners to travel favorably? I can't answer that. But the fact is, we've already de facto broken the legal rule before Coronavirus arrived. And now, because of all these feathers, the fiscal pillow has been completely removed over the last two years, thanks to all these modifications, and there is no fiscal room left to stimulate without mitigating the rules. [[9.40 hours]] As I say, the structural deficit has reached its 1% limit in the previous year and the European rule has been broken. Of course, the fact that the European rule has been broken does not really matter, because the European Union has slowed down for this year - please do not talk nicely about the years to come - has eased these European limits, which bind us by European law. As for this, ladies and gentlemen, the structural deficit, it is a difficult concept to grasp. It's hard to imagine him. But I will try to put it simply: it is a balance of public finances adjusted for the effect of the business cycle, plus a one-off measure. Those one-off measures are defined according to the common methodology of the Ministry of Finance and the National Budget Board, with the fact that whether or not they are one-off measures in the future should be assessed by the National Budget Board. And ladies and gentlemen, indeed, many of the measures taken by the government in recent weeks will certainly be assessed by the National Budget Board as a one-off measure. It's just that these measures are not to be signed up for mandatorial expenses permanently. Let it really be transitional! Their volume is de facto a secondary matter. Moreover, the Ministry of Finance will need 270 billion this year compared to the originally declared borrowing need. The crowns we talked about before coronavirus. In addition, in the case of a 300-billion-dollar deficit, 260 billion more. extra crowns. So it will total by more than half a trillion crowns. So far, the government is able to borrow in sufficient volumes and at good interest on the markets. We have a large portion of the original borrowing consumption covered by government bond emissions. However, it must be taken into account that the long-stretched law on budgetary responsibility and its compliance has contributed to a good position on the financial market and to a good rating of the Czech Republic. For two years now, the National Budget Board has been visiting us not only from the European Commission, from the International World Fund, but also from Moody's rating agencies and others. And in this context, the amendment to the law could actually mean that the disbanding of one of the two basic policies contained in this law, namely the one percent structural deficit, could damage the good reputation that we are really trying to promote in all these missions. From the financial markets, there are now quite clear signals that investors will start to differentiate. And the Czech Republic is a young debtor with a short history on the financial market and compared not only with the old Europe, but also with a number of so-called. emerging markets. At the same time, our domestic financial market is very shallow, which means that we will be very dependent on the willingness of foreign investors to invest in our government bonds in the future. And already foreign investors own more than 40 percent of the Czech state debt. That's the number from the end of 2019. Maybe it'll be even more after the last auctions. In general, historically and internationally accepted rules, it is a safe limit of 30, a maximum of 33 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already pointed out this risk in both our reports on the long-term sustainability of public finances, which we dare to present to you each year. Why am I talking so much about this? The opinion of both economists and financiers is increasingly expressed that, like the mortgage crisis started in 2008, the debt crisis in the United States will gradually develop rapidly. If I had not been in the epicenter of the previous crisis as a civil servant, perhaps I would have seen this situation a little differently. But I was a representative of the Czech National Bank at the time when the European Systemic Risk Board was established, so-called. The ESRB. I also cannot forget, as a representative of the CNB, at the OECD Economic Policy Commission, the words of Mr Gurríe, the Secretary-General, who warned both in Paris and in Prague that a small open economy must be more cautious and cautious than its large counterparts, which are also more self-sufficient. In a free translation, Mr Gurría said that a small ship floating in the open sea had to be built of extremely solid wood. Ladies and gentlemen, these reflections and principles have been inserted into my memory completely indeliblely, which is why I want to share them with you. I do not want to doubt that our debt at the end of 2019 was relatively low in the context of advanced economies and the world. But unfortunately, I must add that, on the contrary, we are one of the worst-prepared countries not only in the European but world context. Financial markets will also address this risk, in a negative direction, of course. Adding to this the fact that unraveling the rules after only three years of the law, in a very strong and long-term form, will certainly not be a good signal. Let me remind you once again that the amendment is intended to release one of the two basic insurance policies for the entire seven years starting with a very high value of a four percent structural deficit, which is some 200 to 250 billion. extra crowns. With a return to original value in 2027. The reason report talks about short-term stimulation, but our view is that seven years is a very long time. Not only our factual interpretation, but also the legal opinion that I took the liberty of sending you shows that the state budget for 2021 and the years beyond can be created without this amendment. Moreover, the downturn that awaits us means that even in 2021, our economy will not return to its potential. The potential is such a virtual concept again, but I will try to explain in a simple way. It is essentially a gross domestic product that would be achieved next year if the economy grew at its average long-term pace in 2020 and 2021. And if this level is not achieved next year as it will not, then the definition will be a problem on the side of the business cycle, and a budget can therefore be drawn up at least with a deficit of 100 billion. CZK even without interference with the law. Therefore, there is no need to shift the structural deficit to 4% for next year. [[9.50 hours]] The cutbacks referred to in the submission and the explanatory memorandum are far from at risk in that volume, because the economic cycle will indeed be to blame. And that is what the rule of structural deficit is freed for. Moreover, I recall the possibility of one-off measures that have been mentioned here. It's obviously a legal dispute or uncertainty. But one-off measures aren't related to escape clauses. Our calculations of the National Budget Board show that the amendment would lead to an increase in debt to at least 36% of GDP in 2021, and then, in this year's deficit of CZK 300 billion, it would be even more, some 38 percent of the debt in relation to gross domestic product. In 2022, debt would certainly break the 40% threshold, and in 2025 it would be at least 45 per cent of gross domestic product, which, ladies and gentlemen, is quite close to the debt brake of the second basic parameter of the law, which, I would like to remind you, is set at 55 per cent. This crisis will go away like any crisis, and we will then return to the problem of how public finances are to deal with population ageing and pension reform. But we're going to have a much higher starting debt, closer to the debt brake, and thus a much worse starting position. We will spend around CZK 650 billion in those years beyond the budgetary rules, and we will not be one step further in the preparation for ageing. This year, when debt breaks the threshold of CZK 2 trillion, I deliberately set aside because I understand the need to act quickly, efficiently and to get money into the economy. No one's questioning that. I'm sorry I spoke for so long. And thank you so much for listening to me. I am responsible for the long-term sustainability of public finances, and I feel very responsible for this. I have sent you all materials that provide arguments that the state budget can be drawn up without the adoption of the amendment. I just wanted to introduce you to the broader context of our position. Ladies and gentlemen, please consider carefully your decision today, even though it may seem to be in the flood of all the materials you face daily, and all the changes that fall on your shoulders, it may seem like a minor regulation. But this is a much more serious matter, which could very negatively affect the long-term sustainability of public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u15	Thank you. And now I have two factual points. And I, as President, would like to clarify this now. The first is registered with a factual remark by President Jurečka, who, of course, has a preferential right. Or maybe it's a mistake? Then there's Mr. Benda. I want to ask because I was based on this, and yesterday I asked that we agreed on all the short-term negotiations that factual remarks would not be applied. So I'm asking whether or not this agreement applies. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] Or is it something procedural, Mr. Ambassador? Please. Of course, I have to give the floor to everyone, everyone has the right to a point of fact. I'd just like us to keep this deal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u16	I am so sorry, Mr President, that I didn't make it, but you let me vote so quickly. I think that Mr Kubíček's proposal was incorrect in this case and that it should not have been voted on. Maybe we can handle this debate without him, that's not a problem. But we do not act in the law in the second and third readings in a state of legislative emergency, but we are discussing a law that has been returned to us by the Senate, although originally approved in a legislative emergency, and there are some exceptions in Section 99 para. 9 that we do not have to comply with the time limits for recovery. But there is nothing to be said about limiting the debate beyond the Rules of Procedure. I don't want a revision of the resolution right now. But I just want to make this clear in the future and not rush into these procedural matters. We keep going somewhere and sometimes we make mistakes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u17	Thank you. I confess that I was not surprised by Mr Kubíček's proposal because he was also consulted in advance with the legislative union. And in this case, I am based on § 99 para. 7, where, in fact, the whole of Section 99 refers to a shortened negotiation in a state of legislative emergency. There is no doubt that we are in a state of legislative emergency now. And we have also decided on this briefing. The decision lasts. And I think that Section 99 is applicable because there's no cumulative shorter speaking time with second reading. It says that the House may decide to shorten speaking time. I consulted everything just in case. We had a brief argument about restrictions on one performance. Let's say it was fifty-fifty. I always let the House decide as a sovereign in this case. We voted, and I hope that we can handle another discussion together. Mrs Kovářová is the first to be entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u18	Dear colleagues, Madam President, the proposal that the Senate has returned is that the government is proposing and wants the Czech Republic to be more indebted over the next seven years than the rules of liability allow. The government is referring to the fact that the funds will go to measures that will be taken in relation to the effects of the pandemic, and therefore significantly higher deficits will be created in the next seven years. The Minister argued that if this proposal fails to be enforced, cuts would be necessary and, of course, tax increases, and the Ministry of Finance does not want that. Of course, it is clear that it would seem logical to loosen the rules that would prevent excessive government debt at the time of Coronavirus, because it cannot be blamed on the government, and we also support that it wants to provide enough money to support businesses and companies that have been affected by the economic effects of the pandemic. However, the government can also obtain the necessary funds under the existing law. The law of such situations, and here it has been mentioned several times, remembers. It contains the so-called escape clause and the institute of one-off and transitional measures. And with these measures, it is possible to loosen the rules of budgetary responsibility for a limited period. It follows, therefore, that the budget for 2021 and subsequent years could therefore be drawn up without amending this law. Once again, we are very sorry that this adjustment has not been consulted by the National Budget Council, because it is it that the Board is supposed to supervise compliance with the rules of budgetary responsibility. And it was the National Budget Board that called 4 percent of GDP of the structural deficit directly into the law for 2021. The reasons are as follows. No one knows at this point how the economic situation will develop in a few weeks, let alone next year, and how much fiscal stimulus will therefore be necessary. The National Council also says that fiscal laws should be universally applicable and should not, if possible, take into account any specific situation by new paragraphs. [[10.00 hours]] If the government thinks there is a problem with this law, then let it propose a general regulation. We could discuss the real reasons why the government is putting forward this proposal and relaxing fiscal policy for the next seven years. Under the current law, it has sufficient resources, in this case under the existing law, either to address the consequences of the current emergency or to have them for a limited period of time. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room.]] The Ministry should then also cooperate with the National Budget Board. Following the adoption of the amendment to this Act, the Government threatens to use funds not only for measures related to the coronavirus crisis but also to cover other expenditures, especially in the following year, in 2021, which will be the year of the election, and these expenditures will not be related to the economic crisis. Madam Secretary asks: Do we want to be more ruthless to people? And we say, "No, on the contrary. We want to be considerate, responsible, and we want a government that will strive for the long-term sustainability of its public finances. And for this reason, and the others that I have mentioned, we will not support this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u19	Your time. Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Mr. President Jurečka has applied with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u20	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, fellow Members, I would like to thank the President of the National Budget Council, Mrs Zamrazilová, for explaining the argument which, as Members, was also sent to us by e-mail, of course. I won't be long. I just want to say that when, in the previous coalition government, the National Budget Board institute was legally anchored, and some of you were there and voted in favour, it was for us to create rules here that would lead to the good economics of the Czech Republic, which would give us the predictability to be readable, so that we could also reduce the cost of operating the state debt. There have been many rational arguments, and I think that in this letter and in the President's speech, if you listened carefully, which I do not know how many of us have been, there have been clear arguments that have refuted the fact that the government cannot effectively implement aid in support of the recovery of the domestic economy this year or next year in the framework of the rules that are in force today, to stabilise jobs. I must say that for us, for KDU-ČSL, we did not support such dislodgement during the last hearing in the Chamber of Deputies or in the Senate, and we will not support it now either, because there are clearly clear arguments here that this is not necessary and creates a framework which can also significantly damage the Czech Republic. I am asking which of the Members who raise their hand will be responsible for this at the moment when the rating will be impaired and will bear the higher cost of operating the state debt. I beg you, which one of you will be responsible for this? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u21	Thank you. With priority rights, the Minister of Finance is reporting to the debate. No, I misunderstood that, so I'm sorry. In that case, Mr Dolejš. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u22	Thank you. I did a little jogging, but I made it. I have three comments because I feel that this debate is starting to deviate somewhat from the original material, i.e. from the correction of the relevant debt liability law and the purpose of the correction, and is heading somewhere I would call a pre-election campaign in 2021. And I think that we should not confuse these two planes, because we are not having a dispute about what the Czech Republic will be like when the economic crisis comes through, because the political responsibility for such a strategy will be borne by governments that will emerge from the elections in 2021, because I do not want to be a pessimist, but I fear that this year is clear. And we could now have a debate over reverberation or certain echo effects in 2021, but unfortunately we don't have a crystal ball, so that's exactly what we can't determine. The truth is that today we are dealing with the preparation of the budget for 2021, which has one spell, and that it is the year of the election. On the other hand, it is somehow the fact that if we were to build on the Czech version of the Act on budgetary responsibility, this merely shifts not into an economically strategic plane, but to a pragmatically legal level. This means whether the wording about the rule of the structural deficit is really a barrier or not a barrier. And this brings me to the fact that there are actually two opinions here, particularly legal opinions. One opinion is an executive body, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, which is given responsibility. This is against the position of the National Budget Board, which is also equipped with a legal opinion, has been sent to us and which claims otherwise. And now we have to decide and for possible reverberation and debate about the legitimacy of our step in the legislative need et cetera, et cetera, so everything basically depends on this. And that's what we should be focusing on. Since the view that the respective escape clauses are non-applicationable is, of course, of course, extremely important for the routine procedure, as budgetary rules impose it. If we should focus on whether, by stretching it out for seven years in time, we are already pre-empting some kind of budget release rather than dealing with technology, i.e. correcting the inapplicability, I'm afraid there's probably not time in this accelerated process for this type of legal debate because I remember when this law - how many? - four, five years, I think it was 2016, he approved of how difficult it was to debate. And the critics of today's step are themselves who believe that what we approved back then is nothing, it has minimal meaning, because they originally had an idea of a harder law, and especially at constitutional level. And now we're gonna fight for a law that you think is basically just as small and meaningless? I think we should really focus on the main thing. We can also look at European experience. But the problem is that the Czech specific law is a little different, and if Europe, European states, now I do not mean a European compact, which in general in Europe is probably also unusable for some time, but specific laws in particular European countries are not corrected in this way, but they also have a different form. So for this reason, the logic of today's step is clear to me and all the discussions that are justified because we don't know how this development is going to develop, and in any case, the risk of a debt spiral is here, but how we're going to strategically avoid it, how we're going to set up our public finance policy, how to revise the very philosophy of our tax mix, because it's also about setting revenue, how to make more rational budget policy spending with the corresponding modernising multiplier effects, and how to defend our social state level, that will definitely be the priority of the campaign next year before 2021. So let's not confuse these roles. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] For this reason, the legal merit leads me to rely on the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, which also goes on the market with skin if someone is found and puts it in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u23	Thank you. I'll ask for better respect for time, otherwise, of course, I'm good myself. The next person is President Bartošek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. For me, just a brief remark on the bill under discussion. Today, we are to express ourselves in a state of legislative emergency, in a brief hearing, to discuss the Government's bill on budgetary responsibility. Let me sum up chronologically known data here, I think it is important to repeat them. It is basically a basis for an idea of us and the general public how this government behaves in the situation, how it reacts and, above all, how it cooperates with adequate competent institutions. So: 1. 3. the first case of conavir has been reported in the Czech Republic. 12. 3. Government has declared emergency. 19. 3. a state of legislative emergency has been declared by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. 7. 4. We decided here in the House to extend the emergency situation to 30. 4. but already 1. 4. The Finance Minister has submitted to the Government a proposal for an amendment to the Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility. On that same day, the Government approved this amendment, including a request for its discussion in a short hearing in the context of a declared state of legislative emergency. Followed by a process we know. In the House, the law was ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets, which recommended it for approval, but was accompanied by an opposition report. Yet, let's say, the force in the House was 8. 4. approved. In the Senate, the press was directed to the Committee on Economics, Agriculture and Transport and to the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Both committees recommended that the amendment be rejected, and the Senate negotiations brought the same result. I think that the vote that took place, when only 3 senators opposed the rejection, 4 abstained, but 40 of the senators present rejected the proposal. Well, today we have this novel back. We have all received the opinion of the National Budget Board by e-mail. This includes not only a legal analysis, the most important conclusion of which is that a similar amendment is not absolutely necessary and its adoption threatens that today we will allow unprecedented dislodgement of the rules of budgetary responsibility, thus, in short, we will issue a blank check to the current government for the next seven years and increase the risk of an enormous debt to the state. I've studied all these materials carefully. These materials were delivered to us by Dr Zamrazilová and prepared by lawyers and experts from the National Budget Board. I think we are all in agreement that it is necessary to help all affected by the Coronavirus crisis effectively and as quickly as possible. We are also aware that there will be considerable costs for the state budget and that it is also necessary to think precisely in the spirit of budgetary responsibility for the future, which measures we will implement. What I don't understand is why this is happening on the way of this proposed amendment, and economically, neither are the relevant arguments of the Ministry of Finance that this cannot be done without the amendment. It is, and even possible adoption of this amendment could lead us to economically very difficult situations in the future. Necessary indebtion of the Czech economy, deterioration of long-term sustainability of public finances, increase so-called. risk premium of the Czech Republic on foreign markets etc. This is also the case with the conclusions of Ms Zamrazilová, who refused to comment on the Ministry of Finance's argument that without this amendment of the law, he could not draw up a state budget for 2021 next year. According to the legal interpretation and expert opinion of the National Budget Board, the state budget for next year can be drawn up, even on the basis of the existing law. For me, however, these three questions that arise from expert expertise are important, and I am happy to wait for them to answer: What is the real reason why we need an amendment to this law, and also in the context of the fact that we are less than a year and a half into the parliamentary elections? Secondly, why the Ministry of Finance did not cooperate with responsible experts and institutions to prepare this amendment, such as: The National Budget Board? All I'm saying here is that the National Budget Board has learned about this novel from the media. - And thirdly, why aren't the Treasury experts acting the way they should be their own, like a proper businessman, a responsible businessman? Because it looks like this was a political assignment. For KDU-ČSL I can say that we will not support this economic gamble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u25	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Minister Zaorálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u26	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I just want to respond to what I heard here. That's something I've heard in the House in the past, the thundering on the subject of how we must prevent the disastrous debt of this country. It is something that even in this country sounds from time to time Gustáv Husák, who also used to say: we communists will never allow this country to be indebted. And from time to time, Gustáv Husák became a very popular motive, which often returns here. So, of course, our country is not in debt, because in an atmosphere where this torch is taken over regularly, I think it is almost impossible, and it will probably never be done by any government or political party. But I would just like to offer you - because I have always been skeptical of self-contained automata in an economy such as debt brakes or constitutional rules for not indebting the state, because all of these measures do not usually count on such situations where extraordinary crises occur and when it is necessary to respond quickly and completely differently than this robotic thinking, which is often represented by the political right here in this country. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, at the moment, if you look at what the world's strongest economies are doing, I will just remind you that the United States is launching fiscal stimulus at 6.6% of GDP. And that's not all. At this point, they're preparing another fiscal stimulus package, so they're going to increase the debt, if you want, by increasing the fiscal stimulus, because they're going to add another 6.9 percent to that. Japan is using fiscal stimulus at 10 percent of GDP. And in the expert articles today, it says that Europe is likely to be able to get out of the recession, because the level of fiscal stimulus in Europe, again as it was ten years ago, is significantly lower than for example. In the United States. Most of all, Germany gives 4,4%, other European countries, France etc. a maximum of over 1 %. And it is already said today that these very low fiscal incentives will be responsible for Europe getting out of this recession as badly and as difficult as it was from the crisis that was ten years ago. And you might remember that the reason America got out of the last recession much faster than Europe was the massive fiscal stimulus that could lift America from the recession and revive the economy. I'd like to tell you a painting like that. In situations like this recession, the logic is a little different than screaming against debt. It's about logic when it comes to a situation like this, like when you're on a slope like a skier, and when you're supposed to go down a steep slope, and instead of leaning forward, you lean backwards out of fear of debt. Then you're guaranteed to fall. On the contrary, in a situation like this recession, one has to adapt to the situation and adapt to that speed. And this typical Czech fear is leaning back with the skier, which then leads the skier to fall. It's just a picture of the situation we're in. And I'd like to say, because when you're yelling that you're afraid of debt, we have to be afraid of something completely different. I'd like to quote Martin Wolf here, who I like to read. Martin Wolf said this sentence about two days ago: If we can't out of this health crisis, the epidemiological crisis, so viral, if we can't get the economies moving by the end of June, we're in danger of devastation, which is going to be equal to what was in Europe in 1930. So let's pray that we are really able to get out of this health crisis, because then hopefully we have the tools to restore that growth. But if we do something about it! Not if we call in here and say we can't get in debt right now. [[10.20 hours]] The Czech Republic is a country with a long-term debt of 30%, you all know that. And if this low debt is right for anything, that's it. Because even today, when - I'm not saying that we are America, and of course we are not going to tear it out ourselves, but we also have a certain chance of getting more out of this recession if today we secure what we need most: sufficient liquidity, cash, which is terribly lacking, even in the Czech economy. And if we don't get him there, it's just gonna die, normally it's just gonna die, and then it's a lot harder to start. It's like when you fall down that slope, it's kind of hard to do something on that slope. So this is simply the logic of the situation. And I'm warning you right now, screaming for God's sake, now let's not go into debt, for God's sake, let's not increase the deficit. I've spoken to economists, I don't want to name them here, they also work abroad, they believe that the deficit we are proposing here today is a third of what we should have in the Czech Republic. The situation is completely opposite. Today we lack focus on the restoration of liquidity in the Czech Republic. Today, we lack the effort to try massively to prevent the economy from simply stopping here. So, please, let's not be scared of debt today, and let's not be afraid of the complete opposite of what's really threatening us today. And today I just understand the embarrassment of the Treasury over debt brakes. Because someone here said it was seven years old. It's been seven years - it's not seven years. How come it hasn't been seven years? If it happens that the crisis will be prolonged, it's for ten years! So let's not say that today, if we keep the budget in order, nothing will happen! Do you understand? That's the scary skier who's trying to take a careful ride and who doesn't have a chance to ride him at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u27	Thank you. I have three priority rights here now. First, Mr. Vice-President of the ODS, then President Kalousek changed his application for priority rights, so I will give the floor to President Kalousek, and then President Jurečka is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u28	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna say those standard comments in my standard performance, in which I'm gonna go in some standard order, but I want to respond to Minister Zaorálek, because it was just a bunch of nonsense we heard here, lies, untruths, ignorance. I'll just say two. Mr. Zaorálek said we're not in debt. Please, Minister of Finance, show your colleague from the government how much the government owes to gross domestic product. We're in debt. And as for the Husák, we're all inspired by someone else. But with budgetary responsibility, Alois Rašín came first, encoded it into the genetics of the Czech Republic, Czechoslovakia, and we benefit from it today. So it's not Husák, it's Rašín.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u29	Now the priority right, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been talking for quite a long time about this law when we discussed it last time, so I will now be much more brief and allow myself to have just a few comments on the debate under way. Minister Zaorálek, with all due respect to him, here he simply confuses things that don't belong together at all. No one doubts that at a time of recession, especially a recession of this type, we simply have to have a deficit. There's no other way. Even if we had the reserves that you have unfortunately dissolved, and as has been said here, you have broken the rule of budgetary responsibility before the Corona crisis, even if it were not so, we must simply have a deficit at the time of the recession and we must have fiscal incentives. Even today, I think they could be more massive than they are. No one doubts that. But one thing is fiscal stimulus at a time of recession, and the other is a high structural deficit at a time of growth. And that is what you are proposing now, Minister, as a member of the government. The Minister of Finance is presenting a forecast where growth of around 3% is expected in 2021. In 2022, even more growth is added. And in relation to this growth in 2022, 2023 even, in 2023, the government will plan a cosmic 3% structural deficit. After two years of growth! That's what we're talking about! Not about fiscal stimulus in times of recession, but about total budgetary irresponsibleness in times of growth! Mr. Dolejš said that the debate is a bit perverse to the political... electoral debate before 2021, but that is not true. We are discussing our budgetary responsibility and management of public finances over the next decade. You have put forward some timetable for us completely unacceptable, high structural deficits for the next seven years. And you don't expect consolidation until 2027. And I would like to remind you, I would like to remind you that 2027 is already before the gates of that demographic breakthrough, when they begin to retire in the early 70s, when we know well that the sustainability of the mandatory insurance system, the pension system and the health system, is extremely problematic and will require enormous costs. Even the government, without knowing about the coronavirus crisis, has accumulated huge deficits in the pension system in its convergence programme. That means, the deficit wave you're planning for us now, logically follows up on a huge deficit wave in compulsory insurance. And that's basically what you're planning here for 15 or 20 years in advance. And I would like to point out - it has been said here by President Zamrazilová - that the patience of investors is not short-lived, that at this moment, yes, at this time the Czech Republic has a decent position in the financial markets and can buy on decent terms, but a sane investor who will see these deficit plans by 2027 and the unsustainableness of mandatory insurance immediately thereafter, logically starts to choose either a more trustworthy country or starts to add up to such risky premiums that we are going to get dizzy. It's only a matter of time before we lose confidence in the financial markets in this public finance management. Who should lend to someone here who publicly declares that in the next ten or fifteen years he wants to lead the country into a debt trap? Ladies and gentlemen, this really isn't this year's or election debate, this is a debate on responsibility, about managing public budgets for the next decade. That ballot will, to a certain extent, be a historical fact. Anyone who wants to be held responsible for the disruption of public finances should support this proposal. Who is aware of the need for fiscal stimulus at the time of the recession that Minister Zaorálek is calling for, does not need to change the law, because these are measures that are being cleared by the structural deficit! These are one-time measures, and we just don't have to count them or have to worry about them in the long term because they don't reflect on long-term commitments. But what you're presenting here is a blank check to make the huge structural deficit you're planning in three years, in four years, at a time of growth to meet long-term commitments, i.e. mandatorial spending, and that's unacceptable! That's the irresponsible thing to do! I'm begging you, don't do this. Increase this year's deficit by another 200 billion to one-off fiscal stimulus in the economy, and I will support it! But don't burden us with a senseless structural deficit for the next seven years!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u31	Thank you. At this point, there are still three priority rights. I'm just gonna read a few apologies. Minister Jana Maláčová apologizes for working reasons for today's meeting, Minister Tomáš Petříček apologizes from 10.15 to 11 hours for working reasons, Minister Marie Benešová apologizes for working reasons throughout the meeting day. Now President Jurečka, then President Bartošek, then Minister Zaorálek. Three priority rights. Then Vice-President Skopeček - also a priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u32	Thank you. On the one hand, I appreciate the fact that Minister Zaorálek spoke here and threw himself on a subject that is not directly related to his department, but I think it is important that the members of the government, apart from the Minister of Finance, also respond, because this is a very important subject. I agree with what he said here in relation to the fact that today really urgently lacks companies, businessmen, the economy of liquidity, cash simply. And that's actually the reaction to what companies have been complaining about in feedback for the last two weeks today. The existing measures are simply not fast enough, as has been announced and as we see in other countries such as Germany, England, Canada, etc. And I fully agree that if the government had come here and said that it had targeted, fast, effective measures, both immediately to those people in the order of days and in the form of online as in Germany, when they sent the form and within two days they had money in their account, helping the Czech economy, they would certainly support such an increase in the deficit of KDU-ČSL. But I cannot agree with him that the Czech Republic is not actually in debt and that debt is not really a problem as it came out here, although I understand that we are in an exceptional situation that has not been here since the Second World War and since the crisis of the 1930s. I understand that. But I would actually remind you why this whole law and the National Budget Board came into existence, and I will be back by 2012. I was now looking through Google, when ČSSD was in opposition at that time, to express the representatives of the ČSSD to the then Nečasův government. And maybe I can read here one part, which Bohuslav Sobotka said at the time: ODS according to Sobotka handed over the ČSSD region with a debt of 14 billion four years ago. Crowns. This has increased by 7.7 billion in the last regional leadership. CZK, which also occurred due to recession and large government cuts, which meant several billion-dollar blackouts for the regions. So summarized and underlined, although the orange regions increased the debt of the regions by 7 billion, Nečasův' government was able to chop off government debt for half a trillion crowns, etc. At that time, the government or representatives of social democracy criticized the government for increasing debt in a time of crisis or in a crisis. When the government coalition of the ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL arose, she said: we want to give these things rules. That is why the National Budget Board and the legislative clear frame of the Council were created. And I am sorry that, apparently, the members of the government here have made the mistake of not inviting the representatives of the National Budget Board to the government's meeting to read the opinions that the National Budget Board has issued on this legislative proposal. And I would like to quote here two brief paragraphs from a letter that we all received as Members: The National Budget Board agrees that the current situation calls for extraordinary measures both to the extent and to the speed of their adoption. It is also aware that some of these measures and probably some degree of fiscal stimulus of the economy will also be needed in the following year, but the current wording of the law does not limit the government's fiscal space by its 1% limit in this case. The reason for this is the existence of several institutes, which the law contains and which enable fiscal policy to respond appropriately to emergency situations associated with major economic problems without being bound by a 1% limit. First of all, it is necessary to mention the institute of one-off and transitional measures which are taken into account when establishing expenditure frameworks. This means that if the government needs to stabilise the economy by reducing revenue in a time-limited period, e.g. discounts on insurance premiums or increases in expenditure, e.g. The time-limited supply programme for companies, the CFI, may exceed the maximum value of the structural balance laid down by law on the envisaged scope of these measures. It is the same for the application of so-called escape clauses. These are, for example, expenditure incurred on the basis of an emergency situation or expenditure related to the expected significant deterioration of economic development. Here's the answer! Here's the answer to your speech that if the government wants to, it needs to take quick, effective, massive measures this year, next year, border it, says, these are the measures that we now, at this point, provide, that's the great liquidity that you've been talking about, so the government can do. We don't need to loosen up these rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u33	That was Mr. Marian Jurečka. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. We will continue with individual performances with priority rights. Now Chairman Jan Bartošek, then Minister Zaorálek and then Vice-President of Skopeček Club. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u34	Thank you. Just for a little while. The situation seems serious, because Minister Zaorálek is calling us to pray, which is a clear signal that we are to pursue this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u35	That was fast. Thank you. Now Minister of Culture of the Government of the Czech Republic Lubomír Zaorálek with priority rights. Before I give you my word, Minister, I will ask the House for peace and debate that does not concern the point...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u36	I'll just remind you of two things for the record. Firstly, I responded in my speech to Mr Bartošek's speech. He did not talk about the issues and dangers of the structural deficit, but he warned against indebting a country he would not allow. That's what I responded to. And then I would like to respond to Mr Skopeček by saying that when we talk about the country's overall debt, those figures are, as far as I know, 29 and 30 percent in the case of the Czech Republic. That was before the viral crisis. And this debt of the Czech Republic is, hopefully, the third least in the EU at present. Third smallest. Italy, which is in a far more serious situation, has a debt of 180 per cent against gross domestic product. This means, compare the space, the pillow that the Czech Republic has for fiscal stimulus, to countries that are giving some more today, even though they have no de facto such space. So I repeat, and this is important enough to be here: the Czech Republic 29-30 percent, the third lowest debt in the EU.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u37	Now Mr Skopeček with priority rights, then Mr Bartošek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u38	Thank you for the floor. I will try to sum up a few arguments as to why the ODS can't support this law. I'm going to try to be brief, after all, the pregnant interpretation of the professor was so high-quality that there's no point in putting up with any more arguments here. However, we will not support the law from one simple argument. The main argument is that similar rules of budgetary responsibility are made on a universal principle, that is, they should not apply only to periods of economic growth or good economic weather. Budget rules were designed after the last economic crisis precisely because of the arrival of another economic crisis, so that public finances would not be put in an unsustainable state. Another argument is that there is no point in releasing budgetary rules for such a long time. The Minister argued yesterday that he might come up with another amendment to the state budget because he doesn't know how the situation is going to turn out, and here he wants a blank check for the novel by 2027. I mean, he's not fair to us. One bill on the budget for this year argues that it does not know how it will turn out today, that it does not know how the economy will develop in the coming years, and that it simply cannot be said that it is not possible to make savings today, because we must act quickly and gradually. There is one type of argument in the state budget, this argument does not apply to the budgetary liability law, and the Minister wants to unwind it by 2027, even though the state budget claims that the predictions are premature. [[10.40 hours]] I agree with that. I also think that the figures that predict the International Monetary Fund that we have growth by 7 percent in 2021, the Ministry is more pessimistic and says 3% that they are numbers that are on the water these days, that it is more like crystal ball divination. But if the Ministry of Finance is already expecting positive economic growth next year, it is absolutely irresponsible for us to ask us to loosen the budgetary rules and the rule of the structural deficit until 2027. If the Secretary of State were serious, as with the state budget, she'd want to loosen the budget rule for a year, for two. And, as the government's budget board says, and as the docent has lectured here, she might not even have to do that, because the law simply remembers emergency situations, remembers crisis periods, and the secretary can take one-time emergency measures that no one will blame her for in relation to the limit of one percent of the structural balance. And even the European Union, which the Minister also spoke about in this context, will not blame her, because the European Union is also relaxing the criteria and limits due to the corona crisis that has affected many European countries. Why should we not shed light on why the budgetary rules should remain universal, so is the story of the previous crisis that began in 2008 and which has come down on us as well. Even then, the Minister of Finance could argue that Czech public finances were very healthy. They were even healthier than they currently are. At that time, in 2008, the government debt to gross domestic product was 23,2 %. The economic crisis that hit us has led to an increase. What happened? The following years after the economic crisis, when economic growth came, we never returned to the original level before the financial and economic crisis started in 2008. So out of 23.2% of the government's debt to gross domestic product, we got to the best number after years at 32.6 percent. So the previous economic financial crisis has taken away considerable space, almost 10% to the point of government debt to GDP, to face similar crises in the future. And it is clear that, as in previous crises, it will be very difficult to get the higher level of state debt to the original level, so that we have the fiscal space that the government so likes to talk about, so that we can have it for future crises. As I say, in 2008, state debt to GDP 23.2, the best number after the economic crisis, after many years 32.6. We didn't get any lower. Clearly, then, if we are to open the door to budgetary irresponsibleness, that state debt will grow by further percentage points. It is not possible that it will grow by ten percentage points again, and we will already be at 42 percent of the government's debt to GDP. We are a generation that - or I am a generation that has experienced several economic downturns, one major economic crisis in 2008/2009. It is clear that it will happen to me several times in my life, because it is simply standard that market economies have been growing for a long time, but they will not avoid a short decline. Without a doubt, similar crises, whether economic or health, will not be avoided by generations after us. And we tell them that we don't think about them, that we just want to deal with the current, current crisis and that we don't care what tools and what scope they have for dealing with the crisis. We're just going to drain the fiscal space we like to talk about so much and tell them that when any other economic or health crisis comes, they're unlucky, because we've solved the existing problems at their expense and at their expense. If you think this is a responsible policy, responsible for dealing with the current problem, I don't think so. It is not just this Chamber of Deputies, there will be others. It's not just us, it's our children who can also meet adverse situations and conditions to which they have to respond, even by needing to increase the deficit of the state budget or by increasing government debt. If we take that opportunity away from them, we're putting them in an unsolvable situation. The professor here spoke of a very sensitive matter, a rating that can be dramatically deteriorated within the Czech Republic by this law. I want to say that a good rating saved us even in the last crisis where we could borrow for quite reasonable money, and even though the rating was mocked as a word, it simply allowed us to cope better in connection with public finances with the crisis. However, it should be noted that the crisis launched in 2008 was of a completely different nature and of a different nature than the current crisis. It is often referred to as a global one, but when we look at the map of individual economies, we find that it was rather the Euro-American crisis and that the country had the greatest need to finance increased debts. The current crisis has been unprecedentedly affected by much more of the current world, and it is therefore clear that the need to borrow in the financial markets will be much larger than in 2008/2009 and in those years following. In short, we will compete much more in those markets than we competed in 2008, 2009, 2010 and in those last years. And our worse rating, which can really only bring in the approval of this amendment, will mean that we will be in a much worse situation in competition with the other countries that they want to borrow, we will borrow for more expensive money, and we will pay for many years in the budget higher cost of public service than we were used to in the past and what we can imagine. It sounded pretty clear. This law is not a law to address the costs associated with the current crisis. If that were the case, the Minister will increase the deficit of the current budget and use the extraordinary institutes offered by the Budgetary Responsibility Act. The law is not here to address the current crisis. This law is intended to legitimize the irresponsible management of this government in past years, which is clearly documented by the fact that we have already reached the limit of one percent in the past year. What would the secretary do if the crisis hadn't come? She'd have the same problem. The crisis is just now offering her a very good excuse to legitimize the dissolution of reserves from the privatization fund and all the populist spending that her government has approved in the past. We've been in these past years, and I've said that a lot, they've been having this budget party. Economics prospered, budget revenues grew, the entire revenue side of the budget swelled. And instead of making reserves, we were eating through the money. And we weren't just eating the newly created money that came into the budget, but we were also eating the reserves on the privatization fund, the National Property Fund. We simply behaved differently than Germany did, for example, which, at times of economic growth, prepared the budget space and the budgetary reserve to make use of these budget reserves and help the economy in today's situation. In a situation where the economy needs it, in a situation where there is a crisis or a problem...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u39	I understand you, Mr. Ambassador, but I would have to reassure your fellow party colleagues in particular. So once again, I ask the House for peace! If you're discussing a subject other than the 812 press, please be in the lobby. Wait a minute... I'll wait too. In the meantime, I will announce that a colleague Bartošek and a colleague Volný are registered after you. Now, you can go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u40	Thank you. Thank you very much. I'll make a few more notes. What I consider the worst in this debate is the way the Minister argues. Not only does it not speak the truth in the sense that it is needed because of the current crisis - no, it is not true, the existing rules simply allow extraordinary spending. It's an effort to legalize her past mismanagement. But what I'm very sorry about is that they're not interested in taking a pensioner hostage, and in today's situation, when they themselves are mentally in a bad situation where they can't meet their loved ones, so in this situation, the Minister is terrifying them by not being on their pensions. I think that both the President and all those responsible in this Chamber of Deputies can be promised to pensioners that, although this budgetaryly irresponsible law will not be passed, it will be for pensions. And I wonder to the Minister that she can resort to such an unethical argument, which I would rather expect from the vendors of some dish that want to impose a bad product on pensioners. [[10.50 hours]] Let's take some sense into our hands. This law is intended to enable the government from the current budget party, when reserves were being eaten and when deficits were being made during economic growth, the government wants to make room for budget gluttony. Please, let's not let this happen. This budget party has already been irresponsible, and we're gonna let the public finance be disrupted, we're gonna owe future generations a long time ahead, and we're gonna tell our kids that when there's another crisis like this, no matter what they do with it, because we've solved our crisis at their expense. Please don't vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u41	That was Mr. MP Skopeček. Now, Mr Jan Bartošek. A colleague of the Volný will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u42	Just for a little while. I must respond to the Minister of Culture, Mr. Zaorálek. I have clearly said that I am in favour, and KDU-ČSL repeatedly declares that this year we will increase the state budget deficit and give the economy an incentive and help the business environment. But we are fundamentally opposed to freeing up the law on budgetary responsibility. That's two different things. It is not possible to burden the economy for another seven or ten years by changing this law. That's two completely different things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u43	Thank you. Now, Mr Jan Volný. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u44	Thank you. Colleagues, fellow Members, Mr President, I would like to point out here and maybe highlight a little of the falsehood that our opposition is currently demonstrating to this press. I follow up on the speech by my colleague Kalousek, who said that today's vote will be one big blacklist of those who do not want to be budgetaryly responsible. Colleagues, colleagues, such a blacklist already exists. It was established in 2016 when the previous government under the leadership of Mr Sobotka, but presented this Act on budgetary responsibility for ministering to President Babiš as Minister of Finance. Colleagues, both at third reading and at the vote, when this law came back from the Senate, not one of the 25 members of the TOP 09 under the direction of Mr Kalousek, but neither of the ODS Members, where they were 16, voted for this law. That means this is the blacklist number one that rejected this bill in 2016. So now don't moralize here and let's really talk about things, so it can help this nation and the people of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u45	Thank you, Mr Volný. Mr Skopeček, once again, before the debate. With priority rights - I've seen my colleague Stanjura here, but he's not here now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u46	I'll respond to Mr. Volný. We did not vote for the law because we wanted to be budgetaryly irresponsible, but because, contrary to the original plans, compared to the original financial constitution that the right-wing government was debating and prepared under your pen, a piece of paper was castrated. This is what today shows. You are simply able, by simple majority, to change this law, a law that did not contain sanctions for the irresponsible management that were originally written there. So what we didn't support, my colleague, was because the law was too weak for us because you castrated it with your pen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u47	I don't have anyone registered for the debate. No one's checking in either. I'm done with the conversation. Let me ask you about the final words. Madam Secretary? Mr. Senator? First, Mr. Senator's final word. You have your word, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I will abandon all political debates. I'll leave the election next year. Let's see one thing. To date, we have debt of 30.8% of gross domestic product. There are debts of your governments, of previous governments, it is simply given above, which we do not really have anything to discuss. If you approve this law, we will get to debt of 43 per cent of gross domestic product. This is an increase of more than 30 per cent because it is an increase of 12 per cent compared to the current state. What a percentage. Let's go to the absolute numbers. Thanks to this bill, the budgets are going to fall another 645 billion in years to come. This year you will approve the $300 billion deficit. By this law, you will allow another 645 billion. That's a total of 945 billion. That's close to 1,000 billion, which is 1 trillion. One trillion state budget deficits in 2026. That's the only number that actually talks about everything. You'll increase the deficit by one trillion! I think you're all very responsible, and in approving past budgets, you've shown it. And I don't think anyone told you that number. But the number is true. Moreover, we must realise that we are all very lucky to have an excellent financial condition for the bank. Thanks to this excellent financial condition, we have a great hope that our economy will run very quickly in a way not as we were used to before, but which we may not have even dreamed of. This means that if the Ministry of Finance has a prediction that economic growth will be next year, it's just good news. But I think the situation will be even better because our economy needs one thing - it needs liquidity, it needs money. And that liquidity isn't supposed to be put there by the state, but that liquidity has to be put there by the banks. And if we're in that shape of the banks, then the banks will give us the liquidity. And if it provides liquidity, it will provide economic growth. Why do we need another additional 645 billion deficits if we have economic growth? I think it's time we talked about this in a year, not seven years ahead, and created another debt of one trillion crowns. [[no]] That's a number no one's ever said before. I beg you to see beyond your mandate to see the future, our children and future Members, whom you and who later will pull their hair out and say, Jesus, no one has told us! It's one trillion crowns. In your vote, consider this figure of value and what our future is worth. Our future is worth one trillion crowns of debt? I don't think so. Thank you for your attention and I ask you to reject this proposal and prepare a new law and prepare it according to the rules and real economic growth that will be next year, not at a time when we are plotting from the crystal ball. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u49	Thank you, Mr. Senator. I'm asking the secretary if he's interested in the final word. Yes. The final word of the Vice-President of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me sum up the debate that was going on here. Well, I have to agree that this has become a real election debate, instead of sticking to the substance of this law and the substance of this legal problem, because that's what it's all about, whether we can just loosen up the fiscal rule next year or not. Me and the expert apparatus of the Ministry of Finance, which, by the way, the government that voted on it, we can't say we can't, we would have to consolidate, Madam President of the National Budget Board, Ms. Dr. Zamrazilová, who I appreciate, and I am grateful for the expert debate, says we can, so please hold on to that. [[11.00 hours]] For the temporary measure. I do not agree with the Senator in any way, because the European Commission has temporarily loosened the fiscal framework in order to allow a temporary deviation from the medium-term budgetary objective. But the subsequent consolidation, as I said, is already in full compliance with European rules. Or does anyone think we're going to delay the structural break, and then we're going to make a fatal cut again next year? How should we do that? And it doesn't touch the level in this country? Doesn't it touch the pensions? What do you promise, Mr. MP Skopečka? How could that not affect pensions? And if it hadn't touched them, it would have affected the valorization. Remember, I don't want to remind you of what happened ten years ago. At that time, 110 billion were consolidated. Now we could consolidate 150 billion. So please be correct. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I would also like to say about the medium-term issue that concerns the problem, not just this year. The Czech fiscal rule is very hard. Its escape clauses are strict and only apply to the year when the adverse situation occurs. The Treasury Department under the leadership of today's Prime Minister, then Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, didn't want it like this. They sent a racing horse to the Chamber of Deputies. The kind they have in all EU countries. I've had my permanent representation process the benchmark. The Germans have it so, already in March they loosened their national fiscal rule, set their consolidation for 20 years and start in 2023. We say we set it up from next year to seven years to get to the same structural balance we had before the pandemic. That means, that's the basic problem. Because we're in a completely unprecedented situation. And the racehorse that Andrej Babiš sent there, and from the Chamber of Deputies, as I said in the Senate, came a camel. A camel that made us more papal than the Pope. That's why we're where we are. That is why we simply need to free up this structural balance. Because this extraordinary situation requires extraordinary solutions. Because shutting down most of the economy was to protect the health of the population. So we can't expect to be able to go back to the same level next year. It's not to be expected. Or, as you think, this deficit, for which we will vote today or tomorrow, I don't know what's on the agenda, about a state budget amendment with a deficit of 300 billion. We have 200 billion. How could this not be reflected in the budget of 2021 and subsequently in other budgetary frameworks? Furthermore, it is not true that we broke the legal limit before the recession. The tightening of the medium-term budgetary target from minus 1% of GDP to 0,75 only takes place for 2020. Not for 2019. I've had tables here since 2007, I can read you the structural balance. In 2019, the medium-term budgetary objective was less than 1% of GDP that we achieved. Here I would like to draw attention to the fact that the one-off measures are, of course, only reflected in 2020. It has also fallen that the National Budget Board is to assess one-off transitional measures. Yes, but there's no way he can veto them. And I've always appreciated the National Budget Board's opinion. It is also true that excessive disengagement of fiscal rules could damage the rating of the Czech Republic. That is why we are also setting out a credible and legal clear consolidation strategy. And do we really believe that if we cross our way through to the second recession, there will be no funds, because income is going to fall and social benefits will increase? So he stays a rating? Is that what we think? That if we do it the way you're proposing, we're left with the rating of the rating agencies? Well, I'm telling you, he's not staying. He just won't stay. The debt. Sure. The Czech Republic's debt cannot be the same as the advanced economies. But the debt of 42 percent, which we expect after the increase in this deficit, again reminds us that this is the expected peak of debt, the peak. There is nothing dramatic in the context of the depth of the pandemic or in the international context that would shake markets. Let us remember that we were beginning with a macroeconomic situation where the debt of the state budget was 29 per cent of GDP and a little over 30 per cent of GDP in public budgets, and it was the third lowest debt in the EU. So compare the numbers we have here. And I say you can't do it without interfering with this law. I'm bohužel not. I'm bohužel not. Because the law came out of this Chamber of Deputies, or the previous one, in a different parliamentary term, simply in a different structure than the Ministry of Finance had sent it there at the time, and before it corresponded to all EU countries, as they have set it up in their national legislation. As far as short-term stimulation is concerned, here again I would like to disagree with Dr. Zamrazilová. Because I don't think we can understand it that way, like she says. This is measured by disbanding the structural balance. However, this means for 2020 and the proposal for a higher structural balance for 2021 that stimulation is taking place this year and next year. And we propose, once again, I propose, once again, a completely transparent and clearly defined consolidation. I repeat, at least 30 billion. per year. I'd like to remind you of that. I'd like to make a note of Mrs. Kovářová here. Funds in direct connection with pandemics have passed away from the need to supplement reserves in the health system next year. And I bet you're all gonna raise a hand here for that bill that's gonna come forward sometime on the agenda, I think today, Minister of Health. They are and will be spent just this year. It's over 20 billion, some 21 or 22 billion. So what I repeat in my opening words is an unprecedented decline in income. Again, the escape clause, not a one-time and transitional measure, cannot apply. It's a legally theoretical problem. So it's not really about spending new as it is about keeping the expenses existing. After all, I would like to remind you that I will try briefly that the law we are talking about today contains a fiscal rule based on a structural balance, i.e. on a balance of public finances net of the effects of the business cycle and one-off and transitional measures. And the value of this balance is then determined by binding expenditure frameworks for the state budget and state funds. Thus, the government must then stick to the deduced boundaries in drawing up the draft state budget and its medium-term outlook. This means that the stated opinion of the National Budget Board states that the current wording of the law does not limit the government's fiscal space by its 1% limit of the structural deficit, because the law contains two institutes, one-off and transitional measures and the so-called escape clause. Unfortunately, neither option can be used. They cannot be used by the advice recommended by the escape clause because they are listed in Section 10 (4) and relate only to the current year. That's the whole point. That they can only be used in the current year. Indeed, we can have, as Mr Kalousek said, 500 billion in 2020. deficit. We can, but we cannot, under the current law, project it by 2021. How are we supposed to do that? How are we supposed to do that? That's the whole point. About the whole how. Well, it's the only way we're gonna cut it. We've crossed it out, we've already got the experience here. Or they raised taxes. Do we want it? I don't think we want that. So basically, the emergency situation and the economic downturn aren't expected next year. I suppose no one here believes that there will be no such thing next year. This was confirmed both by the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts and by the International Monetary Fund. This means that both of these institutions do not expect the economy to fall next year. Yes, you are right, President Kalousek, that in 2021 the Ministry of Finance estimates a macroeconomic prediction of about 3.1 percent. But we're coming from the basement. If it was 3.1 and it was 2.1 growth in 2020, well, I'd be thrilled. I'm the first to be Secretary of Finance. But if we now have an estimate of minus 5.6 percent of GDP, plus minus we agree with the International Monetary Fund, which says for the Czech Republic about minus 6.5 percent of GDP, that's plus minus the same, so we go from the basement. You know that. From the basement. So the base is down there somewhere. So 3.1 definitely isn't any happy news if we're going out of these conditions. [[11.10 hours]] So I repeat, it's not a blank check for the government. If I overlook the fact that this Chamber of Deputies will approve the budget anyway, she will decide on spending and income, here we will argue about it and argue about it. So we're actually going to say what is and what isn't. And I certainly don't think we're gonna be able to find cutbacks for 150 billion. Where would you look for them? [[Permanent noise in the hall.]] So you said we had to keep our pensions, which we rarely agree on. You've all raised your hand for all the valorization and raising pensions. I don't think we're gonna let the teachers go, we're not gonna cut off all the civil servants at county health stations, the employment offices, but even at the Financial Administration, which we're in process of today's 25th, and--
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u51	Madam Secretary, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House again for peace. There's a lot of noise here, and those who are having a debate about something other than the 812 press in a legislative emergency, please lead him in the foyer. There's noise coming from here, too, because the door is open for hygiene reasons. But please really leave the one who has the floor to give his speech. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u52	I'll be done soon. That means you probably won't find it in 150 billion. cuts. I don't blame you, I wouldn't find them either, unless we want to frustrate our citizens, our companies even more than they're frustrated now. And that's why we need the novel. It's all about a legal theoretical problem. Or do we cut the investment? We've been through that, too. I guess we don't want that either, since the economy has to be the engine of investment. And not only the 20th century, but also the 21st century. Or are we releasing soldiers, police officers, customs officers, firemen? I think we can agree that we certainly can't. Today we are in the state of civil servants almost, almost, at number 2 013 after the adjustments we made in 2019 and 2020. Unfortunately, it happened in the previous Chamber of Deputies that, when this law was being discussed, the proverb was poured out with the child, and if the law had not simply castrated here, if it had remained in the wording of the former Minister of Finance, if it had remained the way most countries had, if not all, the European Union, we did not have to deal with the problem today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u53	Thank you for the final words of the Deputy Prime Minister and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. I have two applications outside the debate. First Mr Kalousek, then Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, Chairman of the ODS Club. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u54	I don't want to take too long, but this sigh, Madam Secretary, if the law hadn't been neutered here... For proboha's sake, who are you addressing with that sigh, Madam Secretary? You guys had most of it here. I can sigh that if the Civil Service Act, in the form in which it was approved, had not been approved, the aesthetics could not sit in the government and many things could have been different. But I was the one with the minority back then. But you had most of it. So what can you complain about that law being regulated in your government majority? But that's not what I wanted to talk about. That's not what I signed up for. I wanted to sign up not to argue whether or not he has 3% deficits at the time of the growth cycle, whether we're coming from the basement or from the first floor. Just procyclical debt is harmful. But we'd just have this conversation here until tonight, and I don't want to continue it. I have a request regarding your constant challenges as to how we're supposed to pull together. We are very often prepared for this, as you can see, because we accept legislative distress, we approve government measures that we consider reasonable. But this is a completely controversial law, which, even if it relates to the National Budget Council - because, after all, he was approved on the same commitment that the Budget Board was established on the basis of. Fiscalcompact wants us to have a law on budgetary responsibility and to have a National Budget Board. Both have happened. And this proposal is in fundamental conflict with the National Budget Council, whose respect and respect we all agree on here. It is also in fundamental conflict with the Senate's position. The Senate rejected the motion not by a vote or by two votes. The Senate rejected the motion at a rate of nine to one, 33 votes voted against, three votes supported it. This means that two important institutions, the Senate and the National Budget Board, regard this proposal as harmful to the Czech Republic. Do you really think that pulling this together, ladies and gentlemen, is that, although both of these institutions are clearly arguing in a non-political way, why are they convinced that the law will damage the Czech Republic, so you want to pull it together so that you can make it by one or two votes anyway? That's not pulling together. It's just arrogance and arrogance! And I beg you very much not to commit it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u55	That was a speech outside the debate of President Kalousek, now President Stanjura. I also note the request made by the President of the National Budget Board, but since we are out of the debate, I cannot give her the floor. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u56	Mr Vice-President, we can, if the House decides to do so, and at the end of my speech, I will put forward the procedural motion and decide by vote. It seems correct to me, because if the Minister had spoken in the course of the debate, the President could have responded. It can't be like this, it's not fair. However, I would like to respond to the Minister's speech, and I would like to point out those passages where you were contradicting. I greatly Zamrazilová, very much appreciate and appreciate the expertise of the National Budget Board. But if the National Budget Board happens to have a different professional opinion than I do, don't be mad at me, it'll be my way. Where's the respect and the respect for the expertise? Nowhere. Madam Secretary told us: I respect them, they're great, but if they don't agree with me, it's just gonna be my way. Such a favorite - I like it too - a favorite political negotiation: if you agree with me, we will definitely make a deal. That's pretty good, but it doesn't really work. The Minister has repeatedly used an analogy, such a caricature, which is used very often by President Kalousek, that at the beginning there is a horse and at the end there is a camel. So I took the job and looked into the last parliamentary term at the House press, what were the amendments, what was adopted and what was not adopted. Yes, I had many amendments, but the majority rejected them. The press is basically identical to the horse that Andrej Babiš sent here. Only the secretary doesn't seem to know, and he calls the horse that Andrej Babiš sent here a camel. I don't understand. Whoever doesn't believe me, look into the press, House press on the web, give another term of office to the House, last time, find the two prints, both the constitutional law and the simple one. We didn't change anything there, or you didn't change anything there, what you had most of it. We didn't vote for it. That means we were trying to make the law constitutional. You turned down your hand from the opposition. And it happened exactly what we warned about. Any government majority will bend that law whenever they need to do something. And that constitutional majority had logic there, because then there would be a really wider political consensus. I don't remember the Czech government, which had a constitutional majority, maybe I'm wrong, but I don't remember the government that had a constitutional majority, plus in both chambers. It just wasn't, and it's not likely, because we have a diverse political spectrum. And that's what it was supposed to do. [[11.20 hours]] Yes, there may be situations where the government with the opposition, any government with any opposition can agree that the rules need to be changed. So no House turned Andrej Babiš's horse into Alena Schillerová's camel. It's still the same animal. Someone's more sympathetic to a horse, somebody's camel, whatever, but it's still the same animal when I use Madam Secretary's analogy. And if someone has changed it, then in the care of members of the YES, the CSSD - and also KDU, let's be honest about what the past government majority was like. So the Minister appreciates the expertise of the National Budget Board, but he doesn't give a damn about her expert opinions. She calls Andrej Babiš's horse a camel because it suits her. And it scares people. They're scaring people. Moreover, it is a flagrant violation of the state of legislative emergency. I would understand if we had numbers for June or July, first of all, how the budget is being implemented. We will be much wiser, there will be more precise forecasts for next year to get back to this in the normal legislative process. No, maybe a professional apparatus here, I don't know if the Secretary of State dares compare his expertise with the expertise of the National Economic Council, I don't. I just remembered that we extended Professor Pavel's mandate the other day in a great agreement in the Chamber of Deputies. He doesn't agree with the bill either. Then why did you vote for him, you from the YES movement? When, according to the Minister, he is not competent to assess such a key law, which belongs to the competence, virtually. assessment of the National Budget Board? Yes, of course he doesn't have the veto, that's logical, politicians decide. But for this, among other things, we have independent expert bodies. I don't remember if you applauded the camel's horse after approval, I don't remember, but all the risks came up. We were right about everything we said. But the key thing is, we don't need the law. That's the most important thing. Madam Secretary did not respond to the Senator's words about one trillion crowns. I thought it would be a key argument about the number. That means the number is true, or the secretary would argue with the number. I didn't. So the number the senator told us is just true. And all we can do today responsibly, reject this new law, feel free to start a political debate, wait for the numbers from the next months, then get back to it in peace and, if possible, find a broader political consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u57	Now still outside the debate, Mr Bartošek. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u58	Thank you. I volunteered so the docent could respond. Since the Minister has mentioned it several times in her final speech, I consider it polite that the person mentioned in the speech can respond adequately. So I'm making a procedural motion so that the docent can speak now. In the event that this procedural proposal fails, I ask you, dear ministers, for courage and bravery for one of you to speak and thus open the debate and allow it to speak politely in relation to the lady. It's common human decency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u59	There is a procedural proposal for Ms Zamrazilová, the President of the National Budget Board, to speak outside the debate. We will decide in the vote number fifty-four. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I will sing because I have asked a part of my colleagues and colleagues to hold discussions in the foyer. Once the number of applicants has settled, I will launch the vote number 54 and ask who agrees that the President of the National Budget Board should speak outside the debate. [[Noise in the hall.]] I've started voting 54, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 54, of the 182 present, for 94, against 5, the proposal was adopted. [[Applause, noise and restlessness in the hall.]] I ask the House for peace! We are outside the debate and the decision of the House by the resolution is given the floor by the President of the National Budget Board, Dr Zamrazilová. And once again, I ask the House for peace! Docent, wait a little longer! I really ask my colleagues in this discussion if they lead her to something other than 812 to lead her in the foyer! Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u60	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I know that you are determined, and I do not want to keep you. I know it's not a big chance to lean on our opinion, but I have to do everything I can to live up to my responsibilities and lose this fight honestly. It's just technically. We know you can't use an escape clause. We know that the escape clause cannot be used for the next year. For 2021, we recommend using the existing structural deficit area of around 100 billion. CZK and to this add one-off measures. One-off has the character that they are limited in time and cannot be repeated and are de facto purposeful. Moreover, according to the budgetary rules, the budget can still be worked on both the expenditure and the revenue side in August. And in August, we'll all be wiser. I would understand if the structural deficit requirement for 2021 had been increased to, say, 2%, for 2022 to 1,5, and the consolidation would have been shorter. I guess the debate would be a little different. Then I want to say that the European rule is tougher than our rule. Our home rule is softer, please. And on behalf of the European Commission, I have repeated questions about what is happening to us and how to do so with the Act on budgetary responsibility. Anyone who knows me knows that I myself would certainly never turn to European institutions. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] And now I'm gonna finish the last sentence with the camel. Maybe it's a camel. He's only three years old, and he's a pretty good breakup. Please consider crippling him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-002-011.u61	Thank you. And since the debate has been closed and no one with priority rights is reporting anymore, we will vote. [[The President speaks in a lasting round of applause]] First of all, the procedure under Paragraph 97 (2) (a) of the EC Treaty. 3 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Since the motion was rejected in the Senate, it is necessary to set 101. It's not a change, it's a motion rejected by the Senate. And it's set. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 23/2017 Coll., on Rules of Budget Responsibility, as amended by Act No. 277/2019 Coll., according to the House's Press 812/3.' I've started voting number 55 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 55, from 187 in favour of 101 Members, against 83. The motion was accepted. I'm stating that the law has been passed. Thank you, Minister of Finance, thank you, Mr. Senator, end of item 11. [[11.30 hours]] We'll continue with point number
