ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-007-028.u1	28. Government bill amending Act No. 22/1997 Coll., on Technical Requirements for Products and on Amendment and Supplement to Certain Acts, as amended, and Act No. 90/2016 Coll., on the assessment of conformity of specified products when making them available on the market, as amended /German press 644/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-007-028.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-007-028.u3	Minister, I will interrupt you and ask for even more peace in the hall. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-007-028.u4	I'll just finish. Dear Members, the bill amends two laws on product conformity assessment and governs these laws in three areas. The first area is the introduction of so-called sponsored access to technical standards and other technical documents, which will mean an obligation for ministries and other central authorities of state administration to provide free access to technical standards with the Czech Agency for Standardization. We consider that important. The proposed regulation will make a major contribution, in particular to the business sector, which will thus be made available free of charge to all legislation that is bound by technical standards and other technical documents. It's been discussed for a long time. We think that this is a very helpful step that the business environment has been calling for for many years. The second area for which this proposal is therefore important is ensuring the partial implementation of two European Union regulations in the field of medical devices, namely the regulation on medical devices and the regulation on diagnostic environments, so-called in vitro, with the obligation for a Member State to designate an authority to ensure the appointment and notification of bodies, and this body will be the Office for Technical Standardization, Metrology and State Testing in the Czech Republic. The third area is the adaptation of the accreditation process, at the Czech Accreditation Institute, which is also important and simplifies everything a bit. At present, the applicant for accreditation may appeal against the decision of the accreditation body, namely the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and thus the proposed proposal moves this power to decide the appeal against the decision of the accreditation body with the MIT to the statutory body of the accreditation body, namely its director. So it will simplify, and we think that there will be no negative influence. The proposed bill is fully in line with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, international treaties. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to give your consent to the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-007-028.u5	Thank you and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, which is Mr Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-007-028.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this time I will be very short. I very much welcome the fact that the government has decided to solve the problem of standards, Czech state standards and fees to authors for these standards, which has long been returning to the House's land, and we have not been able to solve it in time. We feel that by law we have some binding standards that are regulated in the law. And access to these standards is quite problematic. Entrepreneurs experience it, designers experience it, even universities experience it. These face the problem of the impossibility of using this author protected works such as Czech state standards. There's only one thing I want to point out. I would be very pleased, the Minister mentioned this in part in his speech, if it were possible to find agreement that this free access to standards would not be limited only to those legally binding, but for those groups appointed in the law, it was for all standards. So I would be very happy if it wasn't just about the narrow belt of standards that we already have in the law somewhere, and they should be free of charge, but to make that form of free use for the fact that the State is paying for it, it is up to all the standards used by the particular group of people listed in this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-007-028.u7	Thank you, too. I am opening a general debate. Before I give my word, I'll introduce you to the note. Mr Výborný apologies for today's meeting from 13.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Bojko apologizes today from 13.15 to the end of the day for personal reasons. Mr Vácha apologizes between 13:00 and 14:00 for family reasons. And Mrs Hyťhová apologises from 12.45 until the end of the day for personal reasons. Now, then, for the debate. Anyone reporting for the general debate? Mr. Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-007-028.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, thank you very much to the Government for submitting this bill to the Government, because I tried about five years ago to keep this state's own laws. At the time, there was a provision in the Construction Act that the State must provide technical standards that are binding in the construction sector. The state didn't do it then, didn't follow its own laws. And at that time, I was able to enforce at the Supreme Administrative Court that the State really had to provide me with those technical standards. In the end, he was making excuses for not knowing which ones are in construction, so he provided me with all the technical standards. So I have all the technical standards at home. But to make those technical standards public, there were only a few cases where the technical standards hang on the website. Then, of course, in some way, the CSSD ruled, then Mr. Mládek came. When he found out that I had received all the technical standards, he pushed for a very quick amendment to the law and the free accessibility of the standards in the construction law was deleted. And it hasn't been in the building bill since. At the time, we were discussing with the President of that office that the State should ensure free access to at least those technical standards where there is a legal obligation to comply with them. After all, it is not possible for us to force people in charge of electricity in construction to buy some standards that we force them to follow, nor have we given them access to them. It seems to me that it's completely inadequate that if the state gives someone that duty, then it should also provide the information. So we actually prepared a bill that introduced free access to these technical standards. And on the basis of negotiations with the Agency and with the Ministry, at that time the Minister was not yet in his office, we were able to convince ourselves that at least the sponsored approach would be established, as recommended by the Parliamentary Institute, that it works in some states of the European Union, and that this is a solution that is also in line with the rules of international organisations that essentially claim copyright so that they could collect money across Europe for those technical standards that are equally, in some part, subsidized from public funds. I think that the problem is also international, because, after all, when something is formed in the participation of a huge number of states partly subsidized from taxpayers' money, part of course it is also paid from the fees, or from what industry is putting into it, so we should strive to make technical standards more publicly available. And that is what we should strive for in this dialogue with the international organisations CETELEC, CEN etc., so that they also know that we are interested in moving this forward over the next few years or decades and at least part of these standards is simply made publicly available free of charge. Of course, technical implementation in the form of a sponsored approach, which is basically the subsidization of the institution that produces it, or some form of hidden subsidy on the basis of a certain mass contract, leads to a person's having to log into it somehow, he has to report somewhere, somehow it is being watched. The question is, if it's even necessary, if it's worth it to the state, because then the technical security of the document has to be done. So I think that in some cases it would simply be easier - where it is possible, because in some cases it is actually possible, where it is necessary standards that we create ourselves, which are not created, let's say harmonisedly, it is of course a smaller part, it is a substantially smaller part, but such standards exist, so I would probably place it there free of charge on the website. I am very pleased that we have managed to get into a state where the citizen has or will be able to download the standards that are mandatory. Given the fact that I pushed for this before I was elected to the Chamber of Deputies, I received dozens of e-mails asking me how it shifted after I achieved victory over officials who did not want to fulfil the legal obligation to provide those standards. So now I'm very happy that we've managed to reverse this, that the law is being passed directly by the government, and that now we're gonna make it easier for a lot of people who use technical standards, a lot of businessmen who won't have to pay, like, two grand for access to technical standards unless they need an extensive set, and that we're gonna make their lives easier on this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-007-028.u9	Thank you. Mr Jiránek is also reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-007-028.u10	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. I'm just gonna fill in my colleague real quick. I have to summarize that discussions with representatives of the Office for Technical Standardization, Metrology and State Testing - a beautiful name - and with the Czech Agency for Standardization were a little more complicated at the beginning, because we had significantly different views on the matter. But I have to say, during that year and a half, the debate was getting into some sort of alignment of ideas. And I really want to thank both authorities for having a constructive conversation with them and achieving that sponsored approach, because, as my colleague has already presented, there is a really fundamental change in the perception of the state's view of technical standards. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-007-028.u11	Thank you, too. That was the last application for a general debate at the moment. If no one else is reporting from the scene, I am ending the general debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final words by the appellant or rapporteur. It's not like that. I believe that there have been no proposals that we should now vote on, so we will consider the proposal on the commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to any other committee as a guarantee? If that is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote. There's a checkout request. I'll check you out. I've already called my colleagues to the O.R. Please log in with your cards again. When the number of applicants settles, we'll vote, I'll repeat what for the arrivals. We will vote that this proposal be directed to the Committee of Economics as a committee of guarantee. Looks like our numbers are stable. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 105 Members and Members in the 103 vote, for 104, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have ordered the proposal to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Organisational Committee did not propose to order the next committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? This is not the case, so this is the end of the discussion of this press at the moment. I thank the appellant and the rapporteur. And we can move on. [[13.40 hours]] Furthermore, there is paragraph 31, which is a government bill amending Act No. 499/2004 Coll., on archival and writing services, which is the House press 534, however, the Interior Minister is excused, so it is not at this time to discuss it and the press is moving to the end of the block. Next up, there's a point number.
