ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the third day of the 41st meeting and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out, which I have just done, please sign up with your identification cards, or tell me who is asking for a replacement card. Mr Michálek votes with a replacement card number 16. I hereby declare that the reasons for not taking part in the proceedings were requested by the following Members: Dana Balcarová within 11 hours - králíček grounds, Ivan Bartoš from 14.30 - Julius Špičák, Martin Baxa within 11 hours - Michal Pěnčíková, Ratiborský Mašek - Patrik Nacher, Josef Bělice - Milan grounds, Karel Bělobrádek - Ivo Vondrák, Stanislav Berkovec - Roman Onderka, Novák Schiller - Jan Jiří, Kupka Bláha - personal Antonín, Dominik Feri within 11 hours - Sklenák Krutáková, Eva Fialová - Vojtěch Munzar, Zahradníková Foldyna from 10 hours - Zuzana grounds, Petr Vrána - Věra Ožanová, Tomáš Hanzel - Kovářová grounds, Ivan Jáč - Maříková days - medical Vyzula, Pikal Juránek - Radek Zlesák, Nevludová - working grounds, Pavel Juříček - Ivana grounds, Czech Republic Pavel Žáček - a foreign trip. The members of the government apologize: Andrej Babiš until 14.30 - working reasons, Marie Benešová until 14.30 - working reasons, Klára Dostálová - working reasons, Jana Maláčová - working reasons, Tomáš Petříček - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Alena Schillerová within 13 hours - working reasons, Miroslav Toman from 14.30 - working reasons, Adam Vojtěch - foreign trip, Zaorálek Lubomír - working reasons. With the replacement card number 17, Mrs Balcarová votes. I also have apologies - from 9 to 11 o'clock she apologises for the reasons of work of Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Mr Jiří Mihola apologizes between 9.00 and 11.00 for the reasons of work, Mr Pavel Blažek is on Thursday 5. 3. apologizes from 11 to 13.00 for reasons of work, Mr František Kopřiva apologizes from 9 to 11 o'clock for reasons of work, Ms Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes from 9 to 15 o'clock for reasons of health, Mr Jan Volný from 11 to 15 o'clock for reasons of health, Mr Lubomír Metnar apologizes from 9 to 16 o'clock for reasons of work. Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 257 - Responses from members of the government to written interpelations. Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted within 11 hours at the latest and their lottery draw will then take place. In this more modest line-up, I would like to wish Mr Lukáš Kolářík, who is celebrating his birthday today. I see him, I see him. Happy birthday. [[Let's hear it.]] And so we will proceed with the approved agenda of the meeting. Opening point
