ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u1	2. Groups of citizens who did not receive assistance I ask that the words be taken by the representatives of the appellants, Mrs Olga Richterová, and if she agrees, she will also become rapporteur. I'll ask the plaintiff. And I'm going to ask all of you in the courtroom who want to stay and listen to you stay here and listen, but calmly, please. And if you want to deal with other things, please solve them in the foyer. Thank you very much. I will ask Mrs Olga Richterová to introduce us to this proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u2	Thank you for your word. I would, of course, like to be the rapporteur on this point. - Just the noise?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u3	I understand, Madame. I think we'll wait for the emotions and passions to calm down here. We basically have time. [[There's a disturbance in the room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are against ourselves if we cannot calm down. [[After a while:]] It's still not what I imagined. [[An attempt by the Member to continue.]] Not yet. [[After a while:]] So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u4	Thank you for the floor. I also thank those colleagues who left the O.R., and now it's quiet. [[Fun in the hall.]] I would follow up on the words of the Secretary of Finance, who, unfortunately, is no longer here. There's only the Home Secretary, he's probably got a job for the whole government, thank you for that. The Minister of Finance said at about half an hour this afternoon: The most vulnerable have been helped. She said that she helped the most vulnerable government that she was a member. On this point, we are just proposing to discuss the situation of those groups of citizens who have not received assistance. I'm going to introduce to the plaintiff groups that we've identified in this way, which we've pointed out. I guess you can guess some of them. These are the people who worked on the agreements, and three times the draft compensation bonus was rejected in this House. There has also been an extensive discussion here about those tradesmen who have a small employment relationship. A little less, but people in executions have also been mentioned here. And then there's another group that hasn't talked about yet, but where help hasn't grown up, but help of another type, and that's what I'm gonna get to. To begin with, I would like to briefly introduce you to the numbers, to the extent that we are talking about. There are some 860,000 people in the country who are in the process of executions and insolvencys. Nearly a million people in executions and insolvencys. These people often work in positions that are low-skilled and are severely threatened by unemployment. We assume that, in short, this group of people will only be fully affected by the crisis in the coming months. I would also like to mention that there are 420 thousand people in this country, almost half a million, 420 thousand people in disability. Of which 170,000 people have so-called. First degree and 75,000 people second degree, that's almost 250,000 people, a quarter of a million people in disability, who, and that's the number I want to tell you, have an average disability pension of either CZK 6,800 or CZK 7,900. For less than 7,000 and less than 8,000 lives are very, very difficult, so they are also people who have to make a different amount of money. It is also good to realize that people who have a full disability pension may not have any amount to survive from; Because they're fully disabled, they can be so-called without a paycheck. Let me sum it up. These groups of people work quite often on agreements - labor agreements, work agreements, and 220 thousand agreements are the official number for March, from which insurance payments were made. And the main appeal that I would like to put at the outset of this point is that if we admit that part of these agreements had a coincidence, that these people had two agreements at once, it is adequate to estimate that about 150,000 contractors who paid insurance premiums and for a large part were affected by the coronation, were left in the lurch. And the last number from this introduction, the extra immediate aid benefits that this government here absent, represented there to the benches turned by the Minister of the Interior, this government takes extra immediate assistance benefits as the only tool for these people, if they get into a very difficult situation, and the average most frequently provided amount of emergency immediate assistance is fifty-caliber to a maximum of 3,000. That's the mean from the MPSV again from the numbers published, I think, last week. So 50 grand to 3,000, that's the help that people are referred to, working on a deal and paying insurance. So much for opening up to the groups we can talk about, and I think you've been expecting it. I will also stress that we also have hundreds of thousands, namely 600,000 businessmen for the main job, 430 thousand businessmen for the side tradesmen, who are sort of side tradesmen, and these self-employed people can have a small employment relationship. So these are other people who have a big problem with the fact that even though they have been affected, even though their income has fallen very significantly, they will not reach the compensatory bonus. The last group that I think will surprise you are people who are supposed to decide on measures at the borders, municipalities, at different levels of self-government. I mean now, and maybe they didn't think of it, but a number of mayors and council members were left unaided in the area of information, and that is the last group I would like to highlight at the outset, which would benefit scientists' data, more widely accessible data on the course of the epidemic for the scientific community, because this would create tools for well-founded decisions of self-government. I'll give you an example. If you have a more detailed background as the mayor, as the captain, regarding, for example, how people are infected and how they drive, how they use their means of transport, you can decide whether to introduce - I will give a specific example - a separate bus for children driving to school, so that the school bus can isolate often unsigned young people from seniors using a regular scheduled bus to travel to a nearby town to the doctor. This type of decision whether to introduce an extra bus, whether to limit or allow local actions, requires detailed information. And it would help to make a much wider group of experts who could help municipalities and municipalities to model the possible development of the spread of the epidemic and could help with this decision-making. So this is the last group of people, citizens who have had very difficult decisions, and I believe that one of the lessons we can learn in the future is that it would also make the situation much easier for them to have more detailed and accessible information. So much for my introduction, and I'm canceling my application. I didn't realize I had the chance to perform like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u5	Thank you, too. I'll read the apologies. Vice-President Okamura apologizes until the end of the day for reasons of work, Mr Patrik Nacher apologises today between 15.15 and 19.00 until the end of the day for family reasons, and Mrs Eva Matyášová cancels her apology. At this point, I am launching a general debate, which Mrs Šafránková has signed up to. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SPD movement since the beginning of the pandemic and the introduction of emergency emergency measures, I draw attention to the shortcomings, gaps and errors in the system of helping citizens and companies affected by this situation. In this regard, we have tabled more than two dozen amendments to various special government regulations. All Members supporting the Government have been rejected. In doing so, we have proposed specific forms of direct and justified support and assistance to those who have lost their earnings from one day to the next, not from their own faults, especially those who have been forgotten or ignored by the government over time. These omissions bordering only with conscious discrimination concern, in particular, those groups of employees who work on work agreements and labour agreements, and also, or perhaps even more significantly, employees on part-time jobs, who are also registered tradesmen. The government has, in the vast majority, made it impossible for them to access a compensation bonus for self-employed workers, even in those cases where many of these citizens have only started working as employees after extraordinary measures have prevented them from operating their business and in order to ensure the basic life needs of themselves, their children and their families. In this way, the government has long ignored and ignored citizens with lower incomes, single parents, which is gradually putting the standard of living at risk in their careless children. Moreover, citizens working for agreements for a long time were not even entitled to emergency care for their children due to the closure of schools and kindergartens. After all, they are still not entitled to the position of self-employed persons. And from the position of employees to so-called agreements, only some of them are entitled to this infirmary, and not since the beginning of the quarantine, and even in significantly lower financial volume than other traders. Why? In the approach to the compensatory bonus, the discriminated and neglected group is for no reason also co-owners of limited liability companies made up of more than two partners, often so-called self-employed, often those who were forced to close their establishments for a significant time. And also the companions of small family companies who do not correspond to the arbitrary innovative government definition of a family that has no support in the Civil Code, in traditions and even in the practice of normal life. In addition, small limited liability companies, where the partners are often their only employees, are also a group that is discriminated against by the entrepreneurs, both in terms of the aforementioned compensatory bonus and in terms of deferment or remission of compulsory insurance contributions. If we look even closer at an emergency infirmary, the form of which has passed through various peripetia, we can also define some discriminated groups of citizens here. In addition to the employees already mentioned in the labour agreements or work activities, tradesmen at all levels of disability are discriminated against in access to this infirmary and, in a broader sense, the singles and singles again, because often they cannot be replaced in the care of children, because government Members have repeatedly rejected our proposal to take care of their children during emergency measures, even if they do not share a common household. It is no shame, moreover, at this hectic time, which we are witnessing and direct participants, to sometimes make a mistake in legislative or executive work. But it is inexcusable to insist on and harm some of our citizens. Moreover, citizens in a difficult social and existential situation. This stubbornness, unwillingness to listen and unaddressedness, solidarity and injustice in the area of state financial assistance and in compensation for the impact of emergency on certain groups of our fellow citizens is what we now blame the government most. However, we in the SPD do not give up, and we think of our honest-working decent citizens in the beginning, and we will continue to fight for their legitimate interests. Therefore, I propose that we vote on the resolution in the following text: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to present a legislative proposal by 8 June 2020 to eliminate discrimination against employees on part-time jobs and on agreements outside the main employment relationship in terms of their access to financial assistance and to compensate for losses in their income as a result of the introduction of emergency emergency measures in connection with the pandemic of the COVID-19 virus, in particular to eliminate their discrimination on access to the so-called compensatory bonus within the meaning of Act No. 159/2020 Coll.' I would also like to propose that we also vote on our second resolution, which concerns so-called emergency aid, which is a special dose of material emergency, because this benefit is the only option for those citizens that the government has forgotten under emergency conditions, and because we have information from practice that there are often problems associated with its payment. This resolution is amended as follows: "Deputy Chamber of Deputies I. Points out that a one-time benefit of assistance in material distress, emergency immediate assistance, is the main instrument of a state providing assistance to people who are proven to be affected by a lack of funds in existential distress due to an adverse and extraordinary situation; II. Calls on the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, through the Government, that due to the long-term criticism of the effectiveness of the benefit, emergency immediate assistance, which has only been stepped up in connection with the crisis measures related to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, should be implemented by system measures; III. Calls on the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, through the Government, to ensure that, in view of the low value of the average allocated amount, so-called emergency aid, this benefit is not automatically restricted to applicants living on the poverty line, but also to help protect the medium-income part of the population from falling into a debt trap or from losing housing, and also to revise the relevant methodological guidelines in this respect; IV. Calls on the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, through the Government, to inform the general public as a preventive measure of the nature of emergency immediate assistance, with an emphasis on the medium-income part of the population, which is not the normal recipient of benefits in material distress; V. requests, through the Government of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, to submit to the Chamber of Deputies, by 16 June 2020, a detailed analysis of the granted benefits of assistance in material distress, emergency immediate assistance, both nationally and across individual districts in the reference period from 1 March 2020 to 31 May 2020, including: 1. the number of applications submitted, rejected and approved, 2. relative activity (?) the main grounds for rejecting the applications submitted, 3. the total financial amount of all applications submitted and all approved applications, 4. information on how many applicants applied for this benefit in categories up to CZK 5 000, 6 to CZK 10 000, 11 to 20 000, 21 to 30 000 CZK, 31 to 40 000 CZK, 41 to 50 000 CZK and 5 to 57 900 CZK, how many applicants were granted in these categories and what are the prevailing reasons why the claim for the benefit was rejected in that category, [[1000]] 5. details of how many applicants requested this allowance to cover their life needs for which they did not have the money left after payment of the mortgage due to short-term income loss, 6. details of how many applicants requested this benefit for extraordinary payment of rent due to short-term income loss, 7. details of how many applications have been rejected and how many have been approved within 2 days, 3 to 5 days, 6 to 10 days, 11 to 15 days and 16 to 30 days.' Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u7	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Marek Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u8	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I have somehow come to the impression that Mrs Richterová has already spoken in the general debate, or my factual point is that she is speaking. I'm joining what she said. Of course, these groups are referred to here over the long term, whether they're contractors. I could describe here one story that I've personally learned, the story of a mother who cares for her grown son with severe autistic disabilities, the combined flaws that she had to have because she can't leave him in a residential facility for a long time, to take him home. She lost her job. In fact, it completely fell through the sieve, because there was no form of help for this woman. But what I would like to say maybe a little bit in the right direction and towards us, to the House, is the question also mentioned here, these are people in executions and insolvencys. First, it is necessary to distinguish insolvency and enforcement proceedings. And I think that we, too, have done an honest job here in the House, because if you remember the 807, lex covid justice, it was one of the few laws where the government, in this case the Ministry of Justice, was able to say and accept the proposals of Members across the parliamentary clubs, when we took some things out of the law, because we did not consider them to be things that should be voted on in a legislative emergency, but, on the contrary, we delivered the very measures that helped at that moment and these days help people with executions, because, for example, until 30 June, if I am not mistaken, the moratorium is on the performance of the mobile executions, as well as on the sale and auction of real estates. And so, in the insolvency law, we gave some moratoriums, for example, if one of the reasons that would have been created in COVID-19 did not reach 30% of the obligation under the insolvency law, so - the last sentence - would have lost the debt relief. [[Time warning]] So I think we've done a lot of work here, and we've helped these people, and we're gonna keep helping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u9	Thank you. Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will speak in the general debate. Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u10	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize a little in advance, I will be longer than my custom. [[only Minister Schiller and Dostálová are present in the government bench]] But let me say some things here after all. I want to start by saying that maintaining employment and helping all those who really need it is essential for us Social Democrats not to leave people without money. Why? Well, there's the secretary, most of the women in this room, although it doesn't match the gender distribution in the House, so at this point, there are women. [[There are 18 women and 15 men present in the hall.]] And what am I gonna do as a woman, as a housewife, when my income goes down at home? First of all, I'll see what I don't need, what I don't have to buy, what I can do on my own. And that means limiting the economy, limiting the economy. So all the programs that the government adopted, whether those that went through the MPSV, but also all the others, were going to make sure that people didn't stay without income, so that the economy wouldn't stop altogether. It was important for us to maintain employment. Those who needed help during the emergency situation were families with children, employees, companies including eseróček. I say again - to maintain employment. Self-employed persons also received 17 billion of support. By the way, it's the biggest of the packages the government has provided. It's just a quick recap. Czech Social Security Administration as at 1. 6. Records 253 270 applications for sick leave due to school closure, of which 0.19 per cent are applications from those so-called contractors, from those working on work agreements and work agreements. The treatment for March and April is already paid in the vast majority of cases. Only 2,3% of doses are investigated. Here it must be said and pointed out that the date of receipt of supporting documents from the employer to the relevant district social security administration is crucial from the point of view of payment of benefits. Thus, it is not a time when a parent gives the evidence to his employer. It often happens that the employer sends the documents with some delay. Half of these benefits are processed according to MPSV within 10 days, the legal period is, I remind you, a month after delivery of the complete documents from the employer. For the sake of interest, only the amounts relating to the level of the infirmary. At a gross wage of 20,000, a net wage, where no discount is applied to the child, i.e. 15 856 CZK, the infirmary classic of 60 per cent of the daily assessment base would be 10 680. Now after the pandemic treatment, the infirmary has increased to 80 percent of the daily measuring base and is 14 220 CZK. Deal with the clean pay. That means those people didn't have exactly what they got in the clean, but the difference wasn't big. Likewise, if I were to take a gross salary of 28,000, the net wage would be 21 370, the normal infirmary would be 14 940 and the infirmary now in that 80 percent is 19 920. To this end, I would like to stress that women are also employed to a high degree in regional social security administrations, as well as in labour offices, but also in financial offices. In the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, these employees processed four times more cases than usual. And it should be recalled that there were also women infirmary, they had to stay at home with their children because they had to take care of them when schools were closed and often kindergartens. Even these women in the state administration deserve a great thank you. So far, it's more of a criticism that everything didn't work out the way it was supposed to. I really thank them. I can imagine what kind of work they had, what kind of work they have, and which I guess they're still waiting for. The opposition was criticised by bureaucracy in the payment of benefits. And I'd really like to hear what would happen if somewhere it turns out that some office, some worker, paid off something without having it backed up. She'd just have criminal proceedings and everything to do with it. [[15.20 hours]] I'm not going to talk about how Antivirus programs work. If the Secretary of State were here, I believe he'd come back, he'd be able to unload it, and there's material for that. I will just say again and stress that the common objective of all programmes was to maintain high employment. Antivirus is, from this point of view, of course, advantageous for employees when income declines. For employers who have not lost highly qualified, and for their firms and for the restoration of the operation of their companies important employees. But in the end, even for a state that saves on welfare benefits. The big debate was here around the so-called. Dealers. Mrs Richterová repeatedly urges that the situation of the negotiators be resolved, and it seems as if they are the only ones who are paying for the whole pandemic. But no one's to blame, we just have to deal with it ourselves. So let's make a deal. The essence of the agreements is flexibility. That means the employer assigns the job according to the way he has it. I mean, irregularly. Thus, the amount of remuneration from the agreements varies mostly. I must say, recall that the agreement to carry out work means 300 hours a year. And a work agreement can be concluded at a level of essentially half-time. Agreements are and have always been a supplementary way of employment in the Labour Code and are not the main way of securing employees within the company. When the company doesn't want to have its own employees in full employment, it usually orders orders from businessmen. Statistics on non-income brokers are such: most of the negotiators have additional sources of income according to the agreements. Of the 222 561 insurance brokers, it had 107 810, i.e. 48 per cent in addition to a classic-time agreement; 36 480, that's 16,4 percent, receiving a pension; 37 353, that's 16.8 percent, they're earning extra students. So we have a simple math of 40 896 negotiators left, which we don't know if they have any more income. It can be assumed that part of it is mothers with parental contributions and part is really without income. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs estimates that a major revenue gap will affect around 10,000 contractors with an insurance agreement. The solutions adopted by the government for these people who work and for whom work agreements or the execution of work have actually been a fundamental income are the following: they can, of course, ask for unemployment support or extraordinary immediate assistance, regular benefits of a material emergency of state social support. The negotiators have been compensated and are compensated if their incomes fall too low, they lose their jobs. But it can't be done across the board, see the statistics I quoted. There really is a recommendation when you don't assign work to a loss of income, and I repeat it again, ask for extra immediate help. It is not uncommon for these people to have extraordinary immediate help now ranging from 10 to 20,000 crowns. Maybe a little more. We were all or a large part of us watching Czech Television on Sunday night. I will turn aside because I have always defended and defended the public service media as a principle. They have to make the reference framework for the availability of objective information, for the quality of the programs, including the news. But it would be very good if they already reported cases of individual people, if they also asked the other party what it is in those cases. And there's information from the MPSV that the medialized cases weren't cases that asked for emergency emergency assistance in the COVID system. It has nothing to do with the extraordinary immediate aid caused by the loss of earnings. It was a request for help with the one-off expenses of those applicants. Spare the ticket, pay for the bedsider in the hostel. I am convinced that it is necessary to be fair, to maintain employment, to take care of employees. There is really no reason for a group to prefer itself at the expense of another group. Everyone needs help, and accordingly. All of my previous speakers at the first point, especially from the opposition, have been speaking here and explaining what should be done. For me, the coronavirus crisis, like any crisis, has shown that it is very important to have a functioning state. This is what social democracy has been saying for a long time and we have always tried to make it work this way in the Czech Republic. The fact that there aren't thousands dead in the Czech Republic as much as there are many others is due to the fact that the government immediately started to function. That the sanitation service started to work with quarantine, and they call it tracking. They tracked down the contacts of anyone who found out it was infectious. And, of course, all the other measures taken by the government. That's what the Minister of Culture, Mr. Zaorálek, was talking about. Of course, the whole system belongs to a functioning state - police, firefighters, but also to a health care system, education and social support system. These people, they're standing up and they're standing up. Maybe everything wasn't perfect, just like none of us are perfect. But it is important to learn. It is important to prepare for such a thing to happen again. And I don't want to talk about the second wave, but we don't know. There could be another germ, there could be a virus, something that we can't predict at this point. This means, however, that we must have the entire state administration prepared from providing material reserves through systems, through pandemic plans, through crisis plans to awareness among citizens. [[15.30 hours]] I therefore welcome the fact that yesterday we have already agreed to the creation of a commission here in the Chamber of Deputies to deal with this. And I believe that on the ground of this commission, which we have already approved yesterday, we can agree across the political parties and find a political consensus precisely in the preparation of crisis plans for possible future risks. I know I've been a little long, but let me remind you of things from my point of view. It has been confirmed that the most invulnerable group of citizens in need of help are singles and singles. The amount of 80 per cent of the sickbay, as I have mentioned and documented here, has more or less ensured to these groups that their incomes will not fall deeply, but, nevertheless, the incomes for them are also slightly lower. But the problem is, in many cases, these singles, and mostly women, really, have lost their nourishment. So it is high time to adopt a law on backed-up maintenance. I believe that the law, which is already before the Government's negotiations and will soon arrive in the Chamber of Deputies, will be passed here, and I look forward to the debate on it. Again, even in these cases, a system of emergency immediate assistance is set up, and only a few facts to do so. It was questioned here that this extraordinary immediate assistance could be effective. Let me just say a few numbers. It was submitted for April 4 543 applications, the applications paid were 1 748, the amount was CZK 7 374 763. In May, the applications submitted were less, but the applications were more, 2 168, and the amount was CZK 8 796 667. A total of 3 916 applications were reimbursed. The amount of up to 3,000 received 2 395 applicants, that is 61 %; 39 %, that is 1 521 applicants, received an amount higher than those 3,000. The second most common category of emergency emergency assistance paid ranges from 5 to 10,000. There it must be said that this extraordinary immediate aid equals the fall in income so that the family can have on basic needs, i.e. rent, food, hygienic needs. It therefore compares the income that the applicant had actually had before they became facts which deprived them of the full amount of its income. It should be said that there are also cases that these contributions of between 50 and 55 thousand were paid to households. There was a rumor that some of their requests were rejected. The three most common reasons, as we have the Labour Office and the Czech Social Security Administration, are that the applicant does not supply the necessary documents, statements from the account or lease agreement. It is not possible to compensate for loss of profit from this category, i.e. emergency immediate assistance. They give money for basic expenses. At this point, 11 percent of the applications are unprocessed, but this is because the necessary documents have not been provided. If anyone wants to, we can continue the debate. Another issue I wanted to talk about at this point is from a completely different case, ensuring conditions for distance education, teaching online, if you like, digitalisation. Today I send an interview to Minister Plaga and ask how they will ensure what people have with the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, and these are equal chances of education. As they provide for all children, even those who are now a little out of the education system just because they didn't have computer equipment or access to data. According to an analysis by the Czech School Inspectorate, which charted this during the pandemic crisis, the emergency situation is 16 percent of the children in primary schools. That's a non-negligible percentage. A similar percentage, it's slightly smaller, but it's also in high schools. We also need to look at this, and we need to talk about it, and we need to take action. We do not anticipate and hope that there will not be a situation that schools will have to close fully again, but digitalisation is essential at this point. And what we might say to ourselves is that this horror, which has in its own way met us all, that has touched every person in this country, if it has brought anything, any lesson and some challenge for the future, is that our schools have learned, have set up ways to work online, how to use modern computer techniques, how to use digitalisation for education. I believe we can do that for the future. Let me get this straight. For me as a social democrat, the most important are the health and lives of people, in general, employment and the position of employees in terms of the economy and the prosperity of the country. This succeeds at this point in supporting the Antivirus programmes and all the others that this government has already launched and we have supported and agreed here in the Chamber of Deputies. However, we are certainly looking for a way through the rapporteur's President to find a way to help even more singles, disabled people, disabled people, and others. Finally, let me say that thanks belong to all who make up a functioning state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u11	I thank the lady. Mrs Olga Richterová will make a point of fact, and she will be prepared with the right of priority, Minister Maláčová. I'll read the apologies. Mr Martin Kupka apologizes from 15.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mr Jan Čižinský from today's meeting from 15.20 to the end of the day. The Member and President of Rakušan from 15.00 to the end of the day due to the working session and Mrs Helena Válková apologizes today between 15.00 and 17.00 for reasons of work. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u12	Thank you for the floor. In a factual point, I want to clarify the figures that the honourable Member said regarding the emergency emergency aid levy. What I want to clarify is that the 220,000 agreements from which insurance was made, and the mop was the only solution for these people, when they get in distress, paid for the whole period from 1 March to 22 May 4 891 granted applications, less than 5,000 people received the mop for this period from the beginning of March to 22 May. And that's the first important discrepancy between those 220,000 contracts, between a lot of people in trouble and this low-paid number. Because the dose is difficult, it's a really detailed examination. [[15.40 hours]] And then most of these doses - for this period from April 1 to May 22 I wrote down where the award had already started to rise, so 2,100 people got something between 50 and 3,000, and then a sharp jump - 507 people got something between 5 and 10,000, and only 230 people are the 10- to 15,000. As the honourable Member suggested, people receive more than 10,000, so it is absolutely not based on figures, these are exceptions. All I'm saying is that I know that the emergency immediate assistance has worked out in the last few weeks, but the numbers have been talking like this until May 22.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u13	Well, thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Ivan Bartoš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u14	Thank you. I would also like, through the President, to respond to Mrs Gajdůškovášková and perhaps to recall why we are talking about the mop. Those benefits - and we have also created a Social System portal for you to look at in some difficult life situation, what you are entitled to when you get there, and how to proceed to help you in this situation. And we're talking about the mop here, especially because in those important proposals that really had an impact on 100, 150, 200,000 people, it wasn't just DPP and DPČ, it was raised several times as: we're not going to give them any of these measures, but this is the tool that these people can use, this Ministry can do. And if we look at the number of people who lost the other income, or the DPP, DPČ dropped out -- for example, the people who earned their disability pension, or the students, and then we look at the number of applications submitted, so just in the format as presented -- we don't approve a special bonus here, but here you can touch the MOP -- it doesn't really match at all. We're talking about thousands here, and on the other hand, we're talking about social democracy, and the voices of social democracy, that, in the continuance of the DEA and some other smaller agreements, you've denied these people the money with reference to the mop. So that's the big problem. A dysfunctional instrument, where thousands of units are admitted in 65 percent to 3,000 crowns, you built here on the weight of 150 to 200,000 people who paid their insurance, earning over 3 or over 10,000 crowns, so they denied the help. We discussed it three times in the House, twice even voted on it, and it has always been said - but there are other instruments. And the tools are obviously, but they're not meant for it, they're not working and they're not fit for the needs of the people who are in that life situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u15	Thank you. With priority rights, Minister Maláčová will perform. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech by recapitulating what the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has done in recent weeks to avoid letting anyone fall as a government as a result of the coronation. When we put it in that very detailed table at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - and believe that the last few weeks and months have been really exhausting - we have calculated 50 concrete steps. And I'd like to get to one by one. I'll divide it into three basic thematic units. They're laws, that is. those very demanding measures, then they're non-legislative steps, then they're social services, and then I'd like to comment on the individual statements that fall here. I'm sorry, I was late, I was in Sokolov this morning to deal with the very difficult situation of Sokolov coal. You know that Sokolov is a structurally affected region, there are up to thousands of people at risk of being fired, which can make the situation even more intense in this structurally disadvantaged region, but I will probably get to that too. I'd start with those laws. We - and I think that is the most important step - in the Czech Republic for the first time in history they started the program cursarbeit, the already known Antivirus, mode A and B, and it was a few days after the emergency status was announced. I know that we may not get recognition as a ministry or government, but anyone who knows the situation in Germany, where it has been drilled for several years and tested on several crises in the order really long, so it is a small miracle. To yesterday we supported 900,000 jobs under the Antivirus programme. 900,000 jobs. The Antivirus program is extended until the end of August and it is the most important tool that targets the most important group, i.e. For employees, for 3.1 million employees in the wage sector, which would probably lose part of their jobs, and if it weren't for the Antivirus program, we wouldn't have unemployment of 3.56 percent, but we'd be at least 10 percent by now. And these are not my opinions, but they are the views of economists who are in the government's NERV or are members of the economic advisory team of the Central Crisis Staff. You know, except for Antivirus A and B, i.e. 900 thousand supported jobs - and it has to be said that they are paid above wage compensation, which means that despite the massive support of the state, a large part of the employees for whom there was no work because the government closed the businesses for epidemiological reasons, so they went to 60 percent of their wages often, which means that they had a large decrease in income or, as a result of the economic difficulties involved, they also went to obstacles, so these are the people who are key, it is the backbone of our economy. I remind you once again that 88 percent of all enterprises in the wage sector are small and medium-sized enterprises up to 50 employees. Even before we approved the Antivirus program - and that was within six days of the announcement of emergency - I came up with a draft law whereby we automatically forgave self-employed persons for six months of social insurance at a minimum, but again 60 per cent of the Ministry pays those social contributions at that minimum level. It is the cost of the state budget for those six months amounting to 2.5 billion a month, i.e. $15.1 billion a year. The third step that we have taken, and that is also forgotten, so again within six days of the announcement of the emergency, we extended the infirmary, which was a maximum of 9 respectively before the crisis. 16 days for single families for the duration of emergency measures. We raised the infirmary for children under 13 years of age, before it was up to 10, and then, as a result of the individual packages, we also increased the infirmary to 80 percent of 60, and we also introduced the infirmary for contractors. I guess I don't have to mention we're 13. 5. As a coalition, they proposed the unification of the conditions of entitlement to the infirmary in the relaxation of kindergarten and primary schools, which means that when we returned to normal life, we clearly defined which families are entitled to the infirmary even though they could place their child in kindergarten or primary school, and that is why we decided to protect families with children in this exceptional situation. This is important to say that, as a government for the first time in history, we have preferred above-standard social protection in this extraordinary epidemiological situation. [[Emphasis.]] [[15.50 hours]] The fourth important law, which we managed to enforce very quickly, was ensuring a smooth payout of benefits, when we lightened the employment authorities and minimized contact between clients and employees of the labour authorities. This was particularly targeted at low-income households and, in essence, enabled applications for benefits to be submitted electronically without signing, thus speeding up the process. The fifth law that we passed - and the government approved it on 26 March - is less than 14 days after the state of emergency - and again targeted low-income households, so we basically flipped the income test to claim some benefits to the second quarter. It was an amendment to the Act on State Social Support and Material Needs and concerned, in particular, the housing allowance, child allowance and increased care allowance. It basically meant that if there are no changes, the first quarter will tilt into the second quarter. People didn't have to go to the authorities, which didn't mean that when the new entitlement to benefits arose, that the employment office didn't handle them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u17	After all, we don't have a full O.R. here, so it would be nice if we quieted down a little bit so the secretary could give us what she wants to tell us. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u18	Thank you, Mr President. The Sixth Law, which we managed to enforce as government, was passed by Government 1. 4. and the Senate approved it 9. 4. there have been changes in employment throughout the coronation. We did not require confirmation of debt-freeness from companies applying for support under the Antivirus programme. We have made it possible not to shorten the contribution to the employment of people with disabilities on compensation for wages on obstacles. We have made it possible to register the employment offices online and from anywhere, which means not only in the place of permanent residence, and we have also made it possible to document a certificate from a doctor about the disease within three days. The seventh law, it was not legislation, but it was a binding regulation, and we come to this already so much extraordinary immediate assistance, so on 6 April, at the moment we had a whole series of significant legislative changes, we loosened extraordinary immediate assistance as a result of the covid crisis, those conditions of claim, and there we went up to where the law allowed us, we removed the testing of property, not taking into account savings up to a certain amount. The aim of this dislodgement is to help with a sudden decline in income - with a sudden decline in income, I stress this, because it will then be very important in response to some of the contributions that have fallen here. Basically, it is now possible to provide emergency immediate assistance to double the minimum of life plus covering all housing costs. And let me remind you about 1. 4. As a government, fortunately, after nine years, we approved and pushed for an increase in life's minimum by inflation, by 13 percent, after nine years. This means that it was very well timed, because the minimum amount of living on April 1 grew considerably. Another law approved by the government on 4 May introduced the fiction of insolvency, which means that during the covido crisis, companies could not de facto go into insolvency, which made it difficult if they did not pay their employees' wages, pay their wage claim at the employment offices, so we introduced this fiction of insolvency, and thus put the situation back on track, thereby making life easier for many employees. On 7 May, the government, and this is the ninth crucial step, approved the deferral of insurance premiums paid by the employer. I remind you that this is a relief for companies that are affected by the coronation, they can postpone their social contributions for three months at very low interest rates, which will be due in October of this year, and the interest is 1 per cent of the quarter, which means that from June to August, companies can obtain liquidity for their companies in such a light way. And it essentially applies to 3.6 miles. employees in the wage sector, that means more than 280,000 firms in the wage sector. May 25th, and this is a matter that has recently been approved in the Chamber of Deputies, and next Wednesday, we are going to discuss this bill in the Senate, the so-called Antivirus C, when we come to relieve the most necessary in order to save jobs. And that principle is simple. Firms, if the bill is passed, within 50 employees under several conditions, which I will name immediately, will be able to forgive social security payments, and thus again we will get liquidity to companies, we will relieve companies. This is the total cost for the state budget of 13.5 billion. CZK and it is 88 percent of all companies in the payroll sector with an impact of 1.5 million. employees under the condition that these firms, if they are forgiven these social security advances, must maintain 90 per cent of their March employment status and 90 per cent of the wage paid for March. It is once again a proposal that has been pushed by the government at the initiative of economists in the economic advisory team of the Central Crisis Staff, and we are promising that Antivira B will be relieved, where we have a really large number of companies, a large number of constant administration, and at the same time will support working companies up to 50 employees. And I think small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the Czech economy. Now I'd get to the 11th measure, and we're already in non-legislative nature. I remind you that on March 8 we modified the e-Cancellation so that we could monitor the number of quarantines ordered. This is an instrument that has been very helpful to hygienists to cope with the situation, and I must say that thanks to the coronation and the practical doctors, who have required up to two years of temporary time to introduce eIncompetents, they have themselves acknowledged that the incapacity is their lover. 11. 3. we are, because we have been overwhelmed by tens of thousands of questions about what will work in social policy, completely edited the MPSV website and deployed a so-called chatbot who helped us answer the citizens' questions. 12. 3. we published the so-called employment desatero, i.e. the interpretation of labour relations in relation to measures for coronavirus. And in order to get this ten-day job among the population, we've also advertised it in big journals. We also had a digital campaign and so on and so on and so on and it was really very much monitored, because people precisely dealt with the situations that we described in the labour desk. That means my employer can order me a day-to-day vacation, which means a statement by agreement, there's no such thing as a statement by agreement, and so on, and so on. 20. 3. In cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and the Czech Post, we have made it possible to pay pensions to family members and other authorized persons on the basis of the power of attorney. On 23 March we provided for workers in social services the possibility of caring for their children in so-called specially established crisis school clubs. On 23 March MPSV joined the so-called senior line 1212, which covered 50 percent of all questions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u19	Good afternoon. I think it's quiet enough to go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u20	Thank you. On March 27, the MPSV issued comprehensive actually methodological instructions, or flyers, if you will, for endangered children, which we sent out to 250 OSPODs, 300 children's institutions or also 145 foster accompanying organizations and helped them solve the most common crisis situations. April 3rd, because we met tens of thousands of questions daily at the Ministry, we organized a live stream on social networks to answer these most frequent questions, so that we could make it easier. These days live streams were organized for the infirmary, for emergency assistance and also for the Antivirus program. On 20 April, we negotiated or ensured a clear interpretation of what is happening with unemployment support for so-called. Pendlers who lost their jobs abroad. This means how to proceed in this situation. On May 10, a comprehensive information campaign for emergency assistance ended, and I would like to inform you that it covered a printed ad in free journals, because people who need emergency emergency assistance probably don't buy newspapers, but it was free newspapers like Metro and 5+2. We have posted or paid 4,000 posters, where we inform about a lot of emergency assistance. Those posters were posted in 120 cities. On April 7, we had a comprehensive live stream where we explained how it works, in cooperation with some journals, extraordinary immediate help. On April 29, more than 100 executives of the Labour Offices were trained to actually know and transmit information on how adapted emergency immediate assistance works, and I personally met representatives of various organizations, such as the Free Mothers Club, etc., where I informed them about how emergency immediate assistance can be used to help people who have found themselves in existential problems as a result of the covid crisis. So I will repeat once again: printed advertising in free journals, poster campaign available in public space so that people who need help get to it live streaming on social networks in cooperation with some internet newspapers. Extraordinary training of employees of labour offices, so that the information actually drips into the field, and targeted communication with various interest associations or umbrella organisations at risk of population groups. May 18th, we introduced a form to check the sickbay's paycheck on the MPSV website. On 25 May we published the first analysis of the use of Antivirus, on 25 May also an analysis of the decline in income and social protection of workers on the agreements, which we will probably still get to, and on 28 May we got to the form for examining extraordinary immediate assistance on the MPSV website. This is the 25 basic steps that we have taken in recent weeks, and now I wonder if I should read the 25 additional steps that we have taken as an MPSV in recent weeks specifically in the field of social services. Maybe I won't, because this very complex material will, like everything, be published on the MPSV website, and I will just point out that March 3rd, March 3rd, means that the number of infected in the Czech Republic has risen from three to five, we have issued the first instruction on how to behave in a coronation. On the third March, social service providers had clear instructions from the Ministry on how to convene crisis crews, how to prepare a crisis plan, how to frontload, how to increase preventive hygiene measures or reduce joint activities. I won't mention the following 24 steps. Maybe one thing that's fitting in, and I think this rare House should be informed about it. On 7 May, and it is really a key thing, historically exceptional, the government approved an allocation of 5.2 billion. CZK for the remuneration of workers in social services in connection with the coronation crisis. Five whole two billion! People who work in direct care and meet with covid will achieve this, the money will arrive at individual facilities in July, at CZK 40,000 a month, other direct care workers at 20,000 a month and facilities where there was no covid infection, so they will receive exceptional financial rewards per worker of CZK 10,000 a month to all as well. It is also important to say that these amounts can vary at an interval of plus or minus 10 per cent, and it will be up to the director of this particular facility to decide, because we do not distribute these funds according to directional numbers, but we divide them - these subsidies are requested directly by individual devices and there may be an interval between those 10 to 40 thousand plus minus 10 per cent according to the reasoned decision of the director or director of that facility. I will not list other social services measures, you can read them all. It's very interesting. We really did a lot of work. And one last thing. In the next two weeks, as soon as we manage the extraordinary grant of 5.2 billion. CZK for financial remuneration for employees in social services, as well as as as the government, we want to support social services by financing operations. This means that once we manage the administration of financial fees, we will also finance the operation of social services created in connection with the covid, which was estimated at about one billion crowns by the Association of Regions and the Association of Social Services Providers. I would like to mention, as I have read the 50 steps that we have taken in the past few weeks, it has been mentioned several times here that on June 15 a draft law on backed-up maintenance is to go to the government. You know that this is a bill that has been mentioned here for 15 years, and I firmly hope, because the need to help single families is more urgent than ever as a result of the covid crisis, so I firmly hope that this bill will find support in both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic and will be approved very quickly so that we can really help single families. It also happened here often that extraordinary immediate assistance is granted in the amount of 48, respectively. 49 crowns and that's scandalous. You know what? I always have a big problem when you lie. That's just -- I take it badly in politics when you lie. And when someone mediates that we're providing extra immediate help 48 or so. 49 kroner, so you have to say B. It's already been dropped. What was the 48 or 49 crowns? Like we figured people deserved the support of CZK 48 or CZK 49? That's how it was presented. That was a request to pay for a bed-in-law for homeless people, and then a request for a ticket to go home from being punished. And when I say that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is helping people with 48 crowns, it must be said that the request was for 48 crowns, that someone had asked for a bed-and-breakfast before the covid crisis, and we fully complied with it. If he asks for more, it'll probably turn out differently. So please don't manipulate information. Don't manipulate information! It destroys political culture, and one day one begins with it, then it turns against it. [[16.10 hours]] As a result of the 168-hour program, I also had information drawn on how it was with those people who were supposedly left unaided. And I'd like your attention, because that's very interesting. I'm not gonna say names for the protection of personal data, but I'm gonna talk about person number one and person number two. And I think that, before public television leaks any information, it should check if these people are lying on camera. Person number 1 requested extra immediate assistance in the amount of CZK 10,000 on 27 April. She didn't provide any evidence. On 5 May, the request was requested to be delivered and on 25 May the request was rejected because it still did not submit anything to the request. Person number 2. He receives regularly the so-called. regular benefits - living allowance, housing supplement, housing allowance, child allowance of CZK 15,200 per month. Person number 2 requested on 19. 3. for extraordinary immediate assistance in the amount of CZK 50,000. 20. 3. the Labour Office called for this person to be supplemented and as a result 24. 3. requested person number 2 to withdraw the application. Then a month later, she asked 21. 4. once again about these 50,000 and proved everything. 6. 5. the Labour Office has decided to reject this application on the grounds that it receives other regular benefits which fully cover its personal essential needs. Then this person number 2 requested 13. 5. an additional fee for the consumption of water and sewerage for 2019 of CZK 8.5,000. And the day after that - the day after that - this extraordinary immediate aid of CZK 8.5,000 was recognised and forwarded to her. I can continue as far as the infirmary is concerned. It's exactly the same there. That means none of the sentences on 168 hours were true. And I think it is very dangerous that through this information that is not verified, so as to run a political campaign. I would also like to add that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is very honest in publishing all information, whether it concerns the number of job applicants, the number and structure of emergency immediate assistance, the number and rate of allocation of the infirmary, sickness, quarantine or also the course of the Antivirus programme. I don't think any other resort is so honest about publishing all the information on its website. Indeed, when you find the web www.mpsv.cz, you will find everything there from the beginning. It's thematically and chronologically sorted, and we publish all the information. The second thing I'd like to say. Every one of you, every one of you who asked me for information, so I sent it to him. And not just Members or Senators. Anyone who wanted information got it. But they were also members of tripartite or e.g. representatives of other interest organisations, associations etc. That means the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs under my leadership is completely transparent in terms of data. And it goes beyond all obligations. All information is also provided by economists from the government NERV, all information that is available is also provided by economists from the Central Crisis Staff, from the economic advisory team. Therefore, I think just say and we are very happy to provide information because it helps us to get, say, another insight and constructive feedback in relation to all these numbers etc. And I think the debate should not be - you left some vulnerable groups in the lurch, but the debate should be, and I think that if we really wanted to help those people, that question should be: how is it that so few people are asking for extra immediate help? How come through all the campaigns, through all the appeals? In every interview, I said, "Please, if you're in an emergency because of the coronation, the employment office is here for you." The employment office will help you. I appeal to everyone. Please try to ask for extra immediate help. And the question should be: how did so few people ask for extra immediate help? Because we've been researching this for weeks, and we haven't figured out the answers. That should be the real question: how come so few people have asked for extra immediate help? Because I think we've done the best we can, the best we can. So let me recap. I think in the past few weeks The Department of Labour and Social Affairs has done everything government economists and NERV experts have recommended of the Central Crisis Staff's economic advisory team. The last big part - and this is something that will be relevant to me when there should be an increase, a major increase in unemployment - is precisely the increase in unemployment aid. But I'd like to go down the road if we... We are preparing a complete change in unemployment support and active employment policy, and we would like to increase unemployment support not across the board, but through a bonus for active participation in active employment policy programmes. That's the last big thematic area we have left. That's the thing we'd like to do in case unemployment increases. It must be said that I will be presenting the detailed unemployment figures for May tomorrow. And unemployment in May is 3.56 percent, which means really very decent numbers. We don't think it's gonna stay that way. All these experts and economists are telling us, and we think the projections are likely to come true, that the Antivirus program has worked, and we've managed to push the problem away a month after a month. Unfortunately, when summer comes, more like the moon will show us how we're really going to do it. And we're working with both the Department of Labour and Social Affairs and the government. This is what we should discuss, how we will deal with the situation if we have 10 percent structural unemployment and combined with the second wave, what this can do to our economy. And then I'd like to discuss with you, not that the Department of Labour and Social Affairs or the government has left someone in the lurch, but how is it possible that so few people have asked for extra immediate help? Despite all those campaigns, even though they're on 1. 4. has increased the life and existential minimum, even though we have released this dose as much as possible, even though we are trying our utmost to help everyone and not really let anyone down. So I would very much like this to be a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u21	Thank you. There is, with a factual remark, Mrs Richterová. However, before I give her my word, I will introduce the House to the pardons. Mr Zahradník apologizes for personal reasons for today's meeting day from 16 o'clock, Mrs Němcová apologises today from 16 o'clock to the end of the meeting day and tomorrow, i.e. 5. 6., for the whole day, Mr Kytýr cancels his apology some time ago, is present, and Vice-President Petr Fiala apologises between 16 and 19 o'clock until the end of the day for working reasons. We will therefore continue the debate. Mrs Richterová has the floor. I'm warning you, he's got two minutes. Of course, he can apply again if necessary. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u22	Thank you for the floor. In that factual remark, I would like to thank the Minister for coming to the House. On the other hand, I'd like to remind you that this point is called a group that didn't get help. It's not called how great we are and what we've done. I would like to stress that we have proposed a number of measures taken by the government, many of us here in the House. It was a logical measure, it's a good thing she came. But so did the surrounding states. It's not, on the other hand, anything that's taken so many and so many dozens of minutes to talk about. [[16.20 hours]] On the other hand, some groups of people who have been forgotten are reality, and I don't know why, Madam Secretary, you wonder why we're pointing out trouble when an administratively demanding dose is granted in the amount of CZK 50, and that the most common range is between CZK 50 and CZK 3,000. I am not aware that anyone in this House, in a factual debate about the so-called mop, is patronizing anything other than what it will do to help those of 50 crowns. Then I would really like to point out that on the 29th of March there was a announcement on the large Czech servers that the workers on the agreement should have a contribution as an OSVČ. That's what you wanted to suggest, Minister Maláčová, that's how it was announced. It gave great false hope, and then the disappointment of all those people was very profound. On the outcome of the small-time employment because of the ČSSD amendment, I think another will be expressed. I just want to say, there are a lot of those groups that have been forgotten, and that's why the debate is detailed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u23	Thank you. Now, Minister Maláčová has signed up with a point of fact, I presume. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u24	Thank you. I would like to warn the lady - I explained it in that several hundred-minute climb. When someone asks for 48 crowns for a sleeper because he is homeless, or asks for 49 crowns for transportation from the prison from the execution of the sentence, we gave him 100 percent. And I know it seems very little for someone with a parliamentary salary, but it was a big help to those people. And then they asked for that amount, they didn't have the money, and we gave them 100 percent. And there's no need to make it a story that we help people with 48 crowns. It's manipulation. It's really manipulation, and we've admitted 100 percent to these people. So please don't say - that's like saying - because there are two cases where we helped people up to 50 crowns, and there are also two cases where we helped people over 50,000 crowns, because when the pirát say we were helping 48 crowns, the SPD could say that we were admitting 55,000 to people. These are exactly the same common cases. And it's data manipulation. I'm surprised at you. Really, for some people 48 kroner, if you are homeless, bedpan is a lot of money. They asked for it, and they got the money. So please don't pull it out of context. Thank you. And one more thing. I would very much like a debate on what this means for 900 thousand employees, for people who have spent their lives, there are very high charges, so when, during and without the crisis and without us, without the Antivirus program, they would not get the money at all and lose their jobs, what it means to work at 60 percent. The situation is 3.1 million employees in the Czech Republic. When I go out, people tell me - the only social democracy stands for employees - 3.1 million, and we have hundreds of thousands of people who have been getting 60 percent of their wages for several weeks. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u25	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík reports with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would simply like to respond briefly to the Minister's speech. We should tell ourselves who has raised the subject of this extraordinary immediate assistance. This was Mrs Gajdůšková, who said that the emergency immediate aid is 10 to 20,000, and in fact two thirds of people receive less than 3,000. That's why we're talking about it. We didn't operate on 50 crowns here. So this argument is totally unfair. Indeed, taking advantage of a point that concerns groups that have not been helped to present the groups you have helped here seems a little perverse to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u27	Thank you. There are two factual points, Mr Luzar and then Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been able to listen with you. It was interesting, Madam Secretary. Show of interesting outputs, chronologically collected in time. I was intrigued by two moments, the final two moments. If you operate by providing accommodation for the homeless for CZK 49 - that's the argument - then why just for one night? And you provide it for every night separately and especially for the agenda? Or are you doing it in bulk, and then the sum would have to be logically higher in sum? So you're using an argument that's not right. If you don't like misrepresenting arguments, let's talk about how many homeless people in the Czech Republic and how many days you asked for this dose. Then let's put it in the numbers in the table and we'll know exactly how far you've progressed in this matter for the benefit of the homeless. And it's one of the most endangered groups in this time of coronation. Let's be aware of that. These are people who even lose the minimum income that they have from collecting secondary raw materials, from different beggars etc., they just lost it all. They're totally gone. And you guys are operating in one bed, because it's 50 kroner to make it go to that sum. Let's try the statistics, and maybe it'll be better. The same applies to the prisoners. How many prisons released the prisoners at the time of the coronation, how many of them requested this benefit, how was it paid when we were in statistics? But that's not the point. I confess, most of all I've been raised by your comment -- we're genius, but people are ungrateful. They didn't come. They didn't ask. And we don't know why. They're ungrateful. They don't see the generosity of the aid and they just don't come. Or is the help set wrong? Shouldn't it be set differently? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u29	Thank you. Mrs Gajdůšková, Mrs Valachová, Mrs Richterová and then Minister Maláčová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Honored House, I just have to refer to what I said. I'm sure you'll find it in the log. For extra immediate help, I recited almost the entire table, where there was a percentage based on the amount of help these people received. I said that between the 10 and 20,000 it was the second largest group of those who requested this dose and who also received it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u31	Thank you. Now, Mrs Valachová, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u32	For me, the debate, as everyone was speaking, was completed. I would recommend that we return to specific procedures in terms of the current provision of emergency emergency assistance. koneckonců all, a colleague from the opposition spectrum mentioned in her words that the situation has changed significantly in the last ten days just after the intervention of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the repeated updating of those procedures towards extraordinary immediate assistance, and there is no point in comparing specific situations. Each of them has become, and I think we've explained it enough. So I call for us to go back to what is the current situation in providing emergency immediate assistance. I will speak more closely as part of my general contribution, but I would like to appreciate the fact that it is, of course, very difficult to get information on how to proceed in particular. Of course, this was also aggravated by the coronavirus situation. I would like to appreciate that I, too, have registered a massive - and it has never really been - adverts as these people can move towards help. I even registered posters in the statutory city of Brno, which these people can actually register, they can grasp the information and use it, because really these target groups we talk about are not always able to look at Facebook, Twitter or social networks. It is also important to say honestly that this was an extraordinary task. As I say, as far as the matter is concerned, in general and out of the country, I will perform in my general contribution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u33	Thank you. And now, Mrs Richterová, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u34	Thank you. Just one more time so we can close the debate on the mop at least a little bit. The point is, we have some years of bad experience here, where even social workers are afraid to go with clients and ask for this dose. We've got a system here that's been motivating for years not to admit this dose, and I've got an up-to-date case in my e-mail now that happened two days ago when the lady made the application, just a request for the dose, to withdraw. It happens all the time. The fact that the Ministry is trying to change this practice in some way is okay and well, but the practice has far from reached the instruction, the last one I mentioned commendationfully, which is as if conveniently set up, but the practice is completely different. And what I'm saying is, that's why it can't be considered and presented as the only solution for the negotiators, because people are traumatized to go ask for the mop. Those who are really in a tight spot and have tried to get it in the past and almost never got it, and now they have no idea that they really should already be entitled. When they get there, in many cases, they're told to download it anyway, that they don't, don't ask for it at all, they'll be discouraged. And that's why the numbers are what they are. That's why, by the end of May, there were just 3,200 admitted applications up to the 3,000. And then everything else is hundreds. Between 3 and 5,000 595 applications granted from March to May. It's nothing in the territory of the Republic. That's nothing compared to how many people are in trouble. Just look at the Free Mothers Club group, how many mothers there are helped by food delivery just here by the infamous author, who participates in 168 hours. How many mothers did she help? [[President: Time, Madame.]] I'd like to thank her for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u35	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, the Minister has reported to me. By the time he gets to the mic, I'll introduce the House to the apologies. Mr Skopeček has been apologizing since 15.30 for work reasons. Mrs Golasowská apologizes from 16.30 - no, sorry, today from 16.30 to midnight for work reasons, i.e. until the end of the day. And Mr Kytýr apologized - I already said that, but now it has arrived on the letterhead. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u36	Thank you. I would like to respond to Mr Luzar. The debate was that emergency immediate assistance works so that people have to ask for a certain amount, and then we can provide it if it is well-founded. If anybody asks for one bedsider, we're giving him an amount for one bedsider. That's how emergency immediate help works, or I'll be happy to explain. This means accommodation of homeless people etc., these are housing benefits and it is then a debate somewhere else. I wanted to say once again that actually the whole debate is that we are very hard at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to get information on people who are not watching public events. How to just get information to people who are in a very difficult life situation, coronavirus has hacked their budget, they don't have funds for basic life needs, that is, accommodation, food, hygienic means of getting information to them, that they can turn to the authorities of work, especially when we have here from past years, and I really think that this is the result of those so-called Drab reforms, when the authorities of work weren't places where people are helping, and it's going to be very hard, it's still actually going around, this myth, it's very hard to remove it, how to get to people who aren't watching public events, the information that the authorities of work are a place that will help you solve your existent crisis if the coronavirus has hacked your home budget. That is the question, and believe that we are very careful about this at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u37	Thank you. That concludes a series of factual remarks, so we will return to the general debate. Mr Ferjenčík is now registered. Mr. Mr. Třešňák will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by responding to the Minister who says how to get it to these people. I'd like to ask you if you've tried at least those employers who've been employing people to make insurance deals so far, writing an e-mail about changing the practice of emergency aid. If there are 200,000 people who are employed in insurance agreements, write their employers an e-mail or a data report that the practice of granting an extra immediate aid benefit has changed, so it could be a very effective way to get it to their many today unfortunately former employees. I believe every decent employer who gets this kind of instruction would be happy to hand it over to the employee who he didn't like to release because he didn't have a job for him to at least relieve his conscience of sending a man to the pavement. I think it's far more effective than paying for an ad in Metro. Well, that's kind of a tip for an MPSV. I'll ask you in a month if you've tried to use this advice. I'd like to-- now I'm gonna go back to those groups that haven't been helped. Mrs. Gajdůškovášková said she doesn't understand why there's always talking about these deals, that it sounds like it's the only disabled group, the crisis. I'll try to explain it to my colleague, so she can understand our motivation, why we're still picking this up. Because, according to our information, the brokers and the self-employed are the two largest groups that the state has left in the lurch. Of course, a number of employees were hit. Of course the tradesmen were hit. Of course, the people who did business through s. r. o. were affected. But these two groups, the people working on the deals and the people who are self-employed with some kind of employment relationship, are the two top-notch groups that have been hit significantly by the crisis and who have not received State aid! And that's why we're dealing with this, that's why we called this special meeting. We will have a deficit of CZK 500 billion, as the Minister of Finance says, behind me, CZK 500 billion, but we do not have CZK 3 billion to support the negotiators. That's if we paid every insurance broker 10 grand a month, so if we gave all these brokers 10,000 a month for the time of the crisis, it costs about CZK 3 billion, and if we gave all the self-employed people an analogy of the support that other businessmen have, we could definitely fit into CZK 10 billion. Here we will simply have an axe in the state budget of CZK 500 billion, but we have left hundreds of thousands of people in the lurch just to save 10 billion, from which some of which would still return to VAT and return to the economy. It just doesn't make any sense economically, and we're trying to fix this situation. On the contrary, when banks were to receive only 25 percent of the portfolio of state guarantees, one e-mail sent by the Czech Banking Association was sufficient, then an amendment came up to raise it to 30 percent. That was 10 billion at least the banks will make for this change. That would cover all these brokers and self-defense with conspiracy! The Minister of Finance said that she completely disagreed with this amendment, that it was the only thing where you resisted the negotiations at the banks, that this parameter would not change, that it was in all the other banking associations, but that the 25 percent was an unstoppable line for her, and then the ANO Members came and voted over their own minister! And they donated 10 billion to the banks here, or maybe more, along with the social democracy that suggested it, along with the others. But when it comes to supporting people who had $10,000 a month, and now they're on the floor, you don't have to worry about them 'cause they don't go to the polls! And then you're dealing with how it's possible that when we did an ad in Metro, that no one's reporting to us about those jobs that have been screwed for ten years as far as possible. It's not normal! [[He's talking very strongly.]] So that's why we're answering. There are several hundred thousand people who are affected by the crisis and have received nothing from the state. They're disabled pensioners. Mrs. Gajdůškovášková here says, "Well, forty thousand, they're retired, they're retired." He just forgets to mention that they're disabled pensioners who take $7,000 a month, and without the profit from the deals they're supposed to live off! Or they're old-age pensioners who have a low pension. They're also honest people, and now they're on the pavement and you bailed on them! And that's why we're trying to stand up for them. There's talk of flexibility. But they're also flexible as contractors. So what's the difference? Why one gets support and others don't? And, of course, I support the state's support when the entire economy shuts down from the government's decision. But we can't just leave it for someone, the help. [[16.40 hours]] So I'm gonna end up on a positive note. It has succeeded in asserting, even from the opposition, that people who have the constituencies of civil society and pedagogical activities should be entitled to a compensatory bonus. It has succeeded in promoting people who are self-employed and also foster parents to qualify for a compensatory bonus. It was able to promote support for small eseroga to receive a compensatory bonus. It was possible to ensure that the Ministry of Finance or the Financial Administration began to comply with the law and people who panicked the trade did not lose the money during the interruption of the trade unless they received unemployment support. We were able to fix all this, and now all we're asking you to do is correct the same with the contractors and correct the same with the self-employed, who had some small-time job, typically for example for a 3,000 crowns job agreement, and because of that, they lost 50,000 state aid. It's totally unfair. You say, well, there's been a crisis, so what are we gonna do about it? Well, I'll tell you why it's important today. Because now the Financial Administration is going to start taking back the money to those people who had a CFI and a work agreement. That's what's going to happen now because your IT systems aren't working on MPSV and Financial Administration and they're not connected. That's why the money for honest statements was paid out, and many of those applicants don't know that having an agreement on work is excluding them from participating in the program. So you're about to start executing them, and you're gonna start taking away the compensation bonus that they already spent because they needed it to pay rent or food for their kids. So the state's gonna start extorting after them now. That's what's going to happen in these months. And that's what we're trying to prevent. That's why we're suggesting that the help spread to these two huge hit groups. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u39	Thank you. Mrs Majerová has been apologizing to us since 17 o'clock for work reasons. And there are two factual points. The first is Mrs Aulická and then Mrs Gajdůšková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to the discussion that has been held here before my colleague Ferjenčík, who is very upset here, but I think I understand, of course. But anyway, I'd like to say one fact. I think we really shouldn't do - as I should say politely - monsters or hyenas from those people who work at those jobs offices. Because they just work according to what the law tells them and what the methodical instructions tell them. We need to realise that there is no longer an emergency, and that means that the officials in the so-called emergency state are no longer actually advancing, and that the procedure is not accelerated. And that if the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has two links on its website that say, "Ask for extra immediate assistance" and one is without attachment and the other is with an attachment and the one without attachment is the first, then most of them, of course, of those applicants - and there are very few of them, I would also like to point out - will fill in the one without an attachment. And what does the employment office have to do? The Labour Office must invite the applicant to document the supporting documents in order to document the other matters. Many of them will say, I will not give you this information. Many of them, for example, prove the evidence far - or it simply takes time. And, of course, even the officials at the employment offices are able to say: you have this current situation, let's also deal with not extraordinary immediate help, but we can say that this is a benefit and a contribution for a living. So I'd just like things to be said the way they are, and I think that there really are no hyenas at these employment offices, but we have legal standards that they have to follow. And we all have to realize that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u41	Thank you and now Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u42	Good evening again. For the last time, I hope. Two short sentences. Firstly, I would ask Mr Ferjenčík, through Mr President, not to yell at me. I've only had a year, and I'm just not used to it. One. And two. There's no way I was talking about throwing disabled people overboard, so to speak. On the contrary, I said these people needed help. But these people can also very simply ask for the extra immediate assistance, but also for further support within the framework of social benefits. And maybe for the sake of interest to all of you, why the pirát are fighting so hard here for the so-called brokers. It is 26 percent of these people from Prague. It's nice, you have every right. But the others need to know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u43	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík is on the verdict. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u44	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry, colleague. I didn't mean to yell at her. Anyway, I'm very sorry that they just don't hear our arguments that tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people are on the pavement, and the government hasn't helped them. And it is largely the fault of social democracy, which itself proposed the abolition of any co-operation of the CFI and any part of it, including an agreement on work activities from 3,000 higher. And that was just a huge mistake that made a huge injustice in this company.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u45	Thank you. Mr Černohorský has now signed up with the actual application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u46	Thank you for the floor. I'm just impressed with the ending. I don't give a damn where that person comes from, through the President. I don't care if he's from Zlin, Ostrava or Prague. That entitlement, or the possibility of obtaining any support, should be given to any citizen of this Republic who pays social, health, which pays taxes. And the fact that he's staying in Prague, let him stay in Prague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u47	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Třešňák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u48	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me remind you of one more group that has been forgotten in any aid, although its importance was certainly not negligible not only during the pandemic. If that is not the case and there has been some shift over the last few days, I am sure that the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will then correct me. Because there are more registered associations within the Czech Republic that have helped to cope with an adverse situation, such as the supply of social and health services by means of protective equipment, aids, disinfectants, production or distribution of these funds at their expense, and unfortunately because of this activity they have suffered significant economic losses, which can also lead to their economic liquidation. That's the one area. Furthermore, many associations in the field of health and social services, for example, offering different forms of assistance services, which could not have been carried out during the quarantine period, are also certainly active here. For example, visit institutions, homes for seniors or even large health service providers. Unfortunately, none of the programmes presented so far count on direct economic aid to these associations. Therefore, I would like to propose a simple resolution that the government should continue to address this problem and present the most appropriate form of economic support, whether it is direct economic subsidies or the possibility of interest-free loans. But what I would like to poke out in this particular case is the guarantee itself for normal commercial credit, because in many cases registered associations have very difficult access to commercial loans. [[16.50 hours]] The resolution, then I will join it in a detailed debate, would be roughly as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies I appreciates the participation of a number of associations in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, which led to better management of the pandemic situation in the Czech Republic; II. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to prepare a rescue package for associations that participated in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic by providing health or social services or by helping free supply of aids and medical supplies, as well as for associations to which the pandemic of coronavirus has prevented long-term work in health and social services." That's one area. And let me continue with one more unrelated topic, because it will not allow me to respond to Minister Maláčová and her visit to Sokolov coal today - although not here, I do not know if she is listening to me - which she has just mentioned in the context of the decline in coal mining and the threat of thousands of jobs. Although I also perceive the issue and deal with it not only because I come from the region, but energy is my original field, so unlike the pandemic of coronavirus, the shift from coal did not fall from the sky yesterday. This is something predictable in the long term that has been planned for several years, not only in terms of energy security or employment in the regions concerned. Although the various aspects of the coal face out have been dealt with by the coal commission for the last few months, this is a topic that the government should have dealt with for at least five years, and for many more years it will certainly be dealing with. I must therefore point out to the Minister that the Karlovy Vary Region is not only about brown coal, and ask if they can hear me, in this context, when they visited Sokolovská uhelná this morning, whether they visited the spa in our region during this day. I know it is not her gesture, but this sector is currently even more at risk of the current crisis from the point of view of employment, taking into account, for example, the closed state borders. And these are indeed several thousand jobs, only in the Karlovy Vary Region. Sure, I'll admit that the pandemic is likely to wear off, and in many areas, including the spa, we can expect a reboot, so the coal may go to eternal hunting grounds forever. That's all the more we need to deal with the job drop. And I apologize for this de facto turn of events.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u49	Thank you. And now, Mrs Valachová is in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u50	Mr President, colleagues, fellow governments, I believe that last weeks, both coalitions and opposition have done everything they can to ensure that no one falls, and all that no one is left behind, and all that everyone can do to help. I do not believe that there is a Member or a Member sitting here in the Chamber of Deputies who might wish that someone would not be helped or that he would not be able to deal with his particular situation in life. If colleagues mentioned during the debate that it was a mistake not to allow the current use of aid in the field of tradesmen and workers' aid, I think it is not that black and white. I even believe that a number of colleagues with economic education might, on the contrary, at this time, number out how much funds were lost, where they should have been targeted and how better they should have been used. I think the approach, if we had the support of helping employees through the Antivirus program against helping businessmen through compensatory bonuses, is this basic approach right. And I think that what colleagues rightly draw attention to is an unintended grey zone where specific people, specific employees, specific workers, specific tradesmen, and they have no access to help, so this result is unintended. And in my opinion, because I have been dealing with the social system and public systems for a long time, let's say sometime since 2001, 2002, that is, I was an active lawyer, let's say, in the first economic crisis, and I have to say, unfortunately, it was very similar that some particular groups of workers, workers, tradesmen, were falling out of our aid. And unfortunately, I must have déjà vu, that even then we failed extraordinary immediate help as an instrument which, in theory, should and could help, but in specific situations, was not done. So let me think more about why this is happening, that a number of workers in specific professions who are, I note, employed in the long term on a work agreement or on a work agreement, and I note very often that they are not even socially insured, and a number of employers and certain sectors approach them by deliberately giving them the very low amounts of remuneration in these agreements so that they are not insured in either of these employment conditions. And it is a method - a method - that employers have been using in the long term the work of specific employees. The specific victims are housekeepers, night watchmen, security guards, but of course I could name another one. And it's wrong. And if there's anything good, it's that colleagues here both from the coalition and from the opposition show what kind of villainy it is, what the consequences are, and how villainy it is to the other when we're in an economic crisis and the economy shuts down. But let's be honest that this is the real reason why we can't all of a sudden, even though we all want to help those people day by day and fast. I would like this debate on those who have not been helped, and they are such people, and it is true, so that this House will also prevent these practices and this way of dealing with a number of sectors. And that is the question of systemic change and systemic change of laws. I believe that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the coalition and opposition should agree on this until the end of their term of office, and thank you for that. And it's a shame. Even people like that come to my office. And it has something to do with the second mischief in our labour market, which is even more disgusting from my point of view. It has to do with the fact that a number of employees who have long been rewarded, say, with low wages, have low qualifications, although they like their work and do it 100%, but are in the 55+ group, so they often encounter employers refusing to employ them on normal employment and begging them for some kind of certificate of limited eligibility or disability pension to receive subsidies. This is common in the labour market. And unfortunately, I am registering from the citizens who are turning to me right now as a result of the coronation and the economic crisis that these people are becoming victims in the first place. So even here, I'd like us not to be satisfied by the fact that, well, we're gonna criticize that we didn't give them a compensatory bonus by June 30th, but on July 1st, we wouldn't care that their standard of living and their work looks like it. And it's been a long time. So that's what I'd like us to do, together across the political spectrum, to prevent this. And now to do what to do with those who really didn't achieve extraordinary immediate assistance or a compensatory bonus. For me, there are basically three options for us as MPs at the moment. First, to support the maximum payment of emergency immediate assistance on the basis of new rules, so that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs guarantees that it will actually be ensured that everyone who comes to the employment office will not be discouraged and will be dealt with individually as quickly as possible. I think that the fact that we no longer have social services off-line, social activation services could be of great help. And he is turning to me, and I want to thank the Association of Civic Counselors, who are already helping more massively and talking to me about how they have experience with people being able to quickly reach help, so also our helpers - I thank them very much once again, colleagues and colleagues from the Association of Civic Counseling, because they are doing a great job in the territory of the whole Republic, so that they can help us to get really extraordinary immediate help. And I myself, and I believe that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will support as much as possible that the real, real amounts will be kept on people's accounts as soon as possible. The second thing - and it was mentioned by your colleague through Hana Aulická Jírovcová - is, of course, that we should support the workers of the employment offices to assess the current situation as it is, given the vulnerable groups we are talking about today and which have fallen through our aid, and to use the standard tools - the living allowance, the housing benefits and others - on the basis of the evaluation. And I would very much like these people to reach this help as quickly as possible. [[17,00 hours]] And the third thing about so-called Compensatory bonuses. Since we have the date we have, and the compensation bonuses end on 30 June, I do not think that this is a procedure that we can guarantee as Members at the moment. That we will still get this target group, or, say, those vulnerable groups, as our opponents have pointed out, into this protection. However, I believe that through Antivirus C we should talk about how to include and help this target group through this programme. So for me, these are concrete steps that could help these people get them back into the dignity of living standards and work as quickly as possible, but I can tell you, fellow Members, that if people like that turn to me, they want one thing. They want their job and they want it well paid. Honestly, he doesn't want any benefits or compensation bonuses. Therefore, let us focus above all on making sure that these people have a well-paid job and that we do not forget what the coronavirus has brought to us in our following activity and really prevent some sectors from using massively towards workers, as I mentioned by the cleaning women, the security services, the night doorkeepers and others, to abuse so-called "workers." agreements and deliberately concluded them so that these people would still fall out of our social security, because then it would not really be helpful even what some colleagues have mentioned that we would aim to help these agreements, which are registered and which relate to the remuneration of over CZK 10,000. Unfortunately, some employers have deliberately avoided this, and these people would fall for us again. So let's see what the real reason is. And for the last time, I would like to mention that we should approach the singles and singles and the combination to which the infirmary, income loss, and other complications in the reconciliation of family and working life arise at the moment, and here I personally think that we should come up with a specific programme precisely for singles and singles, because I am personally concerned that the situation will not deteriorate significantly after 30 June, when we lose an extraordinary treatment 80 percent, and it is clear that this target group will again be extremely threatened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u51	Thank you. I'll ask for more peace in the room. With a factual remark, Mr Ferjenčík is registered. He's the only one at the moment. And then it's Mrs Richterová's turn. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u52	Thank you for the floor. I would simply like to respond briefly to my colleague Valachová. When we talk about the causes, one of the main reasons is that there is a hugely high tax on labour. So, of course, it's worth more to these companies to use either the svarcsystem or the agreements at a time when ordinary employees pay a tax of around 44 percent of the total wage costs and 15 percent for contractors. So logically, the difference is huge, and I think the right way is to reduce labor taxation. That's one thing. The second thing is, unfortunately, you have mixed several groups through the President to which a different approach is needed. And when we talk about the self-employed who have a small employment relationship, it's a completely different group than typical contractors, disability pensioners, for example. And for the self-righteous ones, all it took was to comply with one of the dozens of opposition proposals and put some reasonable limit on it. And unfortunately, you didn't. It's just that a deal of up to 10,000 or a contract of up to 0.2 or something doesn't mean zero for a compensation bonus. At least allow, for example. people who make a living as photographers at weddings, so they typically work at the IČO weekend and have a part-time job, for example, so that those who are clearly affected by the coronavirus are not deprived of a compensatory bonus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u53	Thank you, and Mrs Valachová will respond with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u54	I'll start from the end. I agree with the clarification given by my colleague, the two groups, as he described them. As far as high labour taxation is concerned, I don't think we need to convince ourselves of that either. I just allow myself to maintain my opinion that right here in the low-income and very few qualified professions I mentioned, I really don't feel that blackmailing these people has anything to do with the fact that work is heavily taxed. I highly doubt that. Rather, it has to do with the fact that these sectors, if you look at how much customers pay for their services, there are no low prices, rather the opposite. So this is more related to dishonest employers and the fact that work is being abused in these sectors. So I agree with high taxation, but I certainly don't feel like the housekeepers, the night watchmen, and the security services, these very groups, are being blackmailed just because there's a high tax on work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u55	Thank you, Mr Ferjenčík will still respond with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u56	Very briefly. Even a man who works on a minimum wage must be paid by the employer at the level of some 34 percent of his gross wage beyond the gross wage. This is, of course, a huge wage cost that pushes employers to use a labour agreement instead.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u57	Thank you, and Mrs Valachová will still respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u58	Just Monday, there was a cleaning lady in my office, who is exactly the group we're talking about. He's got ten deals after a thousand grand. Of course she is without the crown and her work, when she works from morning to night, so she gets three hundred! And I'd be surprised how it's going to be from the point of view of how it was actually taxed. So I agree with my colleague, we really don't have to argue, but I insist that these people are being treated in a dirty way, it has nothing to do with the coronavirus, and we should light up the coronavirus necoronavirus on these practices.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u59	Thank you and I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Richterová in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u60	Thank you for the floor. I would very much hate for the Secretary of Finance to leave, because I think most - super - will be here - most of the topics I think concern you, Madam Secretary. [[The Minister is returning to the bench.]] Anyone who can't see the shot, so I stopped you from eating a banana, which I'm sorry, but this debate is coming to an end. My point is, from everything we've just said here, it turns out that this crisis will mean in the state account that we'll go into deep red numbers, that tens of billions will go to different kinds of help. And I just don't get it, I don't really understand why punishing the workers, the people who worked and took out insurance premiums, for having an inappropriate kind of working relationship. And with that, Madam Secretary, I would really like to turn to you, because from the media comments made by Minister Maláčová, it was clear that she wanted to give some lower compensation bonus to these people. And I think from the way government dynamics work, that in the end it was up to you to leave them out of it. It just seems unfair to me. People who have worked and been hit don't make sense to me to let them down and toss a wedge between different types of workers. And I'd use another example. As absurd as it seems to me right now, it really is not limited that when a self-employed person has a small employment agreement, anything above CZK 3,000 a month means that the businessman will return the 25th. He's just gonna give it back. It's starting. And my question, Madam Secretary, is why not go through with this. All you have to do is put some kind of limit on how big the profit over the so-called. The employment ratio could have been. But she was often just an agreement on work activities over CZK 3,000. I really can't imagine--
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u61	Madam, I would like to interrupt you and ask the House for more peace. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u62	How am I going to explain to the people who come to me, as an MP in my office, that we've let this happen? In order to simply return the compensation bonus as businessmen who have been objectively and provenly affected, sign it, make an honest statement, it can be enforced if they lie. So if they were affected and did not realize that DPČ over CZK 3,000 a month is taken for the purposes of 25. It just seems unfair and illogical to me. I'll give you one more thing. It's the whole government absurdity for me in practice again. This is where the government coalition was declared the stop sign of the lease statement. But it's getting closer, it's kind of starting to get to those moments of shutting down the company because of the coronavirus. Time limits will begin to run out for people to start paying their rent, but housing allowance cannot be paid unless expenditure on housing has been shown to have been paid. I asked here in April how you'd handle it. And so far, I don't know anything about what you'd suggest. That's why I'm asking you, Minister of Finance, and there's also Minister Dostálová, who suggested how you propose a solution - even if you look for example, we made such a web socialnissystem.cz . On this site, there are different kinds of life situations that the state proposes how to deal with it. But for a situation where the government will officially approve: now that you don't have to pay rent, and don't worry, we just have housing benefits here, they will help you - but the same government will forget to say that this amount of housing support can only be paid if the housing costs have been paid, so we simply don't have an explanation for this absurd situation. So that's the way to make new people in executions, send other people into executions, and that's why I mentioned those 860 thousand people in executions and insolvencys. These people, yes, now have a simpler situation, because they have managed to facilitate certain situations in the House's subcommittee on execution, tax bonuses and severance payments have been removed from their confiscated income, the seizure of property during the crisis has been stopped, but a new enforcement order needs to be adopted urgently. Among other things, it is very important that these new people, where we can expect thousands of people to just go to executions, unfortunately, because of the corona, so that these new debtors will follow the new execution order, so that there is one executioner for one person to be new and slightly better rules. And this House press 545 is still parked. It is precisely by the fact that he is already in the negotiations that we would be able to accept this quickly enough. And because of all this, I'm turning to you, Secretary of Finance, why rush people into executions, when the DEA with a small job, very often on a job agreement above the CZK 3,000 a month, just didn't know it meant that it was going to return the pětadvacítka. Likewise, the insurance brokers should at least be entitled to some help. And the last thing, that's towards Mrs Aulická. We have drawn up a plan for the Future which we are discussing now, in which to prove that we are thinking about the authorities of work, I want to quote, we have in the chapter Coherent Society for Pirates a whole paragraph towards the authorities of work, because we consider the employment authorities to be the key office that needs to strengthen financially, methodically and personnelly, simply in this crisis not only are they burdened now, but they will be even more, and at the same time support the digitalisation. And that's the last thing I would have concluded that without digitizing the systems, the labor authorities wouldn't move any further. They will continue to be jammed as they are today, and it will not be possible to do so effectively. And that would be my request to those members of the government who are here today, or to those who are watching it, to make use of at least a little of the automation and electronization that the coronavirus has brought, and to leave some of these procedures for the following, because some of the facilitations of communication with the authorities, I believe, would be appropriate to keep them permanently. Thank you for your attention and I am curious to hear the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u63	Thank you, and another is in the general debate, Mrs Aulická. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't want to delay, fellow Members, but I really think it might be good to respond to the whole debate that was going on here, because the point, if I understood it - I don't have a colleague here, Ferjenčík - so de facto the discussion that took place here by the pirát is about, of course, apart from the topic of execution, which the group was entitled to the assistance and which group was not entitled to the assistance. Of course, we also discussed this in the Committee on Social Policy and among our colleagues in the club. I think it was a theme in other clubs. And I have to say, I feel like we're making up processes here, when we're just working some classic processes to help people here. Don't be mad at me, but the employment office isn't really a deterrent office for those people to be afraid to go there, but it's just a situation, or it's an office that should help even in this situation, and I think, even though it's true that the secretary is saying half the information, I think Minister Maláčová, so those people or those officials at the employment offices are doing what they can, so if that person comes in there and asks for help for some serious reasons that she just doesn't have the income, that's why she needs help, so the employment office is really doing what it can to help him. And it doesn't just have to be the discussed, the extraordinary immediate help, but it can also be other, batch systems that we just have, and I think there's roughly 26 of them that the employment office has, and the aid of state social support and, of course, the material emergency. I would like to say that we are also the only Czech Republic that still has work agreements and labour agreements. Yes. And don't be mad at me, it's a big advantage especially for businessmen. And unfortunately, these people who enter into these agreements and have it as a single income, they don't even realize - and often they don't even take it seriously - that they're actually losing their pension rights, because to a greater extent, and it's been said in these other discussions, they have, like, ten agreements, but there aren't social and health and other taxes that are associated with it anywhere, and then suddenly people find out that they're not entitled to pensions. And what is that? This is the system that makes it possible in the Czech Republic for a long time and on which, of course, they earn money, and unfortunately, it is the most employer that suits this system. So I have to say that maybe we should also talk for me in the future, or in the near future, about why we still support these agreements in the Czech Republic, which we see now merely bring people into major financial problems and financial downturns. And I really don't like it when we chase down our officials at the employment offices, that they really don't want to help people. It's not true, and I think that Minister Maláčová should tell hers here, too, because the way we've been communicating the situation, they're doing their best. It is true, Minister Maláčová does not say everything as she is, directs people, or urges, I apologize for people going to those jobs, asking for it, but more or less does not say B, that she really has to document the essential information and material that very often simply does not want to document or have no interest in delivering it. And I'm convinced that standing here is really about helping the needy, and we have working systems here, and I don't see that kind of gros rubbing the right hand behind the left ear when we can use the systems that work here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u65	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Ferjenčík is registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u66	Thank you for the floor. I hope for the last time in this debate. One thing is the brokers who have it as their main source of income. And the second thing is people who have the main source of income of the CFI and they have one small agreement on work activities. And to exclude these people from any compensatory bonus is just a huge injustice, and I am very sorry that this government coalition has set it up in this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u67	Thank you, and that was the last application in the general debate, so if no one else is reporting to the general debate, I am at the moment ending the general debate. I'm asking the plaintiff if there's any interest in the final word. [[The designer points to Secretary Schiller.]] Madam Secretary will be performing again?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u68	So I am very sorry to have to use that final word. I didn't expect to speak anymore, but I assumed that Minister Schillerová would respond. May I ask for a response to my questions? [[The secretary's going to the mic.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u69	Thank you. If the Minister is speaking now, I will have to reopen the debate. [[No echoes from the diaper, and the minister refrains from his intention to step out.]] Or we can leave it in detail for the debate. [[Big noise in the hall.]] So I am now opening up a detailed debate, and the Minister has the opportunity to speak without opening anything. Now a detailed debate is open. Anyone who wants to sign up can come forward. Please, Madam Secretary with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u70	Well, I didn't want to avoid the answer from the lady. I've said this so many times, I think I'm gonna repeat myself. We've set up forms of aid for the most vulnerable. And what we could do is give it to everyone, we could give all citizens some money, and maybe we could save ourselves all these debates. But we just wanted to focus the support on the most vulnerable. And the basic condition was that the aids would not cross with each other, that is, if someone falls under the Antivirus program because he's an employee, he won't fall under the 25th at the same time. We've merged the aid, but the aid is compatible with the infirmary, you know that it can have a 25-year-old, one of the infirmaries. Then there was talk of forgiveness not only social, as Minister Maláčová said, but also health, the minimal one, for the self-employed. That means the conditions had to be set so that if someone was an employee, they wouldn't receive a pětadvacítka-year-old at the same time. However, we said, there are certain working conditions of a small scale up to 3,000, where they pay social, so there - who today takes up to 3,000, I don't know, I don't think there are many, but there simply, if he has to do it then he can collect. Then we said - contractors who are up to 10,000, i.e. does not pay contributions, it is also possible to accumulate with 25. And the others don't. The Chamber of Deputies has promoted the teaching staff here, then pushed through, I guess, foster parents, if I'm not mistaken, but where would that line be? Where would that line be? 10,000? 11,000? If it's ten, you'll be screaming again so it'll be eleven, so it'll be so much... I know the way you serve it may sound unfair, but there's got to be a system. Because if the system wasn't there, the same people would be compensated by antivir, and the same people were compensated by pětadvacítka. So it was the basic philosophy. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] And here I said, there's no way I'm gonna throw anything at anybody, it's made up of government together, so I'm not gonna say anything, it's her. That's just not what I'm doing and I'm not doing. So we said this rule to the 10,000 -- the secretary is not here right now, so it's stupid to talk about it, but she was talking very long about material distress, and there was a debate about some potential subsidy program --
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u71	Madam Secretary, I will allow myself to interrupt you and ask colleagues who have arrived in the O.R. at this moment to possibly keep their voice down so we can hear each other. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u72	- that would be in the department of labor for this group of people. But if the Ministry of Labour has come to the conclusion that it is healed within the framework of these programs, virtually. The benefits that exist today, of course, I respect that, but I'm just explaining what the basic philosophy was. This means that these two fundamental support for the most vulnerable, Antivirus and 25, are simply excluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u73	Thank you and we will continue with the detailed debate in which there are three entries. First Mrs Šafránková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u74	Thank you, Mr President. As I have already justified in the general debate, I would like to propose two motions for a resolution. The first resolution is as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to submit a legislative proposal by 8 June 2020 to eliminate discrimination against employees on parttime jobs and on agreements outside the main employment relationship in terms of their access to state financial assistance and to compensate for losses in their income as a result of the introduction of emergency emergency measures in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, in particular to eliminate their discrimination on access to the so-called "COVID-19'. a compensatory bonus within the meaning of Law No. 159/2020 Sb." And the second motion for a resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies I. Points out that a one-time benefit of assistance in material distress, emergency immediate assistance, is the main instrument of a state providing assistance to people who are proven to be affected by a lack of funds in existential distress due to an adverse and extraordinary situation; II. Calls on the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, through the Government, that due to the long-term criticism of the effectiveness of the benefit, emergency immediate assistance, which has only been stepped up in connection with the crisis measures related to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, should be implemented by system measures; III. Calls through the Government of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to take account of the low value of the average awarded amount so called. emergency immediate assistance has not been automatically restricted beyond the law to applicants living on the poverty line, but to help protect the medium-income part of the population from falling into a debt trap or from losing housing, and also to revise the relevant methodological guidelines in this respect, IV. Calls on the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, through the Government, to inform the general public as a preventive measure of the nature of emergency immediate assistance, with an emphasis on the medium-income part of the population, which is not the usual recipient of benefits of material distress; V. requests, through the Government of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, that by 16 June 2020, the Chamber of Deputies submit a detailed analysis of the granted benefits of assistance in material distress - extraordinary immediate assistance, both nationally and across individual districts in the reference period from 1 March 2020 to 31 May 2020 including: 1. the number of applications submitted, rejected and approved, 2. the relative frequency of the main grounds for rejecting the applications submitted, 3. the total financial amount of all applications submitted and all approved applications, 4. information on how many applicants requested this benefit in the category up to CZK 5 000, from CZK 6 to CZK 10 000, CZK 11 to CZK 20 000, CZK 21 to CZK 30 000, CZK 31 to CZK 40 000, CZK 41 to CZK 50 000 and CZK 51 000 to CZK 57.9 000, how many applicants were granted the benefit in these categories and what are the prevailing reasons why the claim was rejected in that category, 5. details of how many applicants requested this allowance to cover their life needs for which they did not have the money left after payment of the mortgage due to short-term income loss, 6. details of how many applicants requested this benefit for extraordinary payment of rent due to short-term income loss and -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u75	[[Unbearable noise in the room.]] Madam, I would like to interrupt you and ask, in particular, the left side of the House for more peace. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u76	And 7. indication of how many applications have been rejected and how many have been approved within two days, within three to five days, within six to ten days, 11 to 15 days and 16 to 30 days. And I beg you to support these two resolutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u77	Thank you. Mr Třešňák is another member of the detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u78	So, ladies and gentlemen, once again, I will read the resolution which reads: "Deputy Chamber of Deputies I. appreciates the participation of a number of associations in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, which has undoubtedly led to a better management of the pandemic situation in the Czech Republic; II. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to prepare a rescue package for associations that participated in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic by providing health or social services or by helping free supply of aids and medical supplies, as well as for associations to which the pandemic of coronavirus has prevented long-term work in health and social services."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u79	Thank you. I shall ask Mrs Richterová, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u80	Thank you for the floor. I would therefore react in response to the fact that the Minister did not reply to how he proposed to deal with the situation and injustice created for the contractors who paid the premiums.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u81	Madame, I will interrupt you again and ask the House to be more calm again. We're approaching the vote, but it could be more peaceful. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u82	We have a motion for a resolution for the Pirates, for the ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN. It is a proposal concerning those groups of citizens who have not been helped. The text is as follows.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u83	I understand, Madame. I shall once again ask the House for more peace. I ask that we pay attention to the reading of the motion for a resolution on which we will vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u84	"I. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to support those who worked on the agreement and to pay insurance by a compensatory bonus or other appropriate mechanism. II. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to support those self-employed workers, i.e. DPČ, for whom the business is the dominant source of income and who have not received any support yet." This is a motion for a resolution. I will just add that the solution for housing support will be something that I assume the government will deal with as soon as possible. Unfortunately, the Minister also did not mention the solution to the rent loss, which is not possible today, to replace the contribution to housing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u85	Thank you. I am glad that the House has come true. At this point, I have no applications for a detailed debate. So if no one's reporting, I'm done with the detailed debate. I believe that all the motions for resolutions have been passed on to at least the rapporteur. I ask if there is an interest in the final word after a detailed debate. It's not. In that case, we should now move on to the vote on the various motions for resolutions. I ask the rapporteur to show us the procedure proposal. I've logged the logout application, so I'm going to unsubscribe you, or if there's a need to distribute proposals, it's possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u86	We have now been discussing the wording of the resolution. The joint proposal of several clubs was sent, as far as I know, to the presidents of the MPs a week ago. So there shouldn't be a problem with the fact that MPs don't have a gros proposal. But in order to make sure that there is really no doubt about what is being voted on, I propose that we vote after the points that I will actually always read a specific point. If I may suggest a procedure, then I propose a procedure: first a joint proposal, then a shorter proposal by Mr Třešňák and then a proposal by Mrs Šafránková concerning the elimination of discrimination against workers, and then the longest, concerning emergency assistance. There I'd just ask whether he wants it in whole or also on points. On points. So that should make it clear what we're going to vote on, because it's always going to be a short stretch. So, may I suggest a procedure like this?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u87	I'll try to sum it up. The proposal is therefore that we will vote in order: a joint proposal from several opposition clubs, a proposal from Mr Třešňák, a proposal from Mrs Šafránková, and a proposal from opposition clubs we will vote after points. Mr Třešňák's proposal in whole? Mr Třešňák's proposal in whole, if no one opposes it, and Mrs Šafránková's proposals also after points - there are two proposals, one in whole. And then one after the points, if I'm picking it up. Mr. Excellent cancels his apology. So if there's a match on the procedure, everyone's logged in, we can vote for the procedure. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 20, 118 Members and Members, for 118, against no one, no one has stayed, so absolute agreement. Thank you. Please read the first motion for a resolution. There's another application for check-out. Wait a minute. [[There's still a lot of noise in the hall!]] When the House calms down, I will ask for the first proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u88	The first proposal is: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the government to support people who have worked for the agreement and to pay insurance by a compensatory bonus or other appropriate mechanism. "
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u89	Thank you. It is clear what we are voting on. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 21 117 Members and Members are registered, for 54, against 2. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u90	Second proposal: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government, by a compensatory bonus or other appropriate mechanism, to support those self-employed workers who are the dominant source of income and who have not yet received any State aid.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u91	Thank you. It is clear what we are voting on. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote order number 22, 119 Members and Members are registered, for 54, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u92	The next proposal is to Mr Třešňák. "The Chamber of Deputies: I. appreciates the participation of a number of associations in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, which has undoubtedly led to a better management of the pandemic situation in the Czech Republic; II. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to prepare a rescue package for associations that participated in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic by providing health or social services or helping free supply of supplies...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u93	Madam, I understand. I'm asking the House for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u94	... or assist free supply of medical supplies and medical supplies, as well as associations with which the pandemic of coronavirus prevented long-term work in health and social services." So if I sum it up: I. appreciates the participation of a number of associations, II. Calls on the Government to support them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u95	Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting number 23, there are 120 Members and Members, for 52, against 3. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u96	Another motion - Mrs Šafránková's resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to do 8. 6. 2020 has submitted a legislative proposal for a solution that would eliminate discrimination against employees on parttime jobs and on agreements outside the main employment relationship with regard to their access to State financial assistance and to compensate losses in their income as a result of the introduction of emergency emergency measures in connection with the pandemic of the COVID-19 virus, in particular to eliminate their discrimination in access to so-called "COVID-19'. a compensatory bonus within the meaning of Law No. 159/2020 Sb."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u97	Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 24, 120 Members and Members are registered, for 53, against 3. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u98	And now, after the points, we will vote on a resolution to use one-off aid in material distress, called emergency immediate assistance: "I. The Chamber of Deputies points out that a one-time benefit of assistance in material distress, extra immediate assistance, is the main instrument of a state providing assistance to people who are proven to be affected by a lack of funds in existential distress due to an adverse and extraordinary situation." That way, item one can vote - notice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u99	Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting number 25, 119 Members and Members are registered, for 49, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u100	There was a curious situation that the description of the current situation was rejected. Second point: "The Chamber of Deputies calls, through the Government, on the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, that due to the long-term criticism of the effectiveness of the provision of the benefit, emergency immediate assistance, which has only been stepped up in relation to the crisis measures related to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, should be taken systemic measures.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u101	Thank you. Initiating vote number 26. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 26, 119 Members and Members are registered, for 52, against 1. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u102	Thirdly: "The Chamber of Deputies calls through the Government of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to take account of the low value of the average amount awarded so-called. extraordinary immediate assistance has not been automatically restricted beyond the law only to applicants living on the poverty line, but to help protect the medium-income part of the population from falling into debt traps or from losing housing, and in this respect the Ministry should also revise the relevant methodological guidelines."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u103	Thank you. Initiating vote 27. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 27, 119 Members and Members are registered, for 50, against 2. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u104	"The Chamber of Deputies calls, through the Government, on the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, to inform the general public as a preventive measure of the nature of emergency immediate assistance, with an emphasis on the medium-income part of the population, which is not the usual recipient of benefits of material distress."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u105	Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 28 119 Members and Members are registered, for 49, against 8. This proposal was rejected. And another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u106	And now, the last proposal by the Government of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to submit to the Chamber of Deputies, by 16 June 2020, a detailed analysis of the benefits granted in material distress, emergency immediate assistance, both nationally and in individual counties...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u107	I understand you, Madame, and I will ask the House for peace, so that we hear the resolution on which we will vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u108	... for the reference period from 1 March to 31 May 2020, namely an analysis covering: 1. the number of applications submitted, rejected and approved, 2. the relative frequency of the main grounds for rejecting the applications submitted, 3. the total financial amount of all applications submitted and all approved applications, 4. information on how many applicants applied for this benefit in categories up to CZK 5,000, 6 thousand to 10 thousand, 11 to 20, 21 to 30 thousand, 31 to 40 thousand, 41 to 50 thousand and 51 to 57 900 CZK, how many applicants were individually granted in those categories and what are the main reasons why the claim for the benefit in that category was rejected, 5. details of how many applicants requested this allowance to cover their life needs for which they did not have the money left after payment of the mortgage due to short-term income loss, [[necessary expenditure]] 6. details of how many applicants requested this benefit for extraordinary payment of rent due to short-term income loss, 7. details of how many applications have been rejected and how many have been approved within 2 days, up to 3 to 5 days, up to 6 to 10 days, up to 11 to 15 days and up to 16 to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-002-002.u109	Thank you. Initiating vote number 29. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting number 29, there are 120 Members and Members, for 54, against 2. Nor has this proposal been adopted. That was all the proposals, if I'm not mistaken, so we've dealt with all the proposals and everything that would be at this point, so I'm done with this point. I will now introduce the House to the apologies received. Mr Schwarzenberg apologizes from 14:30 to 23:00 for reasons of work, Mr Výborný apologies from 17:30 to the end of the day for reasons of work, and Mrs Válková apologises between 17:00 and 18:00 for reasons of work. And we'll continue. The next item is the item
