ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u1	4. Information about the Prime Minister's position on the Europe Recovery Plan I remind my colleagues that we have interrupted this point in the general debate. My colleague Benešík is at the rapporteur's table. I will also ask for the presence of the rapporteur. That is Mr Adam Kalous, who is already ready. And we can continue with the interrupted general debate. Before the item was interrupted, Mr Jiří Valenta, Mr Dana Balcarová, Mr Jan Zahradník, Mr Václav Klaus and Mr Langšádlová's factual remark, which I do not see here, so we must leave out the factual comment she wanted to respond to yesterday after 19 o'clock. I will therefore ask for Mr Jiří Valenta's speech. Dana Balcar will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government, at the beginning of my speech I must say that I am very pleased that you presented yesterday, or perhaps just reiterated the Czech national priorities and my reservations about the proposed financial plan for the renewal of the European Union. At the same time, I assume that in your negotiations at the highest level, you will also take into account what has been said by our Members here yesterday and what will also be said here today. All the more so, your negotiating mandate will be stronger and then much less politically attackable. Unfortunately, I must say at this point that not always the wish, or even the resolution of the House, is fully respected by our government. But to the so-called recovery fund. I must point out in this respect that, on the one hand, I am very well aware that the European economy needs to be restarted, on the other hand, but I really do not understand how this economy in the quotation marks of the greatest well-being in history, as some would-be experts have recently marked it, could have been in a state of near clinical death within a few weeks. Something in this supranational economic gearing will therefore be wrong and this needs to be really thought about in the future, although this is obviously not just a question for the Czech Republic. It may be enough to replace a system component, but I rather believe that the fundamental problem lies in the inadequacy of the entire European Union's system of management as such, which, among other things, in silence, but all the more favourable for some, tolerates increasing expansion of social scissors. Well, that was kind of a general introduction. But now specifically. As you already know, Prime Minister, huge disputes today raise the condition of cross-compliance with the use of money from the European budget, through the enforced respect of national states for the so-called rule of law, as well as to some sort of unspecified general European values. In practice, this may mean that, in an artificial way, perhaps even by simple judgment, the members of the European Commission may suspend financial flows for disobedient Member States. And such or similar principles can be toxic to the fate of all European cooperation. Soon it may not only be about our colleagues in the V4 group, namely Poland and Hungary, as it is now, but also about us. I do not need to recall the extreme pressure of some Western powers, headed by Germany and France, on the introduction of mandatory quotas for the reception of migrants, even though on Wednesday, for example, the Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany in the Czech Republic, Mr Israng tried to disprove this in the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs. However, the question is whether we should trust him or rather some different expression of the members of the German executive. However, we probably would not want to get on the list of sinners who do not respect so-called European values by rejecting mandatory quotas, and we would be directly destined to be disconnected from European money. That is why I urge you to take a stand in person and radically to prevent this blackmailing method of cross-compliance, not only in connection with the recovery fund, but also with the entire budget of the European Union. My next point is to the principle of solidarity. It is probably logical that countries most affected by coronavirus should also receive the greatest joint support. No doubt. At the same time, let us not forget, however, that states such as Spain and Italy have come to their unenviable situation largely by their own guilt, i.e. by flagrant underestimating the pandemic, and that is why today we will have to support and bail out much more of the common money. And both countries will draw out a whole third of the financial package intended for the recovery of all the countries of the European Union. You should also stress this, Prime Minister, in your negotiations at the highest level, when you say how the Czech Republic has handled the pandemic perfectly. And if she can no longer do this, or maybe she doesn't want to do our Euro Commissioner, as much as she doesn't want to go on fighting the double quality of food and so on and so on, you have to replace her in this regard, even because you like to say that Mrs Jourová is not in the European Commission for YES or even for kicking for the Czech Republic. But your mistake remains her unfortunate nomination with an attitude that is extremely far removed from our country's interests. Furthermore, I would also like to support this speech by trying to make a much more flexible use of EU money, whether from grants or loans. I remind and repeat that the redistributed sum will amount more than 20 trillion crowns across the European Union, and it will probably cost the Czech Republic EUR 20 billion, more precisely EUR 19.2 billion. However, I must also recall that most of the 750 billion package will be linked to the Commission's investment priorities, as Vice-President Valdis Dombrovskis also pointed out. However, I see a certain problem in the fact that these priorities may not always coincide with the real needs and interests of individual national states and, in extreme cases, they can also go against each other. I can at namátkově mention that, according to the European Commission, money should be directed primarily towards climate sustainable projects or into projects accelerating the transition to the green economy. And it is this area that we do not even have a proper discussion here in the Czech Republic. And I would rather not talk about the possibility of reaching a political consensus on some so-called green projects. It's minimal. [[10.40 hours]] Not only in my opinion, the funds raised should go into infrastructure, for example. In this context, with gratitude, I also acknowledge the intended further route of money to coal regions or, for example, support and rural development. Furthermore, I am a little embarrassed by the information that the direct payment within the EU funds should be less than 9 billion for the Czech Republic. EUR and the larger part of the amount allocated, i.e. EUR 10.6 billion. The euro should consist of interest-bearing loans. But in my opinion, the negotiated ratio of grants and loans should be completely different, at least the opposite, because I believe that loans as such, albeit in some way advantageously charged, are only half the real use of the affected country. However, as many citizens do not know, the European Union wants to borrow the entire amount of the extraordinary support package in the financial markets without precedent for the time being. In this simple information, however, there is one very important and interesting and suspicious aspect for us, and that is that the Czech Republic should guarantee a higher amount of money borrowed within the EU than it will actually obtain from it, and that is not quite right. I'm asking you, it's true. If so, why and for what reason? Ironically, I also see this, in line with your opinion, when you spoke in agreement with the Committee on European Affairs that the proposed support system for grants and loans could sound much more for countries with high unemployment before the pandemic. So this is really perfect, in quotation marks, an incentive factor for many EU countries, how not to fight domestic unemployment and rather always wait and adjust their hand. This criterion punishing the country for its success should certainly also disappear from the conditions of the aid allocated, and I hope that we are in this together. Dear Prime Minister, colleagues, I have actually mentioned here only some major, striking aspects which, at least in my opinion, cannot be crossed simply by a simple wave of hands. The Coronavirus crisis was historically and territorially unique and its impacts on the whole European economy, which I consider extremely unstable, very sensitive. And if, for this reason, we want not only the whole of the EU, but also citizens of the Czech Republic to be indebted in any way in the future, albeit in God's intention, it must have its rational, fair and appropriate rules. And as a Czech Member and a citizen, not as an abstract Eurogent, I appeal to you now, Prime Minister, to always bear in mind the legitimate interests of Czech citizens in your every negotiation in the structures of the EU, and I will only be happy if you will also take into account some of my comments that I have outlined here. And last but not least, I wish, at the same time, that the negotiating mandate given not only to you by the House, but also by the relevant law, by the Committee on European Affairs, should always be respected afterwards. Thank you. In conclusion, I am not proposing a resolution, and I believe that the Prime Minister will keep what he promises here, but also in the media, so loudly, and I largely agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u3	I thank Mr Jiří Valent. Before I give the floor to my colleague Balcarová, my colleague Kopřiva is making a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, colleagues. I would just like to clarify, I mentioned this yesterday in my speech in the general debate. It is not true what my previous speaker said that the Commission would borrow unprecedentedly. She already borrowed twice and then borrowed the money or worked as a mediator, the European Commission, for a loan to Ireland and Hungary. They're already paying off the debt, so the mechanism is verified. What is unprecedented is the amount of the loan and also the fact that the money is to be distributed in the form of grants, not just in the form of another loan. But we are also in an unprecedented crisis, and since the European Commission has a better rating than most Member States and the Czech Republic, it seems to make sense that we will borrow through the European Commission, or we will get those grants from the European Commission's loan. So it's not true that she's borrowing for the first time, the mechanism already works, it's proven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u5	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I don't see my colleague Balcarová, she's failing her application. Now a colleague of the Zahradník. But before I give him my word, with a factual remark, his party colleague Jan Skopeček will see him through. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u6	I want to respond to my colleague Kopřiva. After all, the Czech Republic can borrow at very low interest rates. This is not a principle that would be advantageous for the Czech Republic, and this is done because of the overindebted countries of the southern wing. If we were to borrow it, we would borrow it at very low interest, and we would be able to use it according to our priorities. Here we borrow or here the European Commission will borrow part of it into our account, and it will still tell us under what conditions and what we can draw the money on. So it is completely disadvantageous for the Czech Republic and, on the contrary, it is beneficial for the southern states.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u7	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And now two more factual points - Tomáš Martínek, then Jiří Kobza. So now, Mr Tomáš Martínek, with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u8	I'm just here briefly for Mr Skopeček through Mr President. Of course, we are still borrowing some advantage today, but the loan for the EU has a more favourable status thanks to the rating and is lower interest than for the Czech Republic. That's right. If the European Commission wants to borrow it and if it wants to borrow the Czech Republic, the European Commission will have lower interest, even if only a little bit. It's just a fact. That's what's happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u9	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Jiří Kobza, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to respond to my previous speakers, and I would like to remind you of one more question that I took the liberty of asking the Prime Minister at the previous session of the European Committee, when I asked him about the question of European bonds, what are the conditions for trading these bonds, how they will be repaid, how they will be available and how the guarantees of the 27 will be tied up for the loans to be collected on these bonds. There was no such information at the time, but I have to admit that I still haven't received the answers to these questions, so maybe I'd like to ask the Prime Minister for your help... [[The Prime Minister's reaction off the microphone.]] Oh, well, we don't have the information yet. I got the answer. Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u11	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. So now a duly registered colleague Jan zahradník, will be prepared by Václav Klaus. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u12	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, this is indeed a huge amount of money that the EU wants to borrow, perhaps, to be better said, to be printed. The EUR 750 billion they are talking about is CZK 20 trillion. So this is no bailout package, as this financial volume was called here yesterday in the debate. It's a lot of money. The President of the European Commission cites the survival of the European economy, the survival of the European common market as the main reason for it. Yes, these are commendable objectives, but it is noteworthy that these fundamental things for EU citizens want to address its leadership with a green ideology bet. The basis of this green path to saving the European economy is so-called. Green New Deal or Green Agreement for Europe, if you will. This Green Agreement, which has already been submitted by the European Commission at the end of last year, will be based on a number of directives and regulations which will eventually regulate the spending of this money. These will, of course, have consequences for the citizens of the EU Member States, because they will have to be implemented into the rule of law of European countries and will, of course, have an impact on national economies. At the end of my speech, I will then put forward a motion for a resolution in this regard. [[10.50 hours]] The taxonomy directive of the European Union determines how this huge money package will be dealt with, for which it will be allowed to use that money. This directive was already approved in June this year at second reading in the European Parliament and, as such, will no longer go into the trialogue and will not be approved by the European Council. We will therefore have to implement it directly into our legal system, and thus all hope of changing something in it is limited to zero. But, ladies and gentlemen, I want to focus on energy problems in my speech. As we know, nuclear energy is a key part of our energy mix at present and should mainly be in the future. Prime Minister Babiš here yesterday spoke about how strongly he supported our core interests at the European Council and in European structures. He described everything he managed to enforce in this area. I must say, Prime Minister, that neither in the Green Agreement for Europe nor in the taxonomy is there a word about nuclear energy. Thus, the possibility of support from European funds is excluded here and our only hope is to at least try to find a certain degree of tolerance when discussing our application for notification, because without it, of course, not only will we not get any money for our energy capacity, but we will not be allowed to build it by the European Commission at all. So no great accomplishments, Prime Minister, have been noted in this regard, and you and your government have failed to enforce anything in these crucial documents. The government, especially its chairman, Mr Babiš, must do everything in its power to save something else. I would now like to introduce them to three tools that he could use to do this. First of all. There is a letter from a group of scientists and environmentalists from academic and civil society. On 24 April this year, they turned to the Vice-Presidents of the European Commission Timmermans and Dombrovskis and the Commissioner for Energy Simson with a call for nuclear energy to be included in that EU taxonomy in order to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. [[Commissioner]] [[Simson]] According to them, the core should be the basis for stability in climate-neutral Europe. This decision must be based on scientific evidence and must not be influenced by political or ideological views. Under this letter we will find logos of a number of scientific and social institutions, random Czech Academy of Sciences, Mathematical and Physical Faculty, a number of universities from the Czech Republic and Slovakia. The second instrument I would like to recommend to the Prime Minister is a letter sent by Polish climate minister Michał Kurtyka to Commissioner Simons on 22 June. [[Commissioner]] [[Simsons]] It states that Poland supports the path to climate neutrality, on which it wants to use both renewable resources and nuclear energy. It expresses the surprise - Minister Kurtyka - that nuclear energy is not mentioned at all in the Green Agreement for Europe, and strongly calls for negotiations to be held on the agreement to include it in the European taxonomy. Here, as I said before, I'm not sure there's any such hope at all. Poland currently has no nuclear power plants, but according to Minister Kurtyka, it is going to reduce the share of energy from coal from 82 per cent to 32 per cent and to build six nuclear reactors covering 18 per cent of consumption. Well, here we are, Prime Minister, allies to enforce our efforts. The third instrument is the known fact that the sources of minerals needed for the construction of renewable resources are largely located in China. Therefore, if the European Union has decided to go the way of solar and wind power, this path will not go without building energy storage facilities. And the raw materials that are needed - because, of course, both solar and wind are completely unreliable - must be stored for a time when the sun is not shining and the wind is not blowing - so these resources are located in China. So they are controlled by China. Likewise, if the European Union wants to focus on gas, as Germany is already beginning to do, there is dependence on Russia. So I consider it very unfortunate to put my future on the line with these two world powers. I therefore appeal to you, Prime Minister, like my colleague Valenta, with a strong request that you use all options, all possible alliances, to promote nuclear energy as a clean emission-free resource in the European Union. Not only in the form of a formal vague statement, but in order for real nuclear energy to be included in taxonomy, or even in the Green Agreement itself. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the motion for a resolution which reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, in connection with the resolution of the economic consequences of the coronavirus crisis, calls on the Government to draw up an impact study of proposed measures at EU level, in particular those based on the Green Agreement for Europe and the various sectors of the Czech economy before the final adoption of these measures." The reason for my proposal is that I think - and I have always done so when discussing the essential documents that we had to implement from the European Commission - that we simply need to first know what impact they will have on our citizens, on our economy, on our social relations and on our social area, that is, on the whole economy. Only then can we make responsible decisions on these matters, either at the level of the government or at the level of the House. So I will then sign up for this proposal in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u13	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník for his speech. Mr. Václav Klaus will now appear and Jan Skopeček will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u14	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to comment on this issue for the Tricolore movement and also read the resolution to which I am going to sign up in a detailed debate. The European Union has failed completely in the very difficult days of the coronavirus strike. That's not our position, that's what you've all seen with your own eyes, and even here, the local fifth column here was quiet like oukropeks, and they didn't even respond when I criticized the place. I think they're gonna come running up here to talk tonight, and they're gonna mess me up and fix me up. But the European Union has indeed proved to be a bureaucratic pier who has done nothing, leaving everything on national governments that have desperately tried to resolve the situation in some way. But right now, as soon as it got a little tougher, as the health situation improved, it's coming up with a new plan. And the plan is clear. It is more Europe, smaller powers of national states, consolidation of the supranational state of the European Union, common taxes, common liability for debts. That is what it brings, and we, for the Tricolor movement, say fundamental, not fundamental. [[11.00 hours]] I've been talking about the four kinds of taxes that are going on the other day. I really do not want us to guarantee the debts of Italy, Spain and other countries. There's no reason for that. Soon I will comment on the ruling movement here, but I would also ask our opposition. I noticed, I didn't, my son told me, that the pirát, TOP 09, the People's Party and STAN are calling on the government or some resolution to support it. Don't be mad at me, it's schizophrenia. You're slowly beating your head against the counter that the government is 500 billion. The axe and how uneconomical it is and how we must not know how to behave, and you rightly criticize Minister Schillerová, but here we come with a debt of 750 billion. EUR, which is mathematically, for example, infinitely more, and that is okay, we will all support that. That's absolutely not normal. To be fair, this debate is, of course, about the position of YES and the Prime Minister. Because don't be mad at me, it impresses me that your strategy is to criticize it in Lightning, criticize it here on the microphone for voters, but then rather run away from the O.R. and not let it vote to cover up the government's approval. So I would like to clarify this position of yours. Because your word is yes, yes, or no, no. Either you are the Euro-Hungarian Party, you will introduce the green devastation of Europe, you will give this to Czech citizens, or you will defend them. But it is not possible to say that you are defending them, and at the same time quietly do the opposite, as your MEPs often do. My resolution will be: 'The Chamber of Deputies is ordering the government, firstly, to veto the European Commission's proposal for common European taxes, and secondly, to veto the European Commission's proposal for joint bonds'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u15	Thank you. Mr Vlastimil Válek, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u16	I just wanted to thank you very much for your assistance to Mr Klaus, because I would not have believed that there would be a Member with the courage to propose that the health policy would be a common EU policy. I don't think that's what happened here before. I thank him very much for the proposal. And I hope that this will also be the motion for a resolution that the Chamber of Deputies, because that is how I understand it, recommends that the government push the EU for health to be a united EU policy. Personally, I think that's right. And I fully agree in this regard with the Tricolore movement and the Member through Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u17	Thank you. Mr Jan Skopeček in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u18	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna try to be short, I got off last night. However, the pitiful number of Members in discussing such an important matter motivates me to recapitulate my main arguments. I think this is an example where we see again and again that any crisis will be used by the EU to strengthen its powers and, on the contrary, to weaken the powers of national states. In fact, it is in this proposal. This proposal is by no means something that should help euro area countries from the crisis because of coronavirus. This package is in order to allow for a continuation of debt living in the southern part of the euro area, in particular, which meets its limits. The fact that von der Leyenová is leading us on in this President of the European Commission also shows that, according to various data, the European economy in the coming years, as well as the European Commission's data, is expected to return to growth after this year's relatively strong decline. The European Commission is expecting next year, so I am a little skeptical about it, but the European Commission is expecting positive economic growth next year. And yet, the President of the European Commission tells us that we must be in debt with a huge package of 750 billion. CZK 500 billion, respectively, that he wants to borrow in the financial markets to fight the covid. We will fight the Covido for the next 30 years, according to this President, and it will be an anti-crisis measure despite the fact that its own European Commission expects positive economic growth next year. I think if we put these simple thesis, simple sentences, verifiable, together, we have to get one thing. This package has nothing to do with this case. Covid is used in this sense to make another rather significant leap in European integration, to deepen the integration process. I think this is the biggest leap since the Maastricht and Lisbon Treaty. Why do I think that? This is because, in this proposal or in those proposals that are mentioned, there is talk of a common European tax, something that European federalist European elites have been trying to do for decades. What individual Member States or some Member States have been blocking so far is now to be accepted as a result of coronanavir in quotation marks. It is also by overcoming the Rubikon and joint liability for eurozone debt. The same scenario is repeated here against the southern part of the euro area. What has put these countries in trouble? These countries, the southern wing of the eurozone, have put the euro's common currency into the problem, which has allowed them to borrow at relatively significantly lower interest rates than their performance, their economic performance, and the health of their public finances. Only the common currency allowed them to borrow at the same interest rates as Germany or those better-run countries with much better productivity, with much better economic performance and much better public finance health. This, of course, could have been realized for some time. Greece could have borrowed this very cheap money that didn't match their performance, but at some point it hit it. And we, instead of dealing with the nature of the problem, want to go out with a wedge, and we want to offer the pre-debted south another debt at a lower interest rate than it would be responsible for what they would borrow on their own financial markets. When I said it had nothing to do with the impact of the coronavirus crisis, because it is to be overcome economically in the next year, but the debt is planned for the next 30 years, so why is the EU actually imposing it on us? What is the main reason why the European Commission wants to borrow like this? These are not, of course, the effects of coronavirus. It is one or one of the major parts of why this is happening - of course, financing the Green Agreement. Green religion in the EU has been ruling for a long time. Some might have thought that the economic problems caused by Coronavirus would be a milestone when we in the EU would consider whether really all the drastic regulations and restrictions that will be related to the Green Agreement, if there is no time after the economic impact caused by Coronavirus is to rethink and ease stagnant or declining European economies. The opposite has become the truth. Instead of disbanding these strict regulations, stachanovsky has increasingly increased, more stringent and stricter targets, which will further reduce the competitiveness of the entire European continent, and this will not, of course, avoid the Czech Republic, which, thanks to its or because of its dependence on the automotive industry, will also be damaged, because a large part of the regulations related to Green Deal are, of course, targeted against the automotive industry, which will mean our economic weakening and growth of the number of unemployed people working in the automotive industry today. I have already said here that in a detailed debate, I will read the various resolutions that we want to equip the Prime Minister with for these meetings, to give certain red lines that we should not go for as the Czech Republic. Such a minimum set of requirements. I will read them in a detailed debate, please support them. It's nothing against the government. On the contrary, it is an attempt to equip the Prime Minister with a strong mandate to negotiate within the EU so that the package, the final compromise is advantageous for us, and that we do not push forward as incomprehensiblely for me by some opponents, so that we do not forward with the semi-finished product, which no one today knows how it will end in the finals. [[11.10 hours]] Today, the semi-finished product is being cooked. We don't like some of the ingredients there. What we don't like there are common taxes, joint debt sharing. We do not, of course, like the mechanism for redistributing money, which is better for Slovakia, on the contrary. We don't like it there, let's negotiate it. But it doesn't make any sense to nod the semi-finished product that's just being cooked today. I think it is undignified Members who are supposed to defend the interests of Czech citizens to give such a blank cheque and nod forward to everything that comes from Brussels. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u19	Thank you. Mr Ondřej Benešík, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u20	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. KDU-ČSL tries to apply the principle of subsidiarity and we try to project it as far as possible into our European policy. The principle is quite simple. Things are supposed to be dealt with where it's most effective. Some things are good to deal with, or they are more effective at European level, some are effective at national level and some are, for example, regional or municipal, I think we all know this. Such a small example of our lances and groovies. The highway manages the state, it is logical, it is the backbone communication, the central authorities, and the districts, the roads of the second and third classes, on the contrary the regions, because of course they have less meaning, it is the principle of subsidiarity in practice. I am a little surprised that it is actually indirectly called for us to transfer health competence from that national level to the European Union. We as KDU-ČSL are very, very cautious in this. We do not think that this is okay, or we would like to, we can have the debate, but that health competence remains at the national level, so that it does not go any further. As for the fact that the European Union is sometimes mentioned here, the European Union has told us, Brusel has told us - we are now discussing the position of the Government of the Czech Republic, represented at this meeting by the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, who is present here. So this Brusel, we too, have a voice there and, in fundamental matters, specifically as regards, for example, the European Union's own revenue, the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic has the right to veto. We don't have to accept absolutely anything, and in most of these cases, we can just turn down things that we don't like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u21	Mrs Helena Langšádlová, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would first like to respond, through Mr President, to the position on health. No one thinks that they have competence to transfer to European Union level. But what has turned out in recent months is that the European Union, as we all know, stands on the free movement of persons, goods, capital and services. And the free movement of persons, but also goods were essentially stopped by coronation, and thus the whole Union was paralyzed and these principles of free movement were suspended. So it is absolutely clear that it is appropriate to talk about coordination, about sharing information at this level as well, because the epidemiological situation in individual Member States has de facto stopped the free movement of persons, but also the free movement of goods. And there I think there is a great deal of room, but probably also within the framework of the existing treaties, in order to improve coordination, so that there is no complete blocking of borders for persons and services next time. I think that's very important. Otherwise, for me, I know that our Prime Minister can block, but I would very much like a consensus, because it is in our interest to see the economic recovery of the entire European Union as quickly as possible. And I would like to say that I also like the motion for a resolution tabled here, and I very much agree with what was said here yesterday, that we are to stand up very constructively and as quickly as possible to reach a recovery agreement, because any delay will actually be our loss.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u23	Thank you. Mr Jan Skopeček, factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u24	Thank you very much. I want to respond to my colleague Benešík, who said that Brussels is us, that we will negotiate there, that we can, if we don't like it, do a lot of shut-in or block it. But then I want to ask him why yesterday - I was able to read the common position of some opposition parties, including KDU-ČSL, which, without knowing what would eventually be negotiated or negotiated in the negotiations, told the Prime Minister in advance before today's debate about the position that we should agree with the recovery plan and that we should accept some things that may be financially disadvantageous for us at first sight. So yesterday, you and the other opposition parties will be invited to accept this, no matter how much we don't know what it's gonna look like, and today at the plenary, I hear we can block something. So what's the truth? Should we block something? I think so, if it is disadvantageous for the Czech Republic, if there are common European taxes, if we are net payers, or the benefit will not be as high for us as it is for other countries, if there is shared sharing. Yes, I think that's when we're supposed to veto it. But how am I supposed to read your statement yesterday, when you say in advance that this is to be accepted, I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u25	Thank you. Mr Benešík, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u26	Thank you for the floor. KDU-ČSL broadly supports this negotiation, supports the philosophy that if we have a Europe-wide problem, it will be better to address it in a pan-European way. Notabene when economies are connected. We're not saying that we have to accept any agreement, anything that's agreed, and I think that if there are lines that are unstoppable, the Prime Minister has the right, he has the opportunity to bring it in, and it's his decision. So, philosophically, we support the negotiations, we support the recovery plan, but that doesn't mean we just have to passively accept everything. The Prime Minister said a few reservations here yesterday. I have made it clear here that many of his reservations can be accepted and we agree, we do not agree with a number of reservations, and there is certainly a number of reservations that he has put forward here that can be discussed. So I think this is not excluded. But KDU-ČSL is definitely in favour of looking for a pan-European problem. However, we are not saying that we should simply take anything at all, and therefore I also stressed that the Czech Republic, through its representative, which is the Prime Minister, has the opportunity not only to negotiate, change, but also to block and veto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u27	We will continue with further factual remarks. First, apologies. Mr Václav Votava from 10.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mr František Elfmark from 12.00 to the end of the day for family reasons. Mr Lubomír Volný votes with replacement card number 2. It is Mrs Helena Langšádlová's point in fact, and Mr Kopřiva, Skopeček, will be prepared with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u28	I'm sorry, but the attitude, the approach of my colleague Skopeček, who was presented here, is really very short-sighted and quite gay. Do I understand that, therefore, all countries that contribute more or will be fifty-fifty should veto this? Because when it comes to it as you call for it, and so those who pay more should veto that it is disadvantageous. It's not like that at all. In the interests of the Czech Republic, but also of other countries, it is for the entire European Union to recover. Yeah, it doesn't matter what it does. This is to go to the objectives that will really lead to an increase in economic growth, to an improvement in the employment situation. This is also an opportunity for the application of new technologies. There are many opportunities. But the real attitude that they are actually merchant numbers - they are not merchant numbers, really in the interests of the Czech Republic is that the economy of the whole European Union as a whole should recover, because if it does not happen, we will only look at it as our budget, so the Czech Republic as an export country will be the first country to pay for it uglyly in employment, in economic growth. We really need to look not only briefly at the budget that we will put into it and what we will get out of it, but at whether the whole of the European Union, its economy, and also whether the European Union and European countries will be competitive as a whole. I think that's the essence of what we're talking about right now. I think it's a very short-sighted look that was presented here. Yes, it is true that the Prime Minister will certainly negotiate the best conditions for the Czech Republic, that is certainly his role, but they are not merchant numbers. We have to look at this in a broader context.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u29	Thank you. Mr František Kopřiva, a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u30	Thank you for the floor. I'd follow up on the balance sheet, how we're gonna get out of this. So as for the new funds, the recovery plan, there are a lot of factors that still matter, like how much loans we take and so on, and what condition our economy gets into, and we're getting about 50-50. But I would personally support the plan, even if we were to be clean payers, because, as I said yesterday, we've been taking money from clean payers until now. The Czech Republic has gained over 800 billion for its membership in the European Union. CZK 15 years, and so did Italy and Spain. So now, as part of the recovery, it should be our turn. However, we don't come out of this like big payers, we're gonna be about 50-50 at worst, or we're gonna still be beneficiaries. And, as I mentioned yesterday, this is also the case with the classic multiannual financial framework, where we are still clean beneficiaries, so we will still be clean beneficiaries in the total volume in the next period. And as for the taxes, that seems a little misleading right now, because it's not on the table right now. In these documents, and we have only the Prime Minister's information point, his negotiating position, but we will probably be here at the next meeting to comment on the specific documents, and there are no new European taxes. These are contained only in a hint where the Commission proposes several ways to repay the joint loan. One way is to pay it back to those clean payers, the less we'd probably get on those classic funds like cohesion and so on, or there's another option proposed or considered, these are common taxes, but they're more like customs, and customs are already being levied by the European Union. After all, the carbon border adjustment tax, it's actually a reflection of the fact that we're supposed to push other states to also move towards climate-neutral targets so that they don't just bring in products that are made cheaply because they don't set standards. [[Your time is up.]] [[unintelligible.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u31	Thank you. Mr Jan Skopeček, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u32	I would like to respond to my colleague Langšádlová through you, Mr President. If something is short-sighted, it is your position, my colleague, because you, without knowing the final form of the agreement today, have the final parameters, not only as to how much we are getting or not getting, but a whole bunch of other things, such as common taxes and joint liability for debts, so approving it and calling on the Prime Minister forward before we even started talking about it today to approve it, no matter what it looks like, that's short-sighted for me. That's one. Secondly, I never said that the most important parameter of this agreement was the redistribution mechanism for me. Even on the committee where you were, even here yesterday, I stressed that I would have considered it a huge defeat if we had received some extra money in quotation marks under the final agreement and approved for this, for example, the principle of common European taxes or the principle of common debt. I prefer to raise less money for the Czech Republic, although I think that the Prime Minister must defend Czech interests and fight for more money in the budget, but a much greater victory for me will be if I manage to prevent common European taxes and joint liability for the debts of euro area Member States. And I want to ask you if you don't find it short-sighted that while you are fighting the principle of debt management in the state budget, it doesn't bother you that at European level, the European Union will now borrow more than 500 billion. The euro that will begin to pay off with an old delay, so that our children will pay back. So when you talk about the budget, debt financing bothers you, debt financing on the European Union is okay. It's not nearsighted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u33	Thank you. Mr Vojtěch Munzar, Mr Kopřiva will be prepared, then Mrs Langšádlová, with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Hello again, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to follow up on the debate that is going on here, particularly on Mr Kopřiva. I really fear that under the guise of the Plan to support the recovery of Europe, we have here a plan for the common bonds of the European Union States and also a plan for common taxes. I fear that Europe wants to go beyond a certain Rubikon and do things that were taboo a few months ago, under its cloak and excuse for the past coronation. I certainly don't think he's hurting us either. We are harmed by the long-term unemployment distribution model, because if it should be a response to the allocation of funds to the coronavirus crisis, long-term unemployment indicators from the period of economic growth cannot be taken there. I think that we should really think here that we are the Czech Parliament, think about Czech national and Czech economic interests and act accordingly. And, in my opinion and my deep conviction, common European taxes are not in the interests of our country, our economy. He has already mentioned several times the New Green Deal itself will mean enormous pressure on private finances, on public finances, and at the same time we will have to pay debts for joint loans of money, which will often go on to measures that will further increase pressure on Czech private and public resources. So I think the government should be aware of this, the Prime Minister should act this way, so I can think that unfortunately the position of the Czech Prime Minister within... [[Prime Minister, time's up.]] I'll finish it later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u35	Thank you. Mr Kopřiva, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u36	Thank you, I didn't get to finish the taxes in the previous de facto, or rather the duties. It is simply the European Union's opponents who put it like it is a precedent, but it is not. The Commission, as I have already said, is now not on the table in the proposal, so we will not vote on it at all, but it is one of the proposed options to repay the debt so as not to burden the state budgets. And specifically, what's that supposed to be? It is supposed to be own resources based on the emissions trading system, but it already exists, so now the Commission is only proposing enlargement to the maritime and aviation sectors, so it has to do with the climate objectives, but it is expanding something that already works. Then the taxation of companies that derive great benefits from the single market, but at the same time they need to be located in tax havens, typically simply digital giants, which, for example, in the Czech Republic non-taxation, and the only one who can tax them is the whole European Union together. So, by rejecting this tax through Mr President, you support tax havens within the European Union and those giants so that they simply don't pay anything, and yet we give them our personal data that they trade with. I think it's legitimate to tax them normally when they work on the Internet. Next is the carbon settlement mechanism at the border. That's a de facto duty. Once again, we're pushing other powers, China, the United States, etc., so that they can't import products made cheaply here because they just look more when I say it to the people, and in the end, it's the actual digital tax. One proposed tax would be for companies that benefit from the single market overall, and then for those digital giants. So it's nothing new. The first two, that's the expansion of something that already works, and it just makes sense to tax the big corporations that are still in tax havens within the EU.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u37	Mrs Langšádlová, with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u38	Thank you for the floor. In response to what has been said here by Mr Skopeček, I would like to stress that we are not talking about specific proposals for European Union revenue. There are some possibilities on the table, and I would like to say that it is acceptable for us to talk about these proposals, because there are simply taxes - a digital tax has been mentioned here, where it would be much more appropriate to collect it at European Union level. And as my colleague has already said here, there are a number of other options that we should be talking about because that makes sense. And the European Union has a common income and the common income is tax collection, virtually. customs duties on the external border because we are a duty-free zone. This is just a strengthening of actually this own income, which now exists at the level of the European Union and the European budget. It is also legitimate in the context of this crisis to open up the debate so that there are concrete proposals on how to strengthen the European Union's budget itself. [[11.30 hours]] Plus, there's one thing we're talking about here that we're talking about very little. We are still talking about how much the Czech Republic will actually get directly from the budget or from the recovery plan, but we are very little talking about how we are able to draw Community resources on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. This is actually the money package that is now in Brussels, which individual Member States are competing for, which is increasingly high, and let us discuss whether we can make good use of all these resources, whether we are successful in this competition, whether the Czech Republic is doing everything we can to be prepared to have absorption capacity for these resources, which are not directly allocated to individual Member States, but which we will compete for. This is also very important.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u39	Thank you. Mrs Balcarová is excused, so she will not attend the general debate. I have no further application for the general debate, no one is even reporting, so I am ending the general debate. Interested in the final words? Neither the rapporteur nor the appellant. I am therefore opening up a detailed debate. The first party to the detailed debate is Mr František Kopřiva. [[Mr Kopřiva discusses with the President outside the microphone.]] No, you're the first to be logged in, Mr. Ambassador. Come to the speaker's desk. Please. Ambassador, are you interested in getting off? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u40	Thank you for the floor. I originally wanted to speak after the rapporteur, because I have some counter-proposals. We'll work on the procedure. Anyway, I did, as I mentioned yesterday -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u41	Just to clarify, we are not discussing the procedure, we are in a detailed debate, there will be plenty of opportunities to speak up with the counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u42	Okay. I will read the resolution immediately, just to remind you that the Pirate Club, in cooperation with KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN, has drawn up some resolutions that I have already outlined in the general debate. Some of these points are addressed by the rapporteur and therefore also by the club YES. I'll read them, they'll be in common. Then the rapporteur has taken over some of the points and he will load them, but we as authors insist on the original form, so I will read them as counterproposals, and then we have some additional proposals that the rapporteur has not joined. So to sum up, we have three sets of points. So one is common for the Pirates, the People's Clubs, the TOP 09, the STAN and the YES, they are united. Then I will read the counterproposals to the rapporteur and then the points that are extra for the clubs mentioned, so these are the three. [[Noise in the hall!]] Now I'm gonna read the joint for the Pirates' Clubs, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, STAN and YES. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic recalls that the stabilisation of the European single market is in the immediate economic and political interest of the Czech Republic. Furthermore, it calls on the Prime Minister, under the Next Generation EU, to promote, in line with the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic, an increase in funds to cohesion policy and to the Fair Transformation Fund. It calls on the Prime Minister, in line with the government's framework position, to push for an extension of the period for budgetary commitments, ideally for a full seven-year period. It calls on the Prime Minister to support the Plan to support the recovery of Europe in the final vote in the European Council. It calls on the Government to prepare suitable conditions for the easy and fair drawing of European funds. And finally technical. It shall instruct the President of the Chamber of Deputies to refer this resolution to the Government, the President of the Senate, the President of the European Parliament, the President of the Council and the President of the European Commission in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Now I will read proposals that are only for Pirates, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN. The first is: the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic supports the Plan to support the recovery of Europe. - It's here without the People's Club. It calls on the Commission not to raise funds for the common agricultural policy unless there is a rapid change in grant schemes, with an emphasis on sustainable landscape management and climate objectives. Thank you. And then I'm gonna log in one more time, and I'm gonna read the counterproposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u43	Yes. Mr Václav Klaus will now appear. Mr. Jan Skopeček will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u44	Hello. In a detailed debate, I will repeat the motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is ordering the Government to veto the European Commission's proposal for common European taxes and, secondly, veto the European Commission's proposal for joint bonds'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u45	Thank you. Mr Jan Skopeček in a detailed debate. Mr Jan zahradník will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u46	Thank you. I will also repeat the resolution I indicated yesterday in my speech. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requires the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš, to respect the following conditions in the negotiations on the so-called Recovery Plan: 1. prevent the emergence of pan-European taxes and, respectively, the EU's own autonomous income; 2. prevent the introduction of permanent joint liability by Member States for EU debts; 3. in negotiating a compromise on the so-called recovery plan to promote the inclusion of cores among clean energy sources; 4. change the principle of redistributing funds according to the unemployment data into a parameter taking into account the actual consequences of the coronavirus crisis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u47	Thank you. Mr Jan zahradník, the last one entered into a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u48	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I will just briefly sign up for the proposal that I have just read in the general debate and which I have also justified in the general debate. It is available with the rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u49	Thank you. The rapporteur, Mr Adam Kalous, is still in a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to sign up for my proposals for the resolution that I tabled here in the general debate, which we will then vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u51	Yes, thank you. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? Mr Kopřiva is reporting for a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u52	I will now draw up counterproposals against the rapporteur's proposals. Mostly it's just that there's only a difference that there's no words. The originally proposed version is, in our opinion, more general, and by the rapporteur's version, we needlessly close some possibilities, some doors. So we're going to support them, at least some of them, but we're going to propose an original more general option that will give more room for manoeuvre to the Prime Minister. I do not know what the rapporteur used to call it in the general debate. However, on his first proposal, we have a counterproposition that the Chamber of Deputies supports the direction of European funds primarily in education, innovation and increasing the competitiveness of the Czech Republic. To the other. The Chamber of Deputies considers it necessary for investments to take place in accordance with the principles contained in the Green Agreement for Europe. Third. It calls on the Commission, in addition to cross-compliance with grants and loans, to take account of the state of the rule of law and to check closely the drawing of funds by the Member States.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u53	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? No, I'm done with the detailed debate. There is no interest in final words, so I will ask the rapporteur to introduce us to the various motions for resolutions. We will vote on them, and we must deal with the counterproposals. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I dare to take you through the vote. He's already explained it here in some way, Mr. Kopřiva. I will be the first to vote on a resolution which reads: 'The Chamber of Deputies supports the position of the Government in the Plan to support the recovery of Europe'. Let me remind you that we will vote on each resolution separately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u55	Just so that we do not get into a situation where our procedure is called into question, I remind you that we should proceed by voting on the individual proposals in the order in which they were put forward. And we should also vote on the counterproposal first and then on the text. I would ask you, rapporteur, to manage this vote of ours in this way, because that is the only way to prevent us from getting into any problems with the Rules of Procedure. [[Newsletter: Okay.]] I'm hearing an application for a check-out. I'll do it now. I've checked you all out, please sign up with your I.D. cards in the meantime. Mr. Rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u56	Okay. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will first bring forward the counter-proposal, as it has been tabled, and it is the counterproposal of Mr Kopřiva: 'The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic supports the Plan to support the recovery of Europe'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u57	Is that the proposal we're going to vote on now? [[The rapporteur agrees.]] Okay. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 35, 145 Members registered, for 46, against 19. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u58	We will therefore now vote on the original motion for a resolution, which reads: 'The Chamber of Deputies supports the position of the Government in the Plan to support the recovery of Europe'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u59	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 36, registered by 146 Members, for 85, against 16. [[on board 86]] The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u60	We will now vote on the resolution on which there was consensus, i.e. we will vote on a resolution which reads: 'The Chamber of Deputies recalls that the stabilisation of the European single market is in the immediate economic and political interest of the Czech Republic'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u61	Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 37, 147 Members registered, for 123, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u62	We will now vote on the counter-proposal that Mr Kopřiva has read, and the motion for a resolution is: 'The Chamber of Deputies supports the directing of European funds primarily into education, innovation and increasing the competitiveness of the Czech Republic'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u63	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 38, registered by 148 Members, for 57, against 1. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u64	So and now we will vote on the original motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies supports the directing of European funds primarily into education, innovation, infrastructure and increasing the competitiveness of the Czech Republic through convergence'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u65	Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 39, registered by 148 Members, in favour of 114, against 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u66	Another counterproposal by Mr Kopřiva: 'The Chamber of Deputies considers it necessary for investments to take place in accordance with the principles contained in the Green Agreement for Europe'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u67	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 40, 145 Members signed in for 29, versus 68. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u68	We will now vote on the original motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies considers it necessary for investments to promote green and digital transformation and improve the European Union's infrastructure interconnection'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u69	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 41, registered by 148 Members, for 95, against 29. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u70	Yes. There was consensus on the next resolution. This means that we will vote on the resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Prime Minister to promote, in line with the interests of the Czech Republic, an increase in funds to cohesion policy and to the Fair Transformation Fund'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u71	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 42, registered by 148 Members, for 120, against 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u72	Another resolution on which we will vote, on which there is consensus: 'The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Prime Minister, in line with the government's framework position, to push for an extension of the period for budgetary commitments, ideally for a full seven-year period.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u73	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 43, 148 Members registered, in favour of 108, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u74	Another resolution on which we will vote, on which there is consensus: 'The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Prime Minister to support the Plan to support the recovery of Europe and its financing in the final vote in the European Council.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u75	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 44, registered by 148 Members, for 107, against 21. The motion was accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u76	Another resolution on which we will vote is: 'The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to prepare suitable conditions for the easy and fair drawdown of European funds'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u77	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 45, 148 Members registered, for 128, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u78	Another resolution on which Mr Kopřiva's counterproposal is to be put to the vote is: 'The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Commission to take account, in addition to cross-compliance with grants and loans, of the state of the rule of law and to monitor closely the drawing of funds by the Member States'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u79	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 46, registered by 150 Members, for 31, against 17. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u80	And now, therefore, the original text of the motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Commission to take into account, in addition to cross-compliance with grants and loans, the rule of law and to check consistently that the drawing-up of funds will comply with the laws of the Member States.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u81	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 47, registered by 151 Members, for 99, finally for 100, against 10. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u82	We will now only vote on the resolution proposed by Mr Kopřiva here, as amended: 'The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Commission not to raise funds for the common agricultural policy unless there is a rapid change in subsidy schemes, with emphasis on sustainable landscape management and climate objectives'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u83	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 48, 151 Members signed in, for 35, against 23. [[150 glows on the board]] The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u84	We are now coming to the proposals for a resolution by Mr Skopeček, on which we will vote separately. The first motion for a resolution is: 'The Chamber of Deputies requires the Prime Minister to negotiate on the so-called 'Prime Minister'. The recovery plan respected the following conditions of the Czech Republic: firstly, to prevent the emergence of pan-European taxes, respectively. the European Union's own autonomous revenue.';
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u85	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 49, 151 Members registered, for 41, versus 22. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u86	Another resolution by Mr Skopeček: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic obliges the Prime Minister to negotiate on the so-called 'Prime Minister'. The recovery plan respected the following conditions of the Czech Republic, in order to prevent the introduction of permanent joint liability by Member States for the debts of the European Union."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u87	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 50, 149 Members signed in for 44, versus 2. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u88	Another resolution is the motion for a resolution which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies is ordering the Prime Minister to negotiate on the so-called 'Prime Minister'. the recovery plan, when negotiating the compromise, pushed for the inclusion of the core among clean energy sources.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u89	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 51, 149 Members signed in for 93, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u90	The last motion for a resolution by Mr Skopeček is a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requires the Prime Minister to negotiate on the so-called 'Species'. The recovery plan respected the following conditions of the Czech Republic, namely to change the principle of redistributing funds according to the unemployment data to a parameter taking into account the actual consequences of the coronavirus crisis."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u91	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 52, registered by 150 Members, for 120, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u92	We are now coming to the proposals for the resolution of Mr Václav Klaus, which we will be voting on. So the motion for a first resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is ordering the Government of the Czech Republic to veto the European Commission's proposal for joint European taxes and veto the European Commission's proposal for joint bonds."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u93	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 53, 151 Members signed in for 42, versus 40. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u94	Thank you. And the last resolution proposed is Mr Zahradník's resolution, as amended: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, in connection with the resolution of the economic consequences of the coronavirus crisis, calls on the Government to draw up studies on the impact of proposed measures at European Union level, in particular a proposal based on the Green Agreement for Europe, on individual sectors of the Czech economy before the final adoption of these measures."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u95	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 54, registered by 150 Members, for 126, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u96	The last resolution on which we will vote: 'The Chamber of Deputies instructs the President of the Chamber of Deputies to refer this resolution to the Government, the President of the Senate, the President of the European Parliament, the President of the Council and the President of the European Commission, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u97	Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 55, 148 Members registered, for 128, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u98	We have therefore exhausted all the votes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-056-02-001-004.u99	Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the rapporteur. This has also exhausted the agenda for this meeting. Meeting adjourned. Have a nice summer.
