ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-002-517.u1	517. Proposal by Members of Ivan Bartoš, Jan Bartošek, Vít Rakušan, MikuláMikulášeferjenčík and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 236/1995 Coll., on salaries and other requirements relating to the performance of the post of State officials and certain state authorities and judges and Members of the European Parliament, as amended /German press 978/ - second reading Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík is present at the rapporteur's table for the plaintiff and I will ask for his seat at the rapporteur's table and Mr Milan Feranc's rapporteur. We ordered the proposal at first reading to be discussed in the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. I ask the representatives of the appellants if they are interested in speaking before the debate begins. It's not like that. I therefore ask the rapporteur Milan Feranc to inform us about the committee's deliberations and to justify any amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-002-517.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you of the resolution of the Committee on Budgets, which discussed the proposal of Members of Ivan Bartoš, Jan Bartošek, Vít Rakušan and others for the issue of the Act amending the Act on salaries and other obligations relating to the exercise of the office of State officials. Following the opening words of the petitioner and the report, the Committee on Budgets: I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament that, with the proposal of Members of Ivan Bartoš, Jan Bartošek, Vít Rakušan and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 236/1995 Coll., on salaries and other requirements relating to the exercise of the office of State officials, agreed, and empowers the rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-002-517.u3	Thank you to the rapporteur and I am opening up a debate in which the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová has signed up with priority rights. Mr. Jan Chvojka, who did not report the priority right, is also registered. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-002-517.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a second wave of epidemics and a large proportion of workers, businessmen, families with children are facing a fall in income. In recent months, some of the revenues have fallen completely to the point of fatality. But to be specific, 13 percent of households have fallen by 30 percent or more since the outbreak began, a large proportion of households have savings for a maximum of two months. In 26 percent of households, income has fallen by 10 percent or more since the outbreak began, and even 30 percent and more of households with higher savings are also facing a decline in income. So if I sum up, almost 40 percent, specifically 39 percent of households have a decrease in income of at least 10 percent, and yet these households have no significant savings to help them figure out this decline. [[10.40 hours]] But the main reason, and that is the main reason why, in May, specifically on May 13th, I proposed a reduction in the salaries of politicians and other representatives of state power. Because I think the state is supposed to breathe with the economy. Social democracy has therefore also proposed a new principle from which politicians' salaries should depend. The principle was simple, to establish a wage base on minimum wages so that people who decide the fates of others would feel how much money many of us have to work in this country. However, as we all know, this proposal has not met with support. I think that, despite the record-breaking increase in past years, minimum wage is still shamefully low. We are behind Poland and behind Slovakia. But, as I have already mentioned, no one supported this proposal for social democracy. We've been trying to find a solution for weeks and months. Unfortunately, and that is true, the House is in this overcrowded, blocked I would even say to myself. Some House matadors tell me that in the past, when there were 200 unnegotiated laws in the House, the House was panicking, especially one year before the elections. At this point, we have 500 unnegotiated laws. For this reason, I want to join the pirate proposal and thank you for it, because at this point, it is the law that has the best chance of negotiating by the end of this year. It is a parliamentary proposal, which is why we are joining it as a social democracy. In order for everything to be done by 1 January, we are using this carrier, but I must say that simply freezing a salary base does not solve anything. It will create another problem for us, which we will have to solve right at the beginning of next year, how to avoid from 1. 1. 2022 to a jumping increase in the salaries of state officials. That is why we have prepared an amendment at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which will be tabled by President Chvojka, Chairman of the ČSSD parliamentary club, and which is also dealt with in coalition. What this amendment is about. We agree to freeze salaries from 1 January next year. This is the freezing of the salary base for 2021 to the level of this year. But beyond that, we come up with a system solution for the years to come. I repeat, if we have failed to reduce the salaries of state officials, at least we want to freeze the salaries and prevent the leap growth in the coming years. Therefore, we are proposing a new calculation from 2022, when the new link to the average wage will be throughout the national economy. The difference is that the new salary base should not depend on the average wage in the non-business sector, but on the average wage in the entire national economy. As I have already mentioned, this amendment will be read by President Chvojka. Ladies and gentlemen, please, when there is no consensus on a reduction in the salaries of politicians, which, in my view, would be the right step, so as to symbolically support and show the economy that the state is breathing with the economy, please support this carrier quickly in discussing this pirate law, but also a government amendment to ensure that the state and its leaders are in solidarity with tradesmen, workers, families with children. In order for our system to lead to the system to be predictable, it will respond to real-time changes in the economy and there will be no leaping growth of state officials. It would not be fair to everyone else in the entire national economy. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-002-517.u5	Thank you, Minister Jana Maláčová. I now have the priority right of the chairman of the ANO club Mr.Faltýnek and the de facto remark made by Mrs. Miloslava Vostrá. So it's a point of fact. You have your word. I'm taking your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-002-517.u6	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, allow me briefly to respond to the speech by Minister Maláčová, in the spirit that I certainly do not consider it entirely appropriate for her proposal which she has made, that is to say, to establish the salaries of constitutional officials to a minimum wage, for one simple reason. The minimum wage is not a reflection of the economy. The minimum wage is created on the basis of tripartite negotiations and is created by government regulation. This proposal, if it passes, puts us in a very unpleasant role, especially us left-wing parties, who want to put pressure on the increase in minimum wages. And basically, it's going to turn media on us, that we're actually increasing our salaries. So I don't see this proposal as appropriate. I consider it much better, and we will also support it, the proposal that they put forward here - I will take it very simply now, I know that there were more of these speakers - pirát. And of course, we will support the amendment that will prevent the jump that should follow. That's just what I wanted to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-002-517.u7	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now with priority rights the chairman of the club of the ANO movement Jaroslav Faltýnek. You have your word. A colleague of Chvojka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-002-517.u8	Good morning, colleagues, honourable Vice-President, I will not comment and respond to the speech of Minister Maláčová. However, what the President of the Budget Committee said here a moment ago is already a music of the long past, because I think none of us would have supported this nonsense to establish the salaries of constitutional officials to a minimum wage. I would like to say here for our club that there is an amendment tabled or put into the system, a colleague of Chvojka, who will sign up for it. The proposal is for us, it's for the pirát. The pirates had the same proposal, so there's no point in making the same proposals. And we will certainly support this proposal so that next year - and I agree with Minister Maláčová in this regard - we simply freeze our salaries from solidarity with society, to entrepreneurs. And for that further period, so that the salary would be linked by some coefficient to the average wage in the entire national economy. So much for our club very briefly. And I believe that by the end of the year we are able to discuss this law so that we can bring it to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-002-517.u9	I thank my colleague Faltýnek. Now, Mr Chvojka, my colleague, will prepare the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-002-517.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good Thursday morning, colleagues. So they basically said everything before me to the previous speakers, whether they were Minister Maláčová or Minister Schillerová or President Faltýnek. Yes, I am making an amendment, which is a common result of the work of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, with every amendment having to be inserted into the system by someone. It is inserted by my person, with the support and signature of the amendment by the chairman of the ANO club Jaroslav Faltýnek and the chairman of the Pirates club Jakub Michálek. I believe that this amendment will have support in that final third reading, because I think it really introduces a rational calculation of the remuneration of the representatives of power, with the fact that, since the entry into force of the law and some aspects since 2020, the development of the salary base for the calculation of the salaries of State officials and judges should copy the value of the average wage in the national economy, which includes the business and non-business sphere. In our view, this method better reflects the development of the economy, virtually. labour remuneration developments across the entire national labour market. It must also be said that the chosen method of transition to the new indicator also allows for a reduction in the salary of judges, which we can think of, but the case law of the Constitutional Court does not allow. That means there shouldn't be a possible problem with any constitutional complaint afterwards. [[10.50 hours]] That is, the resumé, the gros parliamentary proposal consists of freezing the salaries of Members, as declared in principle by all the parliamentary clubs represented here in the House, and then finally following many years of discussion, the calculation of the salaries on average wages in the national economy, and not just on the non-business sphere. That's where I think it's fairer. And it must also be said that this is an indicator that takes much better account of the state's condition, but at the same time, with one single exception, it also represents some savings for the state budget. And we all know that we have to save, because the value of the salary in the national economy has been since 2000, that is, it is twenty years, with the only exception, in 2012, always, always lower than the indicator we have now. As before, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will declare the level of the salary base for the relevant calendar year in the Collection of Laws and International Treaties by its communication. Thank you for your attention. I will then sign up for the amendment in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-002-517.u11	I thank Mr Chvojka. The Vice Prime Minister has resigned from the debate. I will read the apology made by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. From today's meeting, Mr. Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček apologizes, within 13 hours for reasons of work. I'm reading within 13 hours, which means he's gonna be present at oral questionings. I don't have anyone else for the general debate. I'm asking if anyone's checking in. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I ask if there is interest in the final words after the general debate. Not the promoter, not the rapporteur either. I can open the debate in detail. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled by the detailed debate must be justified. The first is registered by colleague Jan Chvojka, then by representative of Pirates Mikuláš Ferjenčík. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-002-517.u12	Thank you for the floor. So I have already approved and justified the amendment tabled by me, President Faltýnek and President Michálek in the general debate. I am now merely signing up once more for him in a detailed debate, and I also say that this amendment is in the system, registered, under House number 6739. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-002-517.u13	Thank you. Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík and then Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-002-517.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would really like us to discuss this by the end of the year. Therefore, I propose a reduction of the deadline to seven days. I do not really consider it adequate for Members' salaries to grow next year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-002-517.u15	Seven days, yes. Mr. Chairman of ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-002-517.u16	I do not know why Mr Ferjenčík constantly stresses that this is only the salaries of Members. Constitutional officials must be told, which is a much wider group. So that we do not give the wrong impression that we are dealing with 200 salaries, but we are dealing with a much wider group, including judges, prosecutors, constitutional officials and those whose salary is derived from the salary of the Member. But I volunteered not to respond to Mr Ferjenčík, but to comment on the amendment. It looks like it's something new. I mean, we totally agree with that principle. The last time we discussed the amendment to the Act on the salary of state officials, we actively supported this because it seems fair to us. And I'm just reminding you of what I've been saying very often in the last few days and weeks, dangerously opening scissors between revenues in the public sphere and in the private sphere. And we should be doing this to turn the trend around, because it is unhealthy for the economy. And it's very hard to explain to employees in the private sphere, I can't explain it, and I don't even want to know why they're forgotten. It's actually easy for employees in the public sphere, in quotes. A political agreement, preferably at government level, will change tables, salaries will increase. But economic reality is different outside the meeting room of the House, Senate or Government. And it is highly unlikely that in the coming months and perhaps even years, wages in the private sector would grow in some way. We will certainly discuss this next week on the tax package, how to possibly increase the income of those who do not work for the state. But I think this is a step in the right direction to take the average wage in the whole Czech economy as a basis. So, while the presidents of the three clubs have put it forward, we others who have supported this have not accepted it, but I needed to say that we support it, that it is right and that it is not just a declaration in our case that we have voted in favour of it in the past, because it is the right approach.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-002-517.u17	Thank you. Who else in the detailed debate? I see no one, and I can end the debate in detail. There was no suggestion that we would return the law to the guarantee committee, but the proposal to shorten the period between second and third reading was made for seven days, which is the maximum permitted under § 95 para. 1, and we will vote on this proposal in the following vote. But I'm gonna go on and ask my colleagues and colleagues to come back to the O.R. The proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion between second and third reading will now be decided in the vote order number 283, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of shortening the time limit. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 283, 83 for 74, against no one. The motion was accepted. So I can end the second reading. I thank the appellants, thank the rapporteur and finish with point 517. We are now returning to the approved agenda for the meeting, first of all to the item
