ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-003-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 247/2020 Coll., on certain measures to mitigate the effects of the Coronavirus known as SARS-CoV-2 on cultural events /house printing 1053/ - shortened negotiations I will ask the House for peace, because we will be judged in accordance with Paragraph 99 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 5 whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law remain in the accelerated procedure. I am opening a debate on whether there are conditions for the application of Paragraph 99 (1). 5. I can't make a real comment because no one's been performing yet. I do not see anyone in the debate, which is why I am ending the debate and we will proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 247/2020 Coll., on certain measures to mitigate the effects of the Coronavirus known as SARS-CoV-2 on cultural events, House Press 1053 in a short hearing." I've started voting number 58 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 58, 91 Members present, for 81, against no one. I note that we have approved the resolution and that we can continue the short-term negotiations. [[10.30 hours]] Government bill amending Act No. 247/2020 Coll., on certain measures to mitigate the effects of the Coronavirus known as SARS-CoV-2 in the field of cultural events, House Press 1053, under the authority of the Government of the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Alena Schillerová. The Government's relevant resolution, the mandate from Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, is based on the file. Please, Madam Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-003-002.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce an amendment to the Act on certain measures to mitigate the effects of the Coronavirus on cultural events, it is the House's press of 1053. In connection with the spread of COVID-19 disease, a number of measures restricting the collection and movement of persons have been gradually taken since spring of this year in the Czech Republic. In order to mitigate the negative economic and social effects of pandemics on live culture involving theatre and film performances, concerts, movement or dance productions, cultural festivals and parades, Law No. 243/2020 Coll., on certain measures to mitigate the effects of the epidemic on cultural events. In case of cancellation of the planned cultural event due to the pandemic, this law allows the organiser to postpone the refund of the admission fee and instead to offer the customer a voucher that can be used for the replacement event. At the same time, the law introduced protection for particularly vulnerable customer groups, leaving them the opportunity to insist on a refund of admission fees. The scope of the Act was limited in time to cultural events held until 31 October 2020. During the summer, while the number of infected people has fallen, the situation has been relaxed, but with the autumn increase in the epidemic, there is again another wave of restrictions on actions, and developments for the future are highly uncertain. Moreover, the Czech Republic has been placed among risky countries, so many artists from abroad cancel their performances or do not arrive for the planned performance. So the situation is similar to that in the spring of this year. The aim of the proposed modification is to set the same conditions for organizers of cultural events and customers for a further period of time as introduced by Law No. 247/2020 Sb. It is therefore proposed to extend the temporal scope of the Act to cultural events to take place until 30 September 2021. The amendment will thus allow the organiser to postpone the refund of admission to events to take place after the amendment is effective until 30 September 2021 and will be abolished due to the epidemic. Protection periods are also being extended. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-003-002.u3	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová for her opening words. I also thank my colleague Marcela Melková, who is rapporteur for this press, for taking the floor at the rapporteur's table. I note that the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the decision of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, has discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House press 1053/1. I will therefore now ask the rapporteur, Mrs Marcela Melková, to inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and to justify any amendments. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-003-002.u4	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, Mr Vice-President, I would like to present a resolution which was adopted yesterday at the Education Committee at its 43rd meeting, namely the Government Bill amending Act 247/2020 Coll., on certain measures to mitigate the effects referred to as SARS-CoV-2 on cultural events. It is the House press 1053/1. That is, the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, following the reasoning of the Deputy Minister of Culture, Mrs Smolíková, Mrs Melková's intelligence report and after the debate I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to close its negotiations by 21 October 2020 at the latest; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that, with a government bill amending Act No. 247/2020 Coll., on certain measures to mitigate the effects of the Coronavirus known as SARS-CoV-2 on cultural events, House Press 1053, agreed as amended by the amendment: Amendment points 3 and 4 of the draft law read: Paragraph 3: Section 3 (b) Article 4 (1) (a) Article 4 (1) (a) (b) "2021" is replaced by "2022." A in point 4: Paragraph 4 (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the word "March" is replaced by the word "December." It also empowers the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Committee's opinion of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. Thank you. That's all I have for the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-003-002.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the report. I'm opening the debate. I have an application from Mr Martin Baxa, who I will give the floor to. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-003-002.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Madam Vice Prime Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, allow me to speak to the bill under consideration, which concerns the shift of actions and the use of the mechanism called. vouchers to relieve those who are affected in the cultural area, especially in the field of organised events. I have to admit, in the spring season, I was embarrassed by the proposal. It was then a standard that was put forward very quickly, but the course of time finally showed that it is one of the partial forms of support that can help, and I would therefore like to make it clear in this context that the Civic Democratic Party Club is ready to support this proposal. However, ladies and gentlemen, I want to add one important thing to this now, and that is that this bill itself, although it will be approved, is really only a minimal way of helping affected areas of culture, affected by cultural events and, in particular, people who are active in culture. The spring season made it feel that, after the most severe part of the epidemic has gone away, and after the great unwinding has come, the cultural operation will actually return to relatively normal tracks during that summer period and that the sectors that have been affected very negatively by the spring coronavirus crisis will buy time to at least partially heal the losses that have occurred to them, and that the mechanism by which the cultural business actually works in that neutral, good sense can be revived and functioned. Then came the fall wave of the epidemic, in which we now, now, find ourselves. Very draconian measures have come back in relation to culture, and we are actually not only in the same situation in the spring, even as we are in a situation that is even worse, because the limited summer season was not enough to make up for the damage, and in fact, the second wave of the epidemic has not been able to replace the losses again. [[as:]] Just to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, we are currently in a situation where, in fact, for several weeks, there have been no cultural events at all, that cultural institutions are closed, that they cannot carry out cultural events either in public or in open public spaces or in buildings. It's just that this sector is completely shut down at the moment. [[10.40 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks, words have been spoken several times, which, in my opinion, was most unfortunate and which spoke of the so-called. leisure activities and the fact that the measures taken by the government, especially in the last three weeks, do not actually interfere with economic activities in this country. I want to talk now in the context that we need cultural activities, culture itself from the point of view of what we are experiencing, how we need culture, what culture is important to us, but in the context that it is very important - I stress the economic - sector. Let me just remind you that the music sector employs - or lives - that is the right term in this context - more than 100,000 people and that the individual performers are just the top in this group, that they are bound by a number of other professions that are necessary to make this whole sector work. I would also like to stress that they are top artists who pass through individual genres. Not in vain in the Czech Republic, they are so desirable. Sound guys, light designers, stage builders. That means next to the section, or next to the part of art, the ones without which this can't actually work. It is estimated, by the way, that this sector had an annual turnover of nearly CZK 20 billion before the crisis. It is also important to say that, in addition to the institutions that are in stone quotation marks, the vast majority of the people who work in these sectors are people who work as a self-employed person or in small companies and for whom this is actually, that they are on so-called. freelance, basic means of living. At present, I stress again, this sector is not working, concerts are not happening, music clubs are closing. The same applies to the theatre sector, whether it is public theatres or independent theatres, which do not have public settlers and for which this situation is truly devastating. By the way, let me just remind you that some of these areas have no economic continuity, that the sector of gastronomy, tourism, accommodation is linked to cultural activities, and that it actually works on a seasonal principle, that in the summer period, when festivals are big outdoor performances, these people are getting some kind of reserve that allows them to cope with the autumn and winter season. That, ladies and gentlemen, is currently all locked up, and none of it actually works. And I want to appeal in this speech not only to help with the form of the law that is now being prepared here, but to be aware of the necessity of culture, the need for culture for living in our country as the Chamber of Deputies, and therefore also to take concrete steps to do so. The first was already in April of this year the allocation of approximately CZK 1 billion from the state budget to help the culture, which was allocated to the Ministry of Culture, which is gradually processing it. I have to admit...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-003-002.u7	I understand, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the House for peace. And the bumps that are being formed here, I'd like them to break up, or discuss topics unrelated to press 1053 outside the meeting room. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-003-002.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. And besides, I've already talked about the need for culture, and the fact that we have to help in particular. I talked about 1 billion from the Ministry of Culture's budget, which was gradually released, which was often very important for regional cultural institutions. But I have to say, it's taken a very long time. Let me just remind you that the aid, which concerns, for example, regional cultural institutions of public institutions, has actually been decided at the end of September. However, this aid was directed either to the organisations of the Ministry of Culture or to regional cultural institutions, and some smaller part of it was directed precisely to the segment, let's say, the culture of unestablished culture, which is based on other principles. Those I was talking about here, in the music industry or in the music sector, in independent theatres, those who simply operate outside public institutions were expecting different help. Help, which will be focused on them, was to be represented by the COVID - Culture I programme. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must say that the COVID - Culture I programme has proved ineffective and ineffective. As much as Vice Prime Minister Havlíček, and I had already confronted him with this, he claimed that the program was written as the cultural actors themselves wanted it to be, so it was not true and it was proved in the bare reality, when of the 900 million crowns that were to COVID - Culture I allocated, a significantly smaller part has been exhausted. It was roughly CZK 200 million. So it was a program that proved to be dysfunctional in this regard, just at the critical time that was so needed. The programme COVID - Culture II is currently being prepared, in which 750 million crowns are allocated. The government, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Industry and Trade present it as a great success. But we have to say, it's not new money. That only the outstanding amounts from the previous programme have moved to COVID - Culture II, and in any event, the amount is small. The conditions of this programme are already much more discussed directly with cultural actors, so they contain a number of very useful measures, whether those aimed at projects and companies that operate in the field of culture, as well as those aimed at the Ministry of Culture. However, I would like to appeal to the fact that in these hours, or a few days, the conditions of COVID - Culture II are still being completely finalized, and yet there are some problematic points, government officials refuse to include some professions in this programme. And there are also some restrictions that, in my view, are unfair, which concern those who have some secondary income, even those income - and it no longer compares whether these revenues are greater or less than they had from their activity in the field of culture. This concerns, in particular, seniors, those who receive maternity or parental leave or students. And it also applies to people who do not have permanent residence in the Czech Republic, which is also unfair during the international mobility of culture and so it should certainly not be. So I call for these conditions to be adjusted so that the impact is as high as possible and that it is as helpful as possible to people who really have lost their livelihood because of the great government restrictions. Of course, there is also a need for help in some other things, such as the remission of advances on health and social insurance for civil servants in culture, the reintegration of the twenty-five, simply other ways to find these ways. And what may now seem very premature, when we are not in the middle, but unfortunately still below the top of the crisis, is also needed to think about what will happen next. This means how this sector will work at a time when, as we firmly believe, the second wave of the epidemic will be able to dampen and when life in our country will perhaps return to normal, and therefore wonder how the individual restrictive measures should be relaxed. At this point, it's very simple. Everything is closed, but it has to be thought about how this loosening will take place, what the rules for organizing cultural events will be. And I very much urge the government and the absent Minister of Culture to negotiate on this matter directly with cultural actors, so that these measures do not take place from government tables, at ministries other than the Ministry of Culture, but in dialogue with those directly affected. And my last request, my last request, is headed right for the Secretary of Finance. I'm sure that CZK 750 million isn't enough. It is evident that this is some kind of partial aid that currently concerns those who could not actually receive any support because of, among other things, the poorly written COVID - Culture I. However, we need to talk about how to help the cultural sector in the next months and months in the spring. I insist, because I think that some damage can be repaired, and some damage can no longer be repaired at all. If, ladies and gentlemen, the music clubs close, if the theatres close, if they end their activities like different orchestras, if those people who have spent decades creating Czech culture's breeding ground find another job out of desperation, then what was here and what we were proud of, what we were proud of in the Czech Republic won't come back. I think that in those volumes that the government pays to compensate for the effects of the coronavirus crisis, the amounts that would significantly help the culture sector are low. Therefore, Madam Secretary, I ask you to consider very well how to help these people. To be open to their requests, to hear the cry for help of those who need it. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no easy times ahead of us in culture. Finally, I would remind the famous motto of the leading Czech benefactor Jan Mládek, who said: If culture survives, the nation will survive. And it may sound pathetic at the moment, but in the context of what I mentioned here about the difficult situation of Czech culture, it may not be so far from the truth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-003-002.u9	I thank Mr Martin Bax. At the performance we have a factual comment Zdeněk Podal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-003-002.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would start by saying that whoever gives quickly twice gives. Without culture, we all know it won't work. But we are just as aware that the situation that is today can get far, far worse, and thus the status of the entire culture. I trust Professor Prymul, and I'm glad he's got the reins in his hands right now, and he's doing everything he can to make sure the curves are fenced and, in fact, to get this company back to where it was. But let's be realistic again. It won't be so soon. It won't even be in the spring, I don't believe it, it's not possible. It's gonna be a long story. It will therefore be necessary for us not to lose culture, because a nation without culture is not a nation, so that we look for further measures such as this measure, where it is a certain withdrawal period and help at least in the worst. But let's look for other ways to maintain culture, how to help culture. The SPD will be helpful in this and support all the proposals that will aim to save culture through this difficult period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-003-002.u11	I thank Mr Podal. Now, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková's factual comment. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-003-002.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, my fellow Members, Madam Secretary, I think that this proposal is very necessary, although it does not solve everything. Thank you to Minister Zaorálek for him. I'm sorry he can't justify it here, because he's just quarantined, so I'm sorry. But I would like to thank all those in the field of culture who didn't throw a gun into the rye, who, even though they can't work live, even though they don't have spectators in front of them, can use the social media, they can use the resources they have. You know, those who are really home, and the older generation, there's just nothing else to do if they want to survive in health, so they're grateful for every good TV show. They're grateful that they can watch it, a concert, a spoken word, anything, even on that computer. Don't think they can do it. And it's very, very important. I want to thank everyone in the cultural sphere for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-003-002.u13	Thank you, Mrs Gajdůšková. I'm just reminding you that a factual remark serves to respond to a previous speaker. Of course, we have the opportunity to enter into a common debate. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová in the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-003-002.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the proposal that we are currently discussing. We know that culture is really in a critical situation and that many areas will be affected and the return will be a long time. I would just like to make some comments on COVID - Culture. We're not discussing that here. But let's hear it in plenary. A number of conditions in this title are restrictive. For example, receiving maternity, old-age or doctoral studies. Furthermore, notes from some artists that the model of 60,000 is of course excellent. Unfortunately, it's a lot to figure out who doesn't fit everything in there. That means parent to parent, but also authors, critics, some technical professions, working students. And I hope that in some way this will be fine-tuned during the next negotiations so that no one really remains flat on the pavement. And it's not quite certain which one of those excluded, in quotation marks, fits into the model of 500 crowns a day. It would be possible to have a solution, and it is necessary to have a concept balanced in the whole republical context and to balance the ratio of the quantity of supply and against its quality. Now, according to the government's steps, it looks like it's just a matter of getting into a state that was here before the pandemic over the years. But that can't be done either, and it's systemically wrong. All these packages should not always be one-off, it is necessary to consider in a longer time perspective. I don't want to say that you can't just do it in quotes, but have a so-called ongoing package, a continuous program. Furthermore, what would be good is that the programme to support professional theatres should be increased to a billion, because it is clear now that municipalities, cities, cannot bear this problem. And, of course, it would be good for the Ministry of Culture, once this is over, to prepare a campaign to promote culture in order to return the viewer. We're gonna need it, or our artists, and we're gonna need it, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-003-002.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Věra Kovářová. That was the last one entered into the debate. I'm asking who's still checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Madam Vice Prime Minister? It's not like that. The rapporteur? The Vice Prime Minister is interested. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-003-002.u16	Thank you. I would only briefly respond to Mr Baxa. It wasn't exactly what you were saying. I listened carefully. I'd like to say that it's not true that there was no help in the culture. Of course, aside from horizontal measures, such as a compensatory bonus, which, of course, also affected workers in culture or Antivirus, the targeted programs are about 2 billion to date, including those approved by the government last week. One whole three hundred... more than two billion. One whole three hundred.... [[He's going back to the reporter's desk for notes.]] Let me say exactly - one whole three hundred seventy, one billion 370 million went into the culture after the first wave. And this week, last week we approved 900 million more in culture. So there's programs going in. There will then be those targeted specific aids to individual and individual artists plus, of course, to all these programs. So I don't think they're gonna go... This, of course, went outside the budget, helping to focus on various affected segments. Of course, I could put it exactly, but I mean, really culture... And when the first amendment to the State Budget Act was needed, we immediately put in $300 million. Because we had no idea what was going to happen. And then, of course, we gradually increased it. So culture is definitely important to us, and we are trying to remember not only by means of government aid, but also by means of targeted measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-003-002.u17	Thank you for the final word. We will therefore now continue to judge, we will continue the debate in detail. I don't have an application for that. So I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. It's not like that. We can therefore also end the detailed debate. I don't think he's gonna be interested in closing words. I'm going to interrupt item number 2 and we're going to deal with the next item in our negotiations. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the Vice-President of the Government, but she will probably stay at the rapporteur's table, because her next point - just a moment longer, Madam Vice Prime Minister. [[11.00 hours]] The third point of our negotiations is:
