ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-003-076.u1	76. Government bill repealing the Senate's statutory measure No. 340/2013 Sb., on real estate acquisition tax, as amended, and amends and repeals other related legislation /house print 866/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. I ask the Minister to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-003-076.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce to you the draft law repealing Senate legal measure 340/2013 Coll., on Real Estate Acquisition Tax, as amended, and amending and repealing other related regulations. There has been a significant increase in real estate prices in recent years. The steep increase in prices is one of the reasons that led to difficulties in housing availability. In the current situation where the company is dealing with a pandemic caused by the spread of coronavirus and has to deal with the impact of this virus on society, it is necessary to respond to this situation. The proposal consists in abolishing the tax on the acquisition of immovable property and, at the same time, in subsequent adjustments to the Income Tax Act, which will result in simplification and clarification of the tax system. The abolition of the real estate acquisition tax will reduce the cost of acquiring own housing, which is rapidly increasing for real estate buyers by increasing the price of real estate and thus complicates the possibility of obtaining own housing especially for young families. The payment of the real estate acquisition tax represents a further spending of a significant amount of money, namely tens to hundreds of thousands of additional crowns, which could otherwise be invested in the repair and reconstruction of real estate, household equipment and other matters related to the acquisition of real estate. As a contribution to the abolition of the real estate acquisition tax, investment in real estate is expected to increase due to a reduction in the cost of purchase, which will lead to a recovery in the real estate market and an increase in the revenue of the State from other taxes, in particular value added tax and income tax. Another benefit of the abolition of the real estate acquisition tax is the reduction of administrative costs associated with the administration of the tax, especially for taxpayers. However, there will also be savings on the part of the State, where it will no longer be necessary to print tax returns, to invest in technical support for the management of the real estate acquisition tax. Several adjustments to the Income Tax Act are also proposed in connection with the abolition of the real estate acquisition tax. The primary reason for the proposed amendments to the Income Tax Act in conjunction with the abolition of the real estate acquisition tax is to remove from the tax system several inconsistent elements which are mutually contradictory. Since free funds originally intended to pay the real estate acquisition tax will now remain available to taxpayers, this amount will no longer need to be compensated by a deduction of interest on the loan to secure the housing needs from the income tax base. Moreover, this deduction was supported in the long run only by taxpayers who used debt financing to acquire their own housing. It was therefore a non-systemic exception. On the contrary, those who received money from their parents could not apply such a deduction. However, the proposed change will involve taxpayers - and here, please beware - who will take care of the housing needs from 1 January 2022. Thus, the existing legislation will apply to old credit relationships, including their refinancing. Another change related to the cancellation of the real estate acquisition tax is the extension of the so-called a time test for the exemption of income from the sale of immovable property not purchased for the purposes of own housing, from the five to ten years to now. In principle, the larger part of the tax advantage enjoyed by investors who invest in real estate at the moment, thus creating more scope for the real estate market to acquire their own housing and contributing to the reduction of speculative real estate procurement. This change will not, however, affect - and, in turn, beware - the exemption of income from the sale of real estate in which the seller is resident or when the taxpayer sells and buys another immovable item in which he will live. The extended time test shall apply only to immovable property acquired from 1 January 2021. The old immovable property will thus continue to be exempted under the original conditions, i.e. a five-year time test. I just want to remind you that if the taxpayer is resident in the property, the time test remains for only two years, nothing will change about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-003-076.u3	I thank the Minister and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Karel Rais. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-003-076.u4	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary and Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present my report to the rapporteur on the draft law repealing Senate legal measure No. 340/2013 Coll., on real estate acquisition tax, as amended. She's already said a lot here, Madam Secretary. I'm sorry if I repeat myself. Roughly said, the bill deals with several fundamental problems, in particular the abolition of the real estate acquisition tax and the cancellation of the deduction of interest on mortgages on own housing. The Government's bill abolishes the real estate acquisition tax, with retroactive effect. The tax will no longer be paid by anyone who acquired the property in December 2019 at the latest, i.e. the deposit in the cadastral was made in December 2019 or later. Furthermore, the proposal provides for an extension of the time test for income from the sale of immovable property not intended for own housing, back to ten years, as the Minister said. The extension of the time test will be effective for real estate acquired after 1 January 2021. The objective is clear - to limit the scope for speculation in the real estate market. The second amendment concerns the abolition of the possibility to apply interest deductions on newly concluded housing credit agreements as an untaxable part of the tax base. Any buyer who acquires the property at the latest in December 2021 will still be able to apply interest deductions. This means that the acquired property period from December 2019 to December 2021 is that the buyer will not pay the acquisition tax while at the same time being able to apply the deduction of interest on the housing loan from the tax base. The aim of the measure is to encourage the real estate market negatively affected by the coronavirus crisis and to promote the availability of its own housing. In the long run, the aim of the bill is to improve the availability of housing in their own for young people, who will be left with more cash in the moment after buying a house or apartment. Due to the proposed abolition of the real estate acquisition tax, many of the provisions of the Income Tax Act referred to in the proposal lose their importance and effect, thereby becoming obsolete. That is why, as the Minister said, the relevant parts of the law need to be deleted. Given the current situation in which society is dealing with the pandemic caused by the spread of SARS-Covid, we need to deal with the impact of this virus on society, so this bill is also a response to this situation. In particular, the expected benefit of the abolition should be the growth of investment in immovable property due to the reduction of the cost of purchase and the increase in the revenue of the State from other taxes, in particular value added tax and income tax. At the same time, the administrative burden of tax administration will be reduced for taxpayers who will be deprived of the obligation to file a tax return or the need to spend money on professional assistance in the case of the filing of a real estate tax return or, where appropriate, the management of a tax procedure. In addition, the acquirer of the immovable property will not burden any additional obligation, both on a financial basis and on a temporal basis, which is the addition of an expert opinion drawn up by an accredited expert in the cases provided for by legal measures. There will also be savings on the part of the State, where it will no longer be necessary to print tax returns and invest in technical support for the State of real estate acquisition tax, as the Minister has said here. [[12.20 hours]] In order to abolish the real estate acquisition tax, the State budget would lose a yield of 10,6 billion for the remainder of the year. CZK and in subsequent years a yield of 13,8 billion. Crowns. On the other hand, the positive impact of the cancellation of the interest paid on housing loans on public budgets is estimated at about 5 billion. The proposed bill is a pragmatic solution on which everyone makes money. In conclusion, when there is space, I would like to agree to shorten the settlement period between first and second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-003-076.u5	I thank the rapporteur, Mr Rais. I'm opening the debate. The first for the debate is Mr Vojtěch Munzar, Mr Martínek will be prepared. Mr Karel Krejza is registered from the post. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-003-076.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I will begin by thanking you, dear colleagues, for supporting my proposal for a change of programme, because after the speech of the Minister and rapporteur, there is not much left at that time. Fortunately, we voted to continue at this point this afternoon. So I'd like to start with this thank you. However, I would like to remind you of some data. 23 January 2018, 8 March 2019, 8 March 2019, 24 September 2019, 6 November 2019. Four dates in this parliamentary term, when we voted here to abolish the property acquisition tax. Otherwise, in the previous period it was the first time in April 2015. These four days in this parliamentary term are the dates when we have heard the Minister's dissenting opinion on the proposals to abolish the tax here directly from the mouth. These are also days when government MPs fought here in the debate as lions to maintain this tax, but just read the Stenoprotocols from the discussions that have been held here, or read, for example, the government's opinion on the proposal to the House press, 20 - one of the first ones we submitted. That's an interesting reading from today's point of view. And I say this because I am really glad and appreciate that the Minister, the Government, the government parties have changed their minds and have put forward their own motion to abolish this unfair, illogical and absurd tax. From my point of view, it is spicy that the Minister is using the same arguments in defending the proposal - even today we have heard it - actually from the beginning. I am just sorry that one of these votes has not really been successful in the past. [[There's noise and restlessness in the room.]] In some ways, we are still different, and this shows the difference in the approach to housing. And I consider it very important what I have to say to you, so maybe I'd like more attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-003-076.u7	Yes, Mr. Ambassador, you're right. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so we can hear Mr Munzar's speech. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-003-076.u8	Because this proposal really shows the difference in the approach to housing. For the government, this is more or less a technical and tax issue, where I really lack the deeper idea of housing support. On the contrary, we consider ownership housing to be a very important value. We want more and more generations of our citizens to live in their own. We want this generation to stand on its own two feet and provide housing for themselves and their descendants. At the same time, the form of ownership housing is also a form of property security. And that is the civic responsibility that the state should support and create the conditions. At first glance, it may seem that the government has finally applied to such support for the middle class. But it's not quite like that to look at the other side, Madam Secretary. Although the government wants to take a step forward, it is also taking a step backwards, which is actually a step forward. The reverse step is to cancel the tax deductions on mortgage interest. On the one hand, the State is no longer punishing the acquisition of property housing, because for me the real estate tax was a punishment for the acquisition of property housing, but on the other hand, it is abolishing this tax aid for the acquisition of property housing, de facto the only actual aid for housing that citizens have. The impact of this cancellation will be felt by the acquirers of new real estate, which are now exempt from tax, but the aid for mortgage deductions is there. At a time of insufficient housing supply, they need worse tax incentives for real estate procurement. From where I'm sitting, it looks like people are gonna pay to cancel their taxes. In fact, we are talking about the fact that for those who finance the purchase of a mortgage, instead of a one-off large tax burden, their tax burden will break down in time because they can no longer count down their mortgages. I say here, Madam Secretary, it's a little better, I'm not saying it's cheaper for them, but it's a little better because they won't have to have tax savings. But that's the difference in our approach. You decompose the tax burden in time, we would like to make housing purchases cheaper and our citizens less tax-based. The next step backwards is extending the tax test from five to ten years. Madam Secretary says that this will prevent speculation, and that will actually make the market move. That, ladies and gentlemen, is an economically absurd justification, which is completely untrue. Has anyone ever seen a market that's moved through more regulation or higher taxation? That's really absurd. In the extension of the tax test, Madam Secretary, the investors you've been talking about will keep the apartments in their possession even longer. And those who buy apartments now and sell them immediately count their income tax on the price. There will ultimately be no movement of the housing market. So it doesn't affect the ones on whom the increase in the tax test is aimed. But imagine, Madam Secretary, such a situation that someone owns one such apartment, takes it as a security for old age or for future children or something, pays a mortgage for it, owns it for seven years, plans a family for example, but suddenly comes a crisis that we have now experienced. He's not gonna get an income, and he's gonna have to sell the apartment. That's how an increase in a tax test will turn out to be. Not on economically strong entities who have it as their main source of income and really only extends the time of possession of the property. I must say that I am sorry that the good proposal to abolish the property tax that we agree with - of course, because we have come with it several times - is complicated by these additions. It is a pity that it cannot be easy, and in this darkness there are proposals that can devalue this proposal in the eyes of the public. We will come up with suggestions on how to deal with this, which will aim at these two supplements to this proposal, which I was just talking about. Because the aim of this proposal, the principal objective, should be to support the strong middle class that owns its houses. That's what I dream about when I happen to sleep so we can have a company where people own their homes. Not about throwing taxes from one pile to another. But despite my critical words on those other parts of the proposal, I would like to thank you at all for submitting, for the gros of your entire proposal, and that is the abolition of the property acquisition tax. And as I'm saying, we're gonna come up with suggestions in the next reading that aim at those two supplements that we don't like. I would like to thank the citizens at the end of my speech as well, because public opinion, and I think that, in this case in particular, public opinion, has contributed to a change in the government's position. Let's keep our fingers crossed and make this work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-003-076.u9	I thank Mr Munzar. Let me introduce you to an apology. From 12 to 12.30, Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes for medical reasons. Because I will have to interrupt this point immediately and because some Members have volunteered, I will just sum up how we are going to proceed. Mr Jan Hrnčíř and Mr Karel Rais, rapporteur, are registered with a point of fact. Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura is registered with priority rights. Mr Tomáš Martínek and Mr Karel Krejza are entered into the debate in writing. I am now interrupting this item in accordance with the decision of the Chamber of Deputies and we are going to focus firmly on the electoral points. The first point we're going to discuss is
