ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u1	3. Opinion of the Chamber of Deputies on the situation in Belarus I was supposed to be the designer, but I'm sitting here, so that won't be possible. So I propose that we designate the rapporteur Mr Kopřiva, who is next registered. We should probably vote on changing the rapporteur. So I'm the gong that called the MPs to the ballroom. [[15.40 hours]] I will repeat once again what we will be voting on. We will vote on the amendment of the appellant, respectively. rapporteur on this point to Mr Kopřiva. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 23 130 Members and Members are registered, for 119, against no one. The motion was accepted. And I therefore ask that the appellant of this point, respectively, take the floor. Mr Kopřiva, who, at the same time, became rapporteur. And then we'll open the debate. And please be quiet in the hall. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief, because I also assume a broad consensus on this subject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u3	Ambassador, I will interrupt you and ask your colleagues once again for peace, or those who do not wish to discuss the situation in Belarus, which was not on today's agenda, which I understand, to do so, to bring their debates into the foyer. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u4	Thank you. As you know, elections were held in Belarus more than a week ago, where the authoritarian regime of Alexandr Lukašenko has been in fact since the mid-1990s. These last elections have sparked massive protests, even for several days now the state television of Belarus, which was subject to the regime, reports on the riots. There are hundreds of thousands of people on the streets not only in Minsk, but also dozens of other cities and municipalities. The vast majority of the largest businesses were involved in a massive strike, according to turnovers. In fact, all categories of citizens went out to the streets to express their disagreement with the course of those elections which, according to the information available, were not free both during the campaign and during the vote itself and, of course, the counting of votes. Consequently, the main challenger Alexandr Lukašenko, Mrs Tichonovská, apparently under threat, was forced to record a message, and then actually fled into exile, where she now organizes the Belarusian opposition. What we should be interested in. So I would like to begin by thanking the Czech Government's initiative, when at the beginning the Minister of Foreign Affairs summoned the Belarusian Ambassador because of President Lukašenko statements that these demonstrations are controlled and paid, among other things, from the Czech Republic. At the same time, we read statements such as: from the Prime Minister on the ilregularity of the elections and on the fact that the European Union should take a clear position on this and, for example, some sanctions, which has already happened a few days ago at the EU foreign ministers' meeting, actually at the EU Council level, so the ministers have agreed to draw up lists of targeted sanctions so that the sanctions do not affect all the citizens of Belarus, but really only the people associated with the regime. This means the people who participated in the violent repression of protests and the people who participated in the forgery of the elections, where the list of people on whom these sanctions will be imposed is now being put together at European level. And it's today, or there's already been a video conferencing summit of the heads of state -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u5	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you again and ask my colleagues in the O.R. whether they're from your club or other clubs to move their discussion somewhere else. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u6	So, at today's European Council summit, an extraordinary one, Angela Merkelová's latest information has agreed that all EU countries have agreed not to accept the results of these elections, and so they have confirmed what the foreign ministers have agreed. We, in connection with this with our colleagues, actually STAN, TOP-09 and from the people's people, and in cooperation with our ANO colleagues, have put together some resolutions. On some points we agree, on some points we don't. I would briefly present this resolution and then read it in a detailed debate. We want the Chamber of Deputies to condemn violence, police interference, the release of political prisoners, and the independent investigation of the violence on the part of the Lukašenkův regime. At the same time, we want to express our solidarity with the families killed, because according to today's information, there are at least three victims on the part of the repressive forces, as well as the hundreds injured and thousands detained. And to this day, there are dozens of people missing, and they do not know where the Lukašenkův regime is holding them. Furthermore, we want to state, in line with today's European Council statement, and therefore in line with Prime Minister Babiš's position, that we do not recognise the outcome of the elections that have been held and that we consider their repetition as the best solution. This is what the international community has said. And, of course, those elections should be supervised by international observers who have not been admitted last time. We also note that the Czech Republic has no legal regulation that would allow such targeted sanctions to be imposed. We want to appreciate the initiative of the Government of the Czech Republic that it initiated the negotiations of foreign ministers and the creation of the penalty list. Furthermore, we appeal to the Government to clarify the suspicion that the repressive forces were allegedly used against peaceful protesters by flash grenades that may originate in the Czech Republic, and this material is subject to the 2011 EU embargo, so it is illegal to export these weapons there. Furthermore, we have a call for the Czech Government to continue to mediate dialogues between the Belarusian regime and the opposition, because this is already happening and we want to appreciate it. I thank you for your attention at the moment, and I would read this resolution completely in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u7	Thank you. So I am opening up a general debate in which I have several applications. First with priority rights, Vice-President Okamura, and then we'd be dealing with factual remarks. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, we have an item on the agenda regarding the situation in Belarus. Prime Minister Babiš in quotation marks by chance after meeting with the US Secretary of State, Mike Pompee, asks for new elections in Belarus, as well as EU leaders, because they do not like that the author Lukašenko won the election. For the SPD movement, I say that, in the current situation, Belarus must, first and foremost, put an end to violence, both sides. The solution to the situation must come from the internal Belarusian dialogue. This is the only stable solution for the future. If the opposition objects to the results of the elections, the call for recounting votes should be made in particular. The requirements for the transfer of power or the repetition of elections must be supported by facts and not merely by opposition to the government of President Lukašenko authoritarian. In this context, the challenges of Prime Minister Babiš to the Velvet Revolution in Belarus are ill-considered. There were hundreds of thousands of people protesting his government at Letná, and yet the SPD clearly stood up for the outcome of the elections in the Czech Republic. And I say that Prime Minister Babiš will receive no gratitude for the current call to Majdan in Belarus, on the contrary, he will see himself from the so-called sunmen of other attempts at Majdan right on him. [[15.50 hours]] Let us take a closer look at the situation in Belarus. Lukašenko has not allowed the scenario repeated in many Eastern European countries to be completed. After the collapse of the USSR, Belarus, like Ukraine and then Russia, took on the so-called Western economic-political model and signed the so-called Washington Consensus, which meant a third drop in industrial production for Belarus, huge inflation and a reduction in the standard of living of citizens in such a way that 60 percent of them lived below the minimum of living. The standard post-Soviet privatization of the 1990s, i.e. robbing and selling of Belarusian state property, began. Lukašenko's privatisation stopped, left 70 percent of its businesses under state control and stabilized the economy in such a way that it did best from all former post-Soviet countries in a few years. It was as clear as it was now with Belarus, for example, Ukraine, Syria, and Libya. Each time it was a people longing for freedom and the Western concept of democracy, which "we must support" because it is versus an ugly dictator. And the result was always the same. A relatively stable state becomes broken down, where they make the most lucrative business of Western corporations, mostly with oil or natural gas, and ordinary people are left with just rip-off unstable countries. And we, in a more advanced Europe, will then get hit by a wave of migration, which will also negatively affect our citizens. In recent years, it's still the same scenario. If the European Union and Prime Minister Babiš want to defend citizens' rights to free elections and to demonstrate peacefully - which, of course, the SPD is fighting and promoting free elections and the right to demonstrate peacefully - it would be nice if the European Union, European Union leaders, including Prime Minister Babiš, focused their attention, for example, in Catalonia, where the Spanish Government is putting people in prison who have organised a referendum on self-determination of the country, with sentences of over ten years in prison, where Spanish police are beating people and shooting them with rubber projectiles for wanting to vote on freedom of opinion and country. Only last October during the Catalan protests were 600 injured and four of them lost an eye after police shooting with rubber bullets. Why did the European Union and Prime Minister Babiš not also focus attention on France, where President Macron brutally suppressed demonstrations of disgruntled citizens from the Yellow Vest Movement? Our SPD movement rejects any violence, whether it's in the east or in the west. How the European Union and Prime Minister Babiš measure selectively double standards is really striking. When it suits them, violence and brutality tolerate and support. But it's not easy. For the SPD movement, I say we should measure all the same fair subway because human life has the same value in France, Spain and Belarus. So, if Prime Minister Babiš is playing the defender of democracy, why doesn't he ask for elections in Arab allies, where he won't allow dictatorial family clans or elections for his government? What distinguishes relatively civilized Belarus from such Saudi Arabia, where it is being murdered and tortured and where human rights do not apply and the vote on the head of state is not even out of the question? Yes, I'll tell you what separates Saudi Arabia from Belarus. It is money and business that one country does with the West - with the West, with the US, with the European Union - and the other does not. I understand that when the US government or the one in Brussels has such a vision of the world, but why the Czech Prime Minister Babiš has humiliated himself to such perverse optics is indeed a mystery. I mean, being a footman is no longer a priority. Information was made that the Belarusian Secret Service intercepted phone calls from the Czech Republic to organize protests on the streets of Belarus following Alexandr Lukašenko election. Czech Minister Petříček refused. According to the sources of the Belarusian press agency Belta was to be employees of the state media and employees of the Czech international non-profit organization without giving specific names or names. I guess everyone's wondering which medium and nonprofit should be involved. And so I would like to ask Minister Petříček here publicly - who is not here for a mysterious reason, although it is an essential foreign policy topic of today. So I'd like to ask Mr. Petříček, at least at a distance, to explain one thing to us. The political non-profit called Civic Belarus received CZK 5.529 million in 2019. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic sent them CZK 4.485 million of this money; CZK 4.5 million from public money was sent to this political non-profit organization called Civic Belarus Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic. So I ask Minister Petříček and the members of the government - even if there is nothing in the benches, someone could answer that, or whether Minister Petříček will answer that in writing. However, it would need to be done as quickly as possible, not within 30 days, as is the case here according to the rules of interpellation. And so, Minister, I ask and ask you here to explain what the money was specifically intended for, the 4.5 million out of public money to this non-profit organization of Civic Belarus. Since it is suspected that this money of Czech taxpayers has been used to trigger actions against President Belarus, Lukašenk. I don't stand up for the Belarusian regime at all, I say he's an authoritarian. But I'm asking what the $4.5 million of public money was used for and sent to this nonprofit organization, from the State Department's money. Because like I said, there's a suspicion. And I would like to ask Prime Minister Andrej Babiš publicly to instruct the Security Information Service, the BIS, to investigate whether there are also people and organizations from the Czech Republic who are paying from Czech taxpayers' money behind protest organizations in Belarus. To participate in public money to disrupt any foreign country without the knowledge of the House or its institutions, that would indeed be an international scandal, no matter what we think. And now let's take a closer look at the essence of what's going on in Belarus. Although the situation in Belarus is at the centre of the attention of the world's media, the situation is still very unclear and this is also needed because they are blocking the Internet there. It is also, of course, partly because foreign observers were not present at the elections, which makes the whole situation more difficult and, of course, its assessment. I think it is necessary to distinguish two views, geopolitical and internal political. This information certainly shows from history - when we look at the developments in Belarus and the negotiations over the past years - that it is certainly far from the truth that Lukašenkův regime is internationally isolated and that the Belarusian President is Putinův's man. These two leaders seem to have very complicated personal relationships, and Alexandr Lukašenko himself, by the way, got into this situation by playing both sides and miscalculating himself. But I'm going to take that further apart. He played both on the US side, the European Union side, and Russia side. Belarus has signed a closer cooperation agreement with Russia on economic and defence since 1997 and is dependent on Moscow for oil supplies with lower prices. President Putin has pushed President Lukašenko from taking power into closer integration, which he Lukašenko resisted, or has submitted very slowly and reluctantly. But the Ukrainian Majdan gave him new opportunities. Lukašenkův role in the mediation of the Minsk agreements improved his international position, and the Belarusian president began to negotiate more with the West and Minsk as a treadmill - not that President Lukašenko was isolated, on the contrary, where Western politicians began to ride on the treadmill. The leaders of France and Germany arrived there, the representatives of the European Commission welcomed even several times a year. And two years ago, during a visit to the European Commissioner for Enlargement - he visited Belarus - Johannes Hahn Lukašenko declared that Belarus was ready to get closer to the European Union and expressed an interest in membership of the Eastern Partnership. But, as a condition, Lukašenko asked that relations between the European Union and Belarus be based on an economic basis. In doing so, he promised that then the day would be on the agenda for him and the reform of the Belarusian political system. At the same time, Lukašenko postponed the signing of new integration agreements with Russia and so far refused to build a Russian military base in Belarus. The sharp observers had already said that Lukašenko was bluffing and that these words were intended primarily for Putin. However, the West proceeded to this game and, for some time, the criticism of the Belarusian regime ceased. Even the West commended Lukašenko for reducing pressure on the Belarusian opposition, I quote. [[16.00 hours]] But a much more significant change has begun to evolve towards the United States of America. In recent years, US military officials and senior U.S. civil servants have visited Belarus as a treadmill. During a visit to US National Security Advisor John Bolton in Minsk at the end of August last year, Belarusian President Alexandr Lukašenko proposed to open, quote, a new chapter in relations with the US. Bolton - Why am I saying all this? Because the regime is described here in some way, but they collaborated with Lukašenk and dealt with him, and that's what I'm going to get to, the cooperation, the Western power, quite commonly and as on the running belt. And it is necessary to realize what is the result of these steps and why the SPD has an opinion on what it has, i.e. I'm a little more restrained. During his visit, Bolton appreciated the opportunity to talk about regional security in the Belarus region. Lukašenko was in control of him by saying that he considered this encounter to be historic. Three weeks later, US Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs for Political Affairs David Hale in Minsk solemnly announced that the US and Belarus decided to return to their embassy after eleven years of ambassadorship. So there was a normalization of relationships. The situation thus developed very well for Lukašenko. At the beginning of February this year, Minsk's head of American diplomacy, Mike Pompeo, who, by the way, visited, as we know, the Czech Republic last week, and said that the United States wished to normalize relations with Belarus and that they did not want to tear it away from Russia, and skillfully offered Lukašenk cheaper oil, with the US being willing and able to fully expose Belarus's oil and gas consumption. Lukašenko replied to Pompe that the cold season was over. And it is no coincidence, because this mutual meeting and this mutual declaration between the US and Belarus came when Moscow increased its pressure on Minsk, with Belarus adopting closer Belarusian integration with Russia, if it wants to continue to receive energy resources at Russian domestic prices. Why do I say that? Because this is where some chimera is made, like Lukašenko Putinův's man. It's far from that simple. It's more complicated and complicated, the situation, and I'm still talking about the geopolitical view. And I have to say, and further, and by the way, Belarus has robbed and built on oil supplies both with Azerbaijan and Saudi Arabia. However, this was not the only ace up Alexandr Lukašenko sleeve. One important aspect that is not being talked about is the closer link of the Belarusian regime to China. Lukašenko has taken advantage of the situation and military-political instability in Ukraine has forced Čína to look for, I would say, a more predictable and stable partner in the region. So China targeted Belarus. And Lukašenko cooperated. And China's influence in Belarus has gone so far as to make Číňan, armored transporters and to multiply the inscriptions in Chinese. For China, Belarus's participation in the economic project is of strategic importance. New silk trails, while helping the Belarusian army with arms. By the way, information that was not mentioned here that at the end of last year, Belarus received a $500 million loan from China to refinance its debt to Russia. Again, I point out that those relations with Putin are not at all the ones that are basically misinterpreted here in the media. Although Lukašenko has tried and tried to skew among the interests of the powers, so the US, the European Union, China, of course, cooperation with China is not entirely risk-free and has not been risk-free, because China, as we know, is applying its power very hard, and we can see this from Zimbabwe, where, in essence, Mugabe's government has fallen as a result of the fact that the regime in Zimbabwe has tried to deceive Beijing. Lukašenkův interest in the diversification or multipolarity of Belarus's foreign orientation is logical at first sight. So far, the President of Belarus has read the geopolitical situation very well and talks about his country, and quite rightly that it is in the boiler, and it is important, and I quote that Belarus should not be cooked in that boiler. On the contrary, he has been resisting Russian pressure all along against the creation of a pattern of reference to his own history, to Belarusian history, to his own history, culture, language, but, of course, let's face it, first of all, Lukašenk was about maintaining his own power. He dreams about how it is also evident from various records that he wants to create a system called. hereditary democracy, i.e. which is applied in some countries of Central Asia, and he seems to want his son to win the subsequent election after Lukašenko left. We have no doubt that this is an authoritarian regime, but, gradually, Lukašenko is becoming a victim of its own power. But here it has just been miscounted, and that is today's problem, which is essentially happening here in Belarus, because in today's world, it is hard for a country like Belarus to remain neutral. It must be in the region where Ukraine is, next to Russia and the immediate neighbourhood of the European Union, and it cannot forever cross between powers. So Lukašenko overestimated his fragile relations with Western countries, and just days after the current wave of protest, he understood that Russia was his only guarantee at the moment. Of course, the price of this humble return under a Russian bear can be very high. After all, this suggests the Kreml's first reaction. Because once again, I'd like to give myself a look at the interpretation of that phone call with Putin, because when we took a closer look backstage, Putin seems to have given it to Lukašenk in the first place to eat it properly. Four days after the election, he did not respond - for four whole days - to Lukašenko phone calls. And on Thursday, the Kreml laconically announced that the encounter with Belarusian leader Alexandr Lukašenk is not actually on the schedule of President Vladimir Putin. The day before that, Putin was on the phone about the situation in Belarus with French President Macron. Our superficial media, however, reported unnecessarily that Russia did not want to burn its fingers for the dictator Lukašenk, but apparently it was just a tactic and a mutual contact after Putin choked Lukašenko, after all it came. Here it seems that the Saturday call from Alexandr Lukašenko to Vladimir Putin was a turning point in the development of the Belarusian crisis. Moscow has made an effort to stress, in its official statement, that a telephone call was made on the initiative of the Belarusian party. And then the Kreml actually said that all the problems that arose would soon be solved. But Lukašenko interpreted these words differently, interpreting them in his own way that Putin promised to help him ensure the safety of his country. But Moscow did not just comment on these words, nor did it confirm them. So now it's basically waiting for Putin to react. And I must say that, of course, of all the post-Soviet republics, when I return from relations with America, China and the European Union to Russia, Belarus, of course, has the narrowest relations with Russia. It is part of not only the Moscow-controlled Eurasian Economic Union, but also the Organisation of the Collective Security Treaty, which is currently the Secretary-General of the former Head of Lukashenko's Security Council, Major General Stanislav Zas. And, of course, Putin imagines, or apparently, it is his wish for Belarus to unite with Russia. Otherwise, it is also a logical requirement, because after the break-up of the Soviet Union, Russia essentially lost the buffer zones of those countries to the west and south, the former post-Soviet republics that were around Russia. [[16.10 hours]] Otherwise in Moscow, of course, they understand very well what is going on here. colorful revolutions. Because from their point of view, the aim of this looping around Russia and these various preparatory actions, in which the Russian Federation is becoming increasingly vulnerable, is, of course, from a Russian perspective, the aim of Russia itself. And from Russia's point of view, if the West had reached Belarus, Smolensk, who once lay deep within the interior of the Soviet Union, would have become essentially a border city. On the other hand, if Russia had taken control of Belarus, for example through Lukašenk, multiple rejected Russian military bases around Brest, Moscow would have been able to bring Poland closer to the western border. But America's troops are already at the eastern border of Poland, and the events of the last few days will undoubtedly narrow the maneuvering space for Lukašenk, who has been partially resisting Putinův's pressure so far, and the Belarusian President has stressed more times in recent years that NATO has not seen as a threat. Of course, it was part of his propaganda rapprochement with the West, but this statement also has a rational core, and that, unlike Ukraine, Američan do not want to integrate Belarus into the North Atlantic Alliance, but rather care about its neutrality. On the contrary, for Russia, military presence in Belarus is a high priority, and they have never had a better opportunity than today when the United States is employed by the presidential elections, the European Union is plagued by the Coronavirus and Lukašenko is on its knees. However, let us now go to the internal political situation and the commentary, which means the regime of Alexandr Lukašenko himself. There's no point in arguing that the regime, that Lukašenko is an authoritarian. Rather, I find the motivation of those who want to overthrow him problematic because it is far from just freedom and democracy. When we look at the US National Endowment for Democracy Foundation funded by the US Congress, it sent almost $2 million to the Belarusian opposition last year. And it's just a fraction of the money that Western states send there because other organizations are active there. By the way, this American foundation is handing out money in about 90 countries around the world, and it was generous in neighboring Slovakia, by the way, where it provided political think tanks with a subsidy of almost one million euros. It is also important to talk about the fact that the system of so-called color revolutions, that is, the export of that American democracy, did not essentially bring stability to those countries. In Georgia, the so-called pink revolution knocked down Eduard Ševarnadze and now traditionally accused him, or accused him, as it has traditionally been, of forging the election results and putting Michail Saakašvili in his place, who, however, shortly after the end of his mandate, was accused of abuse of authority, so he preferred to flee to the US and from there to Ukraine, and was expelled from there and deported to Poland. So basically, I see a similar situation in Ukraine, where the Orange Revolution failed first, because people chose after the president or after the first president Juščenek again someone the West didn't want, and it was Viktor Janukovyč. So then Majdan came and we see the result of Maidan to this day. Ukraine is a state of decay that would have long gone bankrupt if it had not been for the regular investments of the International Monetary Fund, and we all see the migration wave from Ukraine here. And who has ever been in Ukraine, I was there two years ago, so in some places and in larger cities you really feel like somewhere - I imagine that's what it looked like after World War II, just basically a really devastated country. So other than that, I wanted to say that there's a lot of comparison between Ukraine and Belarus. But the situation in Belarus is diametrically different from Ukraine, because there is no dysfunctional state in Belarus, and the population in its geopolitical orientation is not so divided. It's not divided! It's not divided! In essence, the European Union and the United States have nothing to offer Belarus, far from what they have offered in Ukraine. Therefore, the opposition candidates before the elections that took place this year recently, virtually none of them questioned relations with Russia. And something like pro-Union orientation wasn't even a major election theme. On the contrary, Alexandr, Lukašenko, played quite surprisingly with the Russian card, and now he had to turn to Russia in a very humiliating manner. So today the fact is that basically Lukašenko can really hold on to power with the help of Russia and Putin. And that suggests that his days are essentially numbered, because it's the game on all sides that's gradually catching up with him. So it seems from this point of view - otherwise I would still like to return, I am based on various comments and on various information that we have studied, that seems to be unfounded and the cries of Russian activists, that Putin is definitely planning a military invasion, because at the moment the question is why would he actually do it, because the Belarusian economy is already dependent on Russian today, and the opposition is not in some way fundamentally tuned with the Russians, as was the case with Ukraine. And among the decisive forces are not even fascists like in Ukraine. And it is also true that Russia does not usually save failing regimes. This assumption can also be supported by examples from Armenia or Kyrgyzstan, where dissatisfaction with the regime has also led to upheavals and rebellion, but Moscow has accepted this essentially calmly. But it's true that Putin needs Belarus. However, I believe he does not need Lukašenko. What else can I say? There is certainly no doubt that Lukašenkův regime is authoritarian, I have already said that. So it was a kind of probe into that view, into the history that actually precedes the problems that are in Belarus today. In our opinion, it is not nearly as black and white as it is quite unilaterally presented here by some media, and I wanted to explain a little bit of this view to you here, so that we can look a little bit better at it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u9	Thank you. Several technical announcements. Mrs Krutáková apologises for the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for family reasons from 15.45 to the end of the day. Mr Skopeček votes with replacement card number 21. And next, Mr Holík is registered with a factual remark, if he is still interested. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I've had quite a lot on my mind, but it's very difficult to perform after Tomio Okamur, because he said most - or much more than I wanted to say. I'll just come up with a question. Please, which one of you has been to Belarus recently, sign in. Because we're dealing with a sovereign state here, and we know all about it. All we know about him is that he exists somewhere, and all we know about him is what the mass media tell us. I have quite a lot of friends in Belarus and those people were happy there, living standards were at least twice as high as in Ukraine, there were double salaries, everywhere was clean. But someone seemed to mind. Yes, there is no way I can agree with the violent procedures of certain movements, but I also have a number of films where protesters throw Molotovův's cocktails at the police. So she's probably on both sides of the violence. But, as my colleague Okamura has already said here, we are pausing ourselves over the actions of the Belarusian police, but we are completely forgetting the attacks against the orange vests, against the movement in Catalonia. So all I have to say, my friends, Belarus is a sovereign state. Let them solve their own future, because every export of our democracy always ends badly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u11	Thank you. Mr Foldyna then applied for the job, but he signed up for the debate in the meantime. So let's leave it alone. And now it's time for Vice-President Filip with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to say a few words on this point, which is the basis for the position of the Chamber of Deputies on the situation in Belarus after the presidential elections, as the official title of this point is. Firstly, I believe that it is necessary for us, as constitutional officials of a sovereign state, to take account of the fact that international law applies, that it is a matter for every nation, how it will organise its political regime and how it will use its natural resources. I consider this essential and I would not like to touch on the internal affairs of Belarus. I'm not allowed to do that, and I don't want to do that. I think it was already there when we included this point in the morning to make the decision of the people of Belarus, its citizens, who will certainly choose some way of their further development. The situation is not easy, because Belarus has its own history very moving and only in World War II did there actually fall every third citizen of this state. The modern history of independent Belarus since 8 December 1991 has four basic points. And that Belarus is a member of the Union State of the Russian Federation and Belarus is, secondly, a historically strategic partner of the Russian Federation in the field of military, political and economic. And what is the third important point that Belarus is located on the geopolitical battlefield of the United States of America and Europe against the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China. It is based on two active projects. And this one here has been remembered, and I think it's crucial for us to make further decisions about how we're supposed to do it. Firstly, Belarus is one of the largest investments of the People's Republic of China in the production of amino acids and the largest technology park. I personally visited the technology park and the Great Stone is indeed, I would say, a sensation for those who want to see the European Silicon Valley. Finally, Minister of Foreign Affairs Mike Pompeo visited this technological park. I could quote from his twitter, I won't do that. But I have to say, it's important that he doesn't say everything on his Twitter that was probably the reason for the recent visit of Belarus and the Great Stone by Minister Pompe. It is not the person of President Lukašenko, but it is essentially the way he develops and whether it is possible through Belarus to alleviate the consequences of the trade and technological war between the United States of America and the People's Republic of China, when it is clear that through Belarus it is possible, I would say, also to trigger tensions between the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China. I would like to remind you of one thing which, in my opinion, is very important. Former director of Israeli intelligence Jaakov Kedmi spoke of the United States of America in this situation in such a way that the current situation, which we perceived, for example, through the demonstrations in the United States of America following the death of that black activist, is indeed in a situation where any movement that is economically disadvantageous to them threatens to lose the global dominance of the United States of America. And they're doing everything they can to keep the dominance. I say this so that we can really spare in our comments if we want to maintain relations with our basically neighbour Belarus, which is as big and as popular as the Czech Republic, or is somewhat larger. But in the end, he is our natural partner with whom we can trade and therefore try to find a relationship that would allow us to act as a sovereign state in the future, not as someone who defends foreign interests in a territory other than the Czech Republic. The point is that in Belarus, when it comes to the Great Stone, the investment that is there puts into the state budget of Belarus, I was very interested in it, actually more than the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Agriculture put into the whole state budget. There are 818 foreign investors in that center and it really is, I'd say, an external territory where special rules apply. There's tax breaks and all that. Yet it is a very strong income for the state budget of Belarus. And I think it was a decision that showed that the development in Belarus could also, I would say, be inspiring to others. I don't want to go around the bush, as one wrote, I would say, from the decisive analysts of the Czech Republic Jan Campbell, because the dance around Belarus will still have many other forms. I mean, if we decided to create some kind of sanctions, we would, of course, get into the same traps that are here, I would say, permanent problems for the EU, but also for us as the Czech Republic outside, of course, the structures of the EU or NATO. And these are unresolved relationships such as Greece and Turkey, Northern Cyprus, or the dispute between Madrid and Barcelona within the EU, you finally know that they have arrested the constitutional actors of that part, but also our dispute, which we are having as the Visegrad Group with Brussels, or those unfinished EU-debting processes that we have adopted here in the framework of the pandemic measures. It's complicated. I'd hate for us to do something here called a sacral sacrifice. That means someone will be picked up like the one who was the victim of the so-called revolution. If I would allow - and I have a question rather than a claim, how is it possible that when our group, the OSCE permanent delegation or the Council of Europe are running, to all elections within the Council of Europe to those states, how is it possible that this time there was no request, as we refused to control elections there as such organisations. If it was assumed from the beginning that the outcome of these elections would be questioned. What was that step from these two organizations? And we should think about it, if there's no signal, when the time had come and it had to be decided that it would be different. With the result of 80 percent to 10 percent, I think that even if there were any mistakes, that the easiest thing was to recalculate the election results, but that, as the head of the current opposition says, wasn't their demand. In doing so, it would be quite logical and legitimate. [[16.30 hours]] I assume that Belarus will not become a frozen conflict, because as far as strategic connections are concerned, I think that the decisions that will be made by the Russian Federation, or by Europe, will be decisions that will mean that this state of great strategic importance in Europe will continue to be a sovereign prosperous state. I think it is not our right to say anything to Putin or Lukašenk or others, but to adopt our position, where we say yes, we have diplomatic relations with Belarus, we expect that their internal conflict will be resolved by the citizens of Belarus and that it will be resolved for the benefit of its citizens. When I first visited Belarus, we were in a delegation with former Vice-President Jan Kasal of the KDU-ČSL at the time of the Czech Presidency, it was basically our Presidency's task to discuss the Eastern Partnership, so we came to a clear understanding as part of the negotiations with the opposition that Jan Kasal directed: the most organized opposition to President Lukašenk was the Communist Party of Belarus, today called the Left - The Righteous World, is part of the Party of the European Left. And I know her chairman Kaljakin personally, for years I've been working with him, and I don't blame him for renaming his party and having a different view of the world than I do or anyone else. And the second opposition was the union. When I look at the current situation, I don't think it's moved anywhere else, because it really stayed in Belarus, I would say, the strongest subject to Lukašenk opposition to the further privatisation of those functional state-owned enterprises. I have to say this quite frankly. When I was there last year, we talked about it, and they said it wasn't possible for it to be part of some kind of dealing with the national economy, and they didn't want it to be bought by Russian oligarchs or anyone from Europe. The fact is that we make little use of our good relations with Belarus, because the strongest economic partner besides the Russian Federation, the strongest partner from the European Union is Holland and the Federal Republic of Germany, although they do not, of course, forget the role of Germany in World War II in Belarus. And the high level of education, the opposition of the majority of the population to privatise and liberalise the economy is really, I would say, a political issue. So if we blame Bělorusko, then perhaps we should blame them for not better organising the relations in the context of the negotiations with the Russian Federation or other States of the Community of Independent States. I would like to say so much that for me the only conceivable resolution of the Chamber of Deputies is that the situation in Belarus should be dealt with in favour of the citizens of Belarus, in favour of cooperation between the Czech Republic and Belarus within the Council of Europe, and as a third, that the excesses which were committed by the security forces or those who provoked those situations should be dealt with in accordance with the law and in accordance with those rights and obligations which Belarus has committed itself to within the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u13	Also thank you and I have other applications with priority rights. First Prime Minister Farský, then Minister Zaorálek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me give you a statement for the Mayors and Independents' Club. We are attached to this motion for a resolution, which we have prepared in cooperation with the Pirates, the People's Party and the representatives of the TOP 09. It is a resolution which, I dare say, follows up on the Prime Minister's statement so far, which, we think, was strong, accurate and appropriate. I would also like to say quite frankly that we consider the Prime Minister's approach to the situation in Belarus to be the right way. We think that we should not stay with the statements that were made out of his mouth and that we should apply to solidarity and support for Belarus. Why us and why in the Czech Parliament? I think we're intrigued by our historical experience. In 1968 people saw a ray of freedom in the Czech Republic, censorship was abolished, people had a chance to take a breath, and when the breath could move into the Czech Republic's return to democratic states, Czechoslovakia at the time, tanks came here from the Soviet Union. In 1989, the second emergency came, and fortunately, it has already succeeded. But it also affected that the Soviet Union was in total disintegration at the time, and Gorbačov said in advance that they were here to sort it out as they wanted, the local communists. It went well for the Czech Republic, it went well for the Czech nation. For 30 years we have been living in a free country where democratic elections take place and where their outcome can also be respected because it is based on the quality work of all committees. Unfortunately, this did not happen in Belarus. Belarus and its government guarantees were those who did not allow international organisations into the country to oversee the regularity of the elections, and that, of course, was the first warning signal to see how such elections could happen if they did not want to let anyone in. They were caught in the fact that they were not adopted by the nation. What we stand for here at the moment is the expression of support for Belarus and its citizens and the support for real free democratic elections in the country under the supervision of international institutions so that results cannot be falsified. As it happens in the civilized countries of the world. And why is this support also on our part, and are we joining it? Because Belarus is a bit unlucky to stand as a state on the buffer zone that Russia creates between its country and democratic countries, democratic states. Moldova had that experience in 1991, when the Soviet Union and its politicians in a part of the territory called Transnistria occupied a piece of state, which still poses a big problem for Moldova today. [[16.40 hours]] Then we were very lucky because Russia, which was in huge trouble, and their leaders, Russia's leaders, were not very able to intervene abroad, so we managed to get into the European Union and NATO. The window closed, as it recognized Georgia in 2008, when it tried to enter NATO, South Ossetia, Abkhazia, parts of the territory still occupied by the Russian Federation. Ukraine, too, recognized what it meant to have the Russian Federation as a neighbour in 2014 in a situation where it tried to bind itself to the European Union. I would hate for Belarus to know this in 2020 and for it to be another state in the buffer zone, which will be artificially held in a very difficult economic, security situation, in a situation where it is difficult to commit itself to any transnational organisation, international, because it will be held as some kind of hostage through a part of their territory or their politicians. So far, from this point of view, in quotes, the Bělorus were safe, because Lukašenko simply played both sides and did what Putin needed from him. If this changes now, the risk to Belarus is much greater. I think the least we can do is to adopt these resolutions, which, on the one hand, appreciate the way the Prime Minister of this country has acted so far, and at the same time he stands positive for Belarus to be able to determine its future in free elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u15	Thank you, too, and now, as I said before, with priority rights, Minister Zaorálek... Excuse me, Mr Benešík, Mr Benešík, is also registered here with a factual remark, then the Minister. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, a resolution has been loaded here, which is the intersection of several parliamentary clubs. I would like to say that for KDU-ČSL, because we have participated in a rather fundamental way in its formulation, we want to add point 2 and 4, namely point 2 on this passage: expresses solidarity with the families killed, calls for the immediate termination of repression and unacceptable practice of torture held, as well as examination of the fates of missing persons. And in point 4 of the supplement: calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to prepare an urgent bill that will allow national individual sanctions to be imposed against persons responsible for serious violations of human rights. I have already spoken to the appellant about this, so I assume that this proposal, or these proposals, will adopt these additions. Then very briefly on what was said here. Belarus is a state in the so-called The Eastern Partnership, which is the European Union's project from the very beginning, so I did not fully understand that someone was from the European Union in Belarus last or last year and Lukašenko expressed an interest in the Eastern Partnership. Lukašenko has joined the Eastern Partnership, so if Mr Lukašenko does not know where his country belongs, it is very strange. And as for the comparison with Catalonia, I get dirty e-mails and threats about where I was holed up, for example, in quotes holed up when there was violence in Catalonia. Easy for everyone to Google that I wasn't holed up, that I clearly condemned this violence. But this is where the parallel ends because Catalonia is not Belarus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u17	Thank you. I would just like to point out that the amendments need to be read in a detailed debate, but you will figure that out, I presume, with the rapporteur. And now the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u18	Thank you. Hello, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. So I would respond to this debate here for our party. I have registered here a statement from one of the performers who said that we should adopt a resolution, or the House should adopt an opinion that will be in the spirit of promoting cooperation between the Czech Republic and Belarus in the future. I would like to say here that there has actually been quite a broad consensus in this House for a number of years that we are interested in working with Belarus. It was about cooperation, as he said here, that was said with the Eastern Partnership country. I even think there was quite an agreement between the coalition and the opposition. I remember that Karel Schwarzenberg and I were even working together on this and that I actually had a number of recommendations from him for negotiations in Minsk, that we were both actually dealing with opposition representatives. And I would even like to remind you from the past that when Belarus released political prisoners, the cooperation even went so far as to visit Belarus, I visited Minsk. I met there at the time, and I met with the Minister of Foreign Makej Makej quite often at that time, but there I met with President Lukašenk as well. I remember that at that meeting where I appreciated the release of political prisoners, President Lukašenko told me and claimed that Belarus was the last of those Eastern Partnership countries and those of the former Russian, Soviet states in which there were no Soviet troops. He pointed out to me how it looks in Georgia, how it looks in Moldova, how it looks in Ukraine at the time, and that Belarus is actually the last of the wreaths of countries where Russia's troops are not. And he claimed that what he was playing for and what he had to face, that Putin simply intended to create a situation and create conditions for Russian troops in Belarus. In fact, he wanted to cooperate with Europe in order to retain a certain independent position in the small Belarus. At least that's how he built it. Of course, I don't know what his conversations with Putin looked like. However, at that time we realized that the ties of Belarus are such to Russia that it is not easy to promote Europe's orientation, because Russia is a huge percentage dependent on the supply of minerals, gas from Russia. [[Belarus]] So it was obvious that the change in orientation had to be done in the long run and it wouldn't be easy. I was then, I remember, Mr President, saying that we appreciate the positive development towards political prisoners or the release of political prisoners, and I told him that what is most important now is democratic elections for us. It is simply to guarantee that the next elections, presidential, parliamentary, will actually be carried out in a regular manner under certain international supervision, and that Belarus will simply move in this sense to allow people to really democratically vote for their representatives. And that was one of the essential things. And it was not just my position, it was the official position of the European Union at the time. We made a recommendation for the elections, and we said, that's what the next step is, that's what we expect from Belarus. And now to the account of what I'm reacting to here, the claim that the cooperation must be the main thing for us. Yes, it is so that in this House we have a consensus on this cooperation, that it is important and that it is beneficial. But I believe that the situation has fundamentally changed in some way, and I am now acting here to stand up for the government's position. Because see what's happening in Belarus today. Regardless of the complicated, say, geopolitical and other considerations, it is evident that the large, fundamental majority of the population in Belarus is tired of Lukašenk. It's just a fact that you can see recently from a series of speeches. It is evident that instead of democratizing the electoral process or increasing its regularity, we have witnessed the very opposite and that President Lukašenko has very brutally intervened against the opposition, he has actually imprisoned family members and others. I think that is completely contrary to everything we've been dealing with in the past in those Belorussian-Czech relationships that we've talked about and what we've been pushing for. It just seems to me that here on the Belarusian side, Lukašenko blew up everything that the cooperation was built on. And it seems to me that at such a moment - because the crucial thing for a democratic regime is that it is possible to replace the one who rules and if someone starts acting in a completely opposite direction, I think that we can do nothing but say and express ourselves. [[16.50 hours]] In this I see today's government position, which clearly stated that Bělorus are entitled and entitled to free elections and that what happened is a violation of all the principles upon which our cooperation was based. And it's the only thing the government could have done. I hope that today in the House there will be a broad consensus that in the case of Belarus, the Czech Republic has a clear and unambiguous position. Just when people in Belarus today show that they have enough of this government, they have the right to decide on a change in elections. That's what I think we have to want, and we have to demand it from the point of view of history, and what we've been through ourselves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u19	Thank you. We will now move on in the debate to Members without priority rights, i.e. Mr Bžoch has finally arrived and Mr Klaus, Volný and Foldyna will follow. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u20	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I promise to be very brief and briefer than everyone before me. It won't let me react to things. Why are we talking about this? There was an excursion to history, to the relations of Belarus, Russia and everything else. I think the main reason is that we saw what was going on before the last election, and that is arresting opposition candidates, their family members, beating up protesters after the election, holding them under conditions that are insane. They don't know where people are, they think they're missing. That's why we're here. And I don't want to worry about whether the Bělorus, it's up to those people, they choose to lean towards Russia or Western democracy, it's up to those people in Belarus. What we should be declaring here is that they must have the right to do so, they must have the right to decide freely in the elections. And apparently they don't have that today. And that's why we're here. Without any other things, whether it has what business ties it has or doesn't have, and without the political excursion and the history that has been said here. We are here because we should declare that we wish the Bělorus to have conditions and must make a free choice. Unfortunately, they just don't have it today. As far as the resolution is concerned, I will then sign up for it in a detailed debate, paragraph No. 1 matches what colleagues will propose and it is actually taken over after consultation with Mr Stanjura of the Senate. It's only got two points. Point No 2 is that we support the position of the Government of the Czech Republic and the steps it takes in relation to the situation in Belarus. That's all. But in conclusion, let me say once again that we are not here to talk about what ties they have in Belarus, Russia, China, all of this. We could be here forever, and we could talk about all the states of the world. We are here because what happens after the elections in Belarus should not happen beyond the European Union's borders, and this is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u21	Thank you for the proposal, which I suppose will also be read in the detailed debate, and I would like to ask for it to be forwarded to the rapporteur and, if necessary, to me. And now, in the general debate, Mr Klaus is signed up. Mr Lubomír Volný will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u22	I would briefly summarize our position on the situation in Belarus with regard to the Tricolore movement. I didn't make that statement today. I have had it for about 20 years because, as with the headmaster of the school, I was lectured by the former students, Belarusian dissidents who emigrated from the repression of President Lukašenko, so that my opinion is quite long-term. Lukašenkův regime is authoritarian and has nothing to do with freedom and democracy. That's one thing. In this sense, I will propose a part of our resolution, which will probably be quite consistent with what colleagues have prepared. But the second part I want to say. I do not really want developments in Belarus to go in the Ukrainian direction to become a collapsing point of the struggles of powers, whether Chinese, Russian, American or other. So that free Belarusian citizens can really decide on Belarus's administration. This is something very important for me to say, because in a similar situation we are either already a work or soon we can be ourselves, and we are always one of those who defend that country to be decided by the people who live here. I don't think I'm gonna dissect it anymore. There's been a lot of talk. My motion for a resolution will be: the Chamber of Deputies expresses its support for the citizens of Belarus in their desire for freedom and democracy - as paragraph No. 1. Point No 2. The Chamber of Deputies notes that President Lukašenko regime has not responded to democracy and freedom for decades. Point No 3. At the same time, as Czech Members, we express the wish that the administration of Belarus should be decided exclusively by free Belarusian citizens, and we reject the plans for using this country in favour of the foreign policy of other states. This is my motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u23	Thank you. Once again, I will say that it needs to be read in a detailed debate. I ask that it be forwarded in writing to the rapporteur and, where appropriate, here. And now, Mr Lubomír Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I will now make a lot of comment on the speech by the now absent Prime Minister, who proposed that the European Union be an action and intervene quickly, because the last time the EU and the EU states were action, as the Prime Minister suggests, it remained bombed into the Middle Ages of Libya, two civil wars, the collapse of both Libya and Ukraine, millions of immigrants, and the annexation of Crimea to Russia. I prefer to tame those Brussels horses and their appetites for the privatisation of Belarus. Unfortunately, everyone will be involved in Belarus's internal affairs today. The European Union will do so, the state will do so, the United States, Merkelová, Macron, does so already Mr Babiš, but we too, this Chamber of Deputies, do not have to do so at all costs. Today, unfortunately, because of the Czech Republic, it is only about who will win and who will rip off the bigger pie from Belarus. I am afraid that, unfortunately, it will be the citizens of Belarus again, as will the citizens of Ukraine, who will pull the shorter end of the saw. Even for millions of Czech Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as the Czech Republic in Belarus, we lit a fire and stupidly repeat the Ukrainian script. Hopefully this time without the tens of thousands of victims. The Czech Republic is undoubtedly involved financially in causing blood riots in Belarus. We ourselves are the countries where hundreds of thousands of demonstrations are taking place against the legitimately elected Prime Minister, after whom bottles have already been thrown in order to hurt him, as we have all seen here in the Chamber of Deputies. Interestingly, these events are organized by the same non-profit sector in both Belarus and Ukraine as well as in the Czech Republic. And let's just say, we have the experience from Ukraine, we have the experience from the United States today, that's enough. It is enough for the pirate Antifa to be ordered to light Prague, and even the Police of the Czech Republic will have to intervene hard. So, Prime Minister, I strongly hope in the interests of all of us that your own words and actions will not return to you as a boomerang. Deafness and blindness to brutal violence against peaceful demonstrators, especially in Catalonia, but also in France, and as already mentioned, even with our Arab allies, it is only such a cherry on the hypocritical cake of most of the proposed resolutions that we, as Members of the Unite Movement, will not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u25	Thank you. I have a note to introduce you to. Mrs Balcarová is sorry for the reasons of work for today's meeting until the end of the day. And now, at this moment, the final application. In the general debate, Mr Foldyna.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I tried very hard to listen to the debate. I watch the discussion on TV, the media and I also watch the discussion on Facebook and the expression of various political parties. It was smiling for me when my colleague Kopřiva from the pirát was talking about Belarus. I didn't want to ask him if he was ever there. I didn't want to ask him if he was ever in the military, if he knew how it was. I didn't want to ask him if he knew how to work the police. I'm not even gonna ask him. [[17,00 hours]] My colleagues in the YES movement, you know I'm not some kind of anti-grandmother. You know that. I'm with you, mostly, a friend. You, against whom she demonstrated in Prague in 2019 according to the organizers' estimates 300,000 people, demonstrated against you and against Andrej Babiš., my friends. T-Mobile said no, it wasn't 300,000, it was 283,000. My friends from the YES movement, do you think Andrej Babiš is supposed to be hanging on a candelabra or in jail? Is it the whole republic? Is it the 8 million voters? What are we talking about here? There seems to be an authoritarian regime in Belarus, as we would call it. And I'm sure it is. Belarus is not Italy, neither the Czech Republic, nor Russia is Italy, nor Germany. They have a very different concept of life from our concept of life. Do you think everyone wants the Western type of democracy, the way we're trying to establish it everywhere? So how did we put it together because we kept our mouths shut about it, in Iraq? We lost Kaddáfí in Libya because he was a dictator. And what changed there for the Iráčan? Do they live better? Do they really live better? Do you think so? Do you think that by paying and financing various fighters in Syria, that there's a better regime today, that it's better? That it's better in Libya? And you think that if we finance from resources - and I listened to the debate on Sunday when the Vice Prime Minister and the Home Secretary said, "We, the Czech Republic, had nothing to do with this. I understand. We, the authorities of the state, believe that we don't have our services and we don't all have our services. We only finance non-governmental organizations that fuck up the system all over the world with taxpayers' money! Wherever they like! Remember that! For the money of the Czech taxpayer, for CZK 4.5 million, an organization is trying to establish a democratic regime in Belarus. Tell him to give us the 4.5 million, 'cause that's the taxpayers' money from Rumburk, and we're gonna hand it over to the people there so they can get a ride to the doctor. Because our health services aren't working. That's our money! Two hundred thirty or two hundred and fifty thousand protesters in Prague on Letná is not the Czech Republic! Here's 8 million voters. Just like it is in Belarus. What are you talking about? Let's set this mirror together! What are we still talking about? Let the Bělorus work out their Belarusian business, and let us make sure that the Čech live better in the Czech Republic! Let us use taxpayers' money for them, for the good of the Czech taxpayer! And let's not pretend that we're the most righteous and wise. We're not. We're hypocrites because we were quiet when it happened elsewhere. When it happened in Paris, they fired rubber bullets. The Prime Minister speaks excellent French. I'm sure he called Macron to call him off tomorrow. You're not supposed to shoot people! Or does he? It's Paris and France. [[The MP lectures loudly, emphatically, emotionally.]] And I don't know exactly what's going on in Belarus at the moment. If the 200,000 people who are demonstrating there are a picture of the whole of Belarus. I really don't know. Do you know? Do we believe in Czech TV what it tells us or was it there? It wasn't? I don't know. What kind of resolution do you want to take? What kind of resolution do we want to adopt here in the Czech Parliament? Us with those problems we can't solve? We cannot solve the situation of socially weak people in the Ústí Region, where there is one excluded locality next to the other. One disfellowshipped location next to the other! People live like beggars! And we couldn't figure it out until today. But most importantly, now I have to find that decent word - we go to other countries and we are terrible moralists. And we just forgot that when regimes broke down in Libya, Syria, Iraq, contrary to international law, we kept our mouths shut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u27	I thank Mr Jaroslav Foldyn. Once again, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from Mrs Hyťhová from 16.30 to the end of the day for work reasons. A colleague of Luzar is now registered, and the Minister of Culture wants priority rights. So, Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek with priority rights. My colleague Luzar can wait a minute. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u28	I'm just here to respond to the speech of the previous speaker. I'm not saying at all, at least I would never claim that there is an a priori pro-Western atmosphere in Belarus. I think there is a relatively pro-Russian atmosphere in Belarus. I know that even the opposition is showing that it wants good relations with Russia for the future. I do not think Belarus is the same as the Czech Republic was in the past. I totally respect all these differences, and I didn't even speculate on any orientations or anything like that in my performance. I don't really care about that. But I was here to remind you that I was dealing with President Lukašenk, who told me that he was very interested in working with the European Union, that he very much wanted Europe to balance the influence of Russia, which he was telling me was completely disproportionate. They would like this to be carried over much more, cooperation and exports with Europe. And that's why we called it quits that he let political prisoners go. And we said yes, go towards the democratic elections and we will deepen cooperation. That was what we said in such an equal dialogue that was conducted correctly, in which it was really just to respect certain principles. With us saying that we want to expand relations between Europe and Belarus. And our condition was the regularity of the elections. So nothing more, nothing less. We didn't even force it. I do not even think that Europe should play a mediator. I completely agree that the Bělorus should make their own decisions. But they should have a chance. Yes, that's true, it's demonstrated here as much as it is in Belarus, but as far as I know, no one's hitting protesters here, nobody's shutting them down. Do you understand? And in the end, it's the choice who has the majority. But this mechanism doesn't work in Belarus. And we had a chance, and even the President was talking to us about it, and we had a chance to say, these are things when you go in that direction, we're going to work together. And if it's not, we'll say, okay, but then we won't cooperate. I said at the time: Thanks to your release of political prisoners, I will promote the elimination of sanctions against Belarus and the release of our economic relations. But now that this has happened, I say, well, that makes it hard. If we want to trade and improve economic relations normally, it is important that you follow certain principles. And to me, it's perfectly okay to say, if someone blew this up, we'll shrug our shoulders. That's all. I don't want to talk about development in Belarus, but we wanted the Bělorus to be able to vote regularly and decide who they want or don't want. And obviously that's not possible now!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u29	Thank you, Minister Zaorálek. Mr. Pavel Žáček's point of fact is now still waiting for Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u30	Thank you for the floor and very briefly. I'd like to make a brief comment. Two groups formed here. One smaller group, such a Russian section in our Parliament of the Czech Republic, or the Czech section of the Russian House, which says: Let us do nothing, let us accept nothing, let us leave the free field to Putin, whether he intervenes there as in August 1968 or whether he gets soldiers, as has already been said, in the territory of Belarus. That's, I think, a smaller group. Then there is a larger group, as I feel it, we will see it in a vote that wants to express what values have been renewed since 1989, after the November revolution, in our space, with which we have come up, that we cannot face violence. We cannot say not to grant the right to any citizen to decide their own future. I think that would be a denial of those values that we are very, very difficult to renew here after 1989. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Leo Luzar, so far the last one entered in the general debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite difficult to speak if one wants to respond to all the suggestions that have been made here, to all the arguments, to pseudo-arguments, sometimes even to the lies that have been told here, and to set them straight. I don't want to do this, because the debate that would start would probably not be for the benefit of the basic thing that we're here today. [[17.10 hours]] A resolution is proposed here to respond to some current situation in the world. We as Parliament of the Czech Republic - I will ask, colleagues, how many of you here in this hall have detailed information about what is going on in Belarus so that you can raise your hand for or against. Or the proposals that are put forward here in these resolutions are so general, so non-binding, I don't want to say vague, but so general, that we can also vote in favour of that generality? Or do we have specific arguments? Which one of you has them? Did the Foreign Affairs Committee comment on this and ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for detailed information? Has the foreign committee expressed itself in order for the ambassador of the Czech Republic in Belarus to come to the Czech Republic and inform this body to tell us what is going on there in particular from his specific matters? Or at least somebody got that information from this ambassador? Did anyone make any effort, the promoters of this point, to verify the information they have here to put together the resolutions they have, with what is being presented to us? Did the government do it? I don't know. It was discussed with the government, Minister, when you started defending the government's position here, you discussed it with the government, and you had information from our ambassador in Belarus about the details of what's going on there? Is there a foreign seducer who's talking about it? You have this information. Why aren't you quoting it? Why don't you use the arguments that have been made so that we can all be clear here and not just refer to the media? When I go back to the beginning and what I wanted to talk about. I am a member of an intermarital group of friends Czech Republic - Belarus. I am a member because I was in Belarus as a member of the petition committee during the last parliamentary term and had the opportunity to debate not only with representatives of the then power of Belarus but also with the opposition. I had the opportunity to meet them and discuss the situation in Belarus quite openly and clearly. I have a feeling of respect for Bělorus who have a difficult situation, someone here used that pot boiling among the superpowers, and who also perceive it very well. They are very well aware of the situation in Ukraine because they are in a very similar position to a small state among the great interests. And they don't like what happened in Ukraine, and they'd like to get off on a different, perhaps better path. But what was in the beginning? There was an election at the beginning. Presidential elections. Until then, we could have had reservations, we could have seen what the election was like, whether they were doing okay or not, but none of us watched because what was then? Covid, who chained the whole of Europe, the whole world to chairs and watched what was happening. This, among other things, is the official reason that, at our request, the Belarusian Embassy has told us why they have asked the OSCE for observers for presidential elections. They didn't know how the covid would turn out in Belarus. On the other hand, it was also clearly suggested that observers to Belarus due precisely to the covido and their approach, which is very close to Sweden's access to viral disease, that is, the restrictions are not applied so much that it would be difficult to get those observers from all over Europe into Belarus. That's why they asked for it late. Not that they didn't ask at all and wanted to keep it all a secret. They just asked late because of the covid. I ask if the election - or who has ever been in the election and knows how the election works, if someone manipulated the election to make it 80 percent to 10 percent, the other 10 are votes for candidates that didn't count. But even if it's 80-20. Can you imagine in the ten million Czech Republic what manipulation in precinct electoral commissions would look like to do an 80.20 manipulation? Do you think it wouldn't get mass-out in quotes, that kind of information? I think this information would be out there and there would be clear evidence. Those people who are on those committees would talk about it. Do we have this information from Belarus? There's this information from Belarus from the opposition, and it's this specific information that would be communicated, in that and in that city, in that and in that precinct, it happened - and now count the numbers that would have to be done. Do we have the information? I'm not saying there's been no fraud. Even in the Czech Republic, there is fraud in elections, municipal elections, and they are common. Even now, last week, some sociologists have come up with an analysis that recommends a change in Czech electoral laws to avoid fraud. They recommend using a color pencil, etc. And I'm a witness, and I have an election memory, and I know we're not getting a single vote in the election district where we have members because somebody cheated. He cheated. He just ticked, he wrote zero. We're just not the exception. But I'm asking how the presidential election has to come to an end when 80 percent were, like, 20, how far that would have to be. Let's try to analyze it, and let's let somebody analyze it, so that even the Belarusian opposition has time to present evidence and submit an analysis of the elections, so that she can clearly tell us where it went. I will not deal with media outputs that supply the Czech public, because clearly according to the media that transmits the information, it is drawn or colored by the color of the media that gives it. But I'm focusing on rare articles by analysts who deal with Belarus in the long run, and when you look at them, you'll find that they're quite cautious. They do not jump like politicians, which is usually exactly the opposite, they do not jump like politicians on the subject, but carefully evaluate the situation in Belarus. It was also said here that most Bělorus are rather pro-Russian, army, that they are pro-Russian, and others. Those analysts are careful - to analyse and interpret what is happening in Belarus. And I'm not saying there's nothing going on. The act of civil will is quite distinctive and must be dealt with by the Bělorus, and they will probably be in uncertainty about what is happening for a long time. But let's go back to the Czech Republic. How should the Czech Republic react adequately? Aren't we part of the European Union? I hear the proposals here and we have them here in the motion for a resolution that we are supposed to be something more than the European Union, that we, the Czech Republic, want to be like Donald Trump, those who impose sanctions. I ask, in this resolution, it says that we are to draw up a law that - let me find the point correctly - would allow individual sanctions and allow the introduction of national individual sanctions against persons who are responsible for serious violations of human rights. So when I look back on the fact that Europe has a European Court of Human Rights, which would be precisely responsible for examining whether there is a violation of human rights in Belarus, and could also take adequate action, I wonder which persons - we already know about them? What's it gonna be like, a list of people? Who's gonna find out? We're sending in our Secret Service to find out who's violating human rights in Belarus? Or do we rely on any names that the opposition from Belarus will send us? If we rely on such names or such information from the opposition in the Czech Republic, guess which names would appear most often and who we should sanction. And maybe it would be over 50 percent of the citizens who would propose sanctioning specific names, specific people. So here I ask the petitioners how they would like to address this in their motion for a resolution. He condemns violent and apparently disproportionate police interference. How about we judge any interference? They can be reasonable, they can be disproportionate. Who's gonna set it? Personally, I think that any interference, violent interventions are bad that should be. And against the undemocratic and unfair course of the presidential election. Do we already know that they're undemocratic? Yes, the opposition claims it, the minority opposition so far in Belarus, but do we have the information? Well, we don't, because we don't have that analysis. And I talked about it. [[17.20 hours]] And paradox. He notes that he has failed to recognise the official results of elections published by the Belarusian State Election Commission and considers the most appropriate solution to repeat presidential elections with democratic progress. So we as the Czech Parliament want elections to be repeated in Belarus. I wonder when the government says that we should not interfere in internal affairs and we should let Belarusians decide, but isn't forcing a state to intervene in other matters? Even if we can recommend a democratic solution, here are new elections and people can make a referendum, they can voluntarily resign, they can do anything. But no, we are forcing him, the citizens of Belarus, the Czech Republic, the Czech Parliament, you must have new elections. At least this is the resolution that is proposed. In their time, even government officials spoke in these tendencies, then began to gently reverse and brake, because the situation is really not as clear as many here try to tell us and use parallels with 89, 68, 48, I don't know what other numbers here in these parallels can appear. Again, it is said that it appreciates the Government's initiative in the EU Council and calls on the authorities to introduce strong sanctions against the persons responsible for for forging elections. So what arguments do we have and evidence that specific persons have forged? The President of the District Election Commission of Minsk, number 27, forged the election. Do we have the evidence? How will we apply this? Or maybe we said "these elections are faked," even if they were 80-20, if you imagined the huge amount of this forgery as it would have to be. So who are we gonna sanction? So I guess someone from the top gets married, they say, the chairman of the electoral committee, he's responsible, we're gonna sanction him. Doesn't that remind you of anything before the U.S. presidential election of Russian interference? Recently, I learned that even the UK referendum on Brexit was definitely falsified, and that the Rus were strongly engaged. We're not in some media world that creates reality, and we don't even want to know the truth and analyze the reality? That is why I would very much like us to go back to what this Parliament is supposed to do and also respond to the clear and clear information that we should receive. So far, we're all responding to some newspaper screams, reacting to some articles that appear in the media, depending on what's close to who. But we forget that we have services here, and we have a government, and we should ask for this information. We have the Ministry of Foreign Affairs here, which should preferably give Parliament information through the Foreign Committee, so that we can make a relevant decision. As far as the motion for a resolution is concerned, I certainly cannot support it with a clear conscience, which is why I will not support it because I lack a lot of information on individual points. It's written, I'm sorry, on your knees. I could discuss it here and look for individualities. I don't want to do this, because I don't think it's time for us to evaluate the situation in Belarus. We should give the citizens of Belarus time to decide for themselves the direction of their country, and we should not say clearly and clearly: this is right, this is wrong, and you must decide in our opinion. They should have free will. And that's what we should be doing here. And I firmly believe that the citizens of Belarus will choose their path. The citizens of Belarus will decide for themselves. And we should keep our fingers crossed for the citizens of Belarus so that they can do so and that the uncertainty period there will last as soon as possible. And I hope that a group of friends of the Czech Republic - Belarus will continue to be very active in the survey of data from Belarus and we will also try to help Belarus overcome the current crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u33	I thank Mr Leo Luzar. This was the last one entered into the general debate. I'm asking if anyone else is checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. We will proceed to the debate in detail. The first entry is a colleague of Kopřiva. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u34	Well, thank you for your word. I would therefore like to put forward a motion for a resolution on ten points, which we will then probably vote separately. The first item I will read, the whole resolution, was prepared by us from the Pirates Club in cooperation with colleagues from KDU-ČSL, TOP-09 and STAN. On the first point, we were inspired by the Senate resolution of 12. 8. and this point is also supported by the club YES. And for those other points, so we're presenting for the Pirates' Clubs, KDU-ČSL, TOP-09 and STAN. "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic 1. Condemns the violent and apparently disproportionate police interference against Belarusian citizens protesting against the undemocratic and unfair conduct of the presidential elections in their country. Freedom of speech and assembly is a fundamental human right whose violent repression must not have a place in the European area; 2. Expresses solidarity with families killed, as well as with injured and tortured Belarusian citizens. Calls for the release of political prisoners, as well as an examination of the fates of missing persons and an independent examination of the repression by the Belarusian regime; 3. Notes that it does not recognise the official results of elections published by the Belarusian State Election Commission and considers the repetition of presidential elections with democratic course and with international observers to be the most appropriate solution; 4. Notes that the Czech Republic lacks a legal standard that would allow individual sanctions to be imposed and therefore calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to prepare an urgent draft law which will enable national individual sanctions to be introduced against persons who are responsible for serious violations of human rights; 5. Appreciates the Czech Government's initiative in the Council of the EU and calls on the EU institutions to introduce targeted sanctions at European level against those responsible for falsifying elections, violence and violations of human and civil rights; 6. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to clarify the suspicion that there are exports or re-exports of materials from the Czech Republic which are subject to licensing proceedings, the EU embargo applies to it and which according to direct witnesses should have used the order forces of Belarus in the violent repression of demonstrations; 7. Calls on the Russian Federation to be restrained and not to interfere with Belarus's internal affairs; 8. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic, in cooperation with the Czech NGOs active in Belarus, to take further necessary steps to promote dialogue between the Belarusian regime and representatives of the Belarusian democratic opposition; 9. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to set up a helpful policy towards those fleeing from Belarus from political repression and to provide support for Belarusian students who show interest in studying at Czech schools; 10. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic of the measures mentioned above by 30 September 2020.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u35	I thank Mr Kopřiv. Before I give the floor to my colleague Bžoch, I will ask the House for peace! And even individual colleagues to take their seats if they are not directly going to speak, so that we can hear the motion for a resolution in a detailed debate. Just a moment, Mr. Colleague. I believe your colleagues will give you enough room to make your motion for a resolution... Well, I'll wait, or I'll start naming individuals. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will only add one point to the resolution, because the first point of my resolution coincides with what my colleague Kopřiva has said, and this is: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic supports the position of the Government of the Czech Republic and the steps it takes in relation to the situation in Belarus." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u37	Thank you. Václav Klaus is now in the detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u38	My resolution is more general. Firstly: "The Chamber of Deputies expresses its support for the citizens of Belarus in their desire for freedom and democracy." Secondly: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that President Lukašenko regime has not been in line with democracy and freedom for decades." And thirdly: "We, at the same time as Czech Members, express the wish that free Belarusian citizens should decide solely on Belarus's administration and reject plans to use this country in favour of the foreign policy of other states."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u39	Thank you. Who else in the detailed debate? If no one... and I see Mr. Radim Fiala yet. Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Since there are a lot of these resolutions, I would like to ask for a 20-minute break at the SPD meeting so that we can talk about the individual resolutions as to how we will vote on them, because it is a new matter that we could not be quite clear about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u41	Okay, thank you. I will oblige you, but before that I state the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová between 17.20 and 19.00 and Zdeněk Podalová between 17.15 and the end of the day - for family reasons both. I'm now declaring a break until 5:50 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. I repeat that before the close of the detailed debate, the chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala, asked me for a break in the SPD's meeting, with the fact that the detailed debate was not closed. It is further claimed by Mr. Jaroslav Foldyna, who has so far been last logged in. Before I give him my word, I state my apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. From 18.30 to the end of the day, Mrs Jarošová apologises for reasons of work. Now, then, Mr Jaroslav Foldyna. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. After the meeting of the SPD members' club, when we read all the proposals and discussed all the proposals, we would like to put forward a call for one of those proposals under item 7, which is a call for the Russian Federation. We believe that if we call on the Russian Federation, on the other hand, we must also call on the countries of the European Union, the European Union as such, the United States of America, not to interfere. Because we believe that if there is a problem in Belarus, it must be solved by the Bělorus. And I think it has its logic, but it's also democratic at the same time. For the SPD club, I propose that item number 7 be modified, or its own point, it is its own point, instead of the seven, so let's say the seven with the comma, that the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Russian Federation, the European Union and its Member States and the United States of America not to interfere with Belarus's internal affairs. That's our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u44	Okay, I understand. Now, Mr Pikal, still in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u45	I understand the proposal, but I think that in such a case we should be complete, and it was said here that the People's Republic of China also has its interests in the area, so I would suggest adding China to this resolution by Mr Foldyna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u46	Yes, Mr Foldyna will comment on the proposal so that we know what we are going to vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u47	Thank you for the comment. I think it's factually correct. In terms of power and influence, of course, I believe that it is not from the point to the point 7: it calls on the Russian Federation, the European Union, its Member States, the United States of America and the People's Republic of China to stay out of Belarus's affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u48	I take it this is an amendment to paragraph 7, which we will vote on separately. If it fails, we will vote on item number 7 in the original version. Can I interpret it that way? Thank you. Anyone else in detail for the debate? I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. Mr rapporteur, we will follow the proposals. We will stop at point 7, we will vote on the amendment, and then if the original proposal fails, and then we will continue. Yes? [[Big noise in the left side of the hall.]] Do we understand each other well? I'm gonna go on because I asked... rapporteur, individual proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm just gonna ask, are we gonna vote this thing out on points?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u50	We can vote en bloc, but no one here has suggested it, and I can't suggest it, it's not my right. But that is what I expected from you, rapporteur, to propose the course of the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u51	Excellent, yes. I have received many requests to be put to the vote on points, so I would suggest that we vote -- all resolutions after points, in the order in which they were read. [[President: So after points]] I will try to guide myself in individual resolutions. First, we will vote the resolution that I have read, which is from the Pirates' workshop, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN, and with permission, colleagues and colleagues, I will always read that point once more, because even though I have given it away, let us know what we are voting on. First point: "The Chamber of Deputies condemns violent and apparently disproportionate police interference against Belarusian citizens protesting against the undemocratic and unfair course of presidential elections in their country. [[in your]] Freedom of speech and assembly is a fundamental human right whose violent repression must not have a place in the European area."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u52	We will decide in the vote number 24. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. And once the number of entries is settled, we will decide in the vote number 24, which I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 24, out of 125 registered 113 for, against no one, the proposal was adopted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u53	"The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic expresses solidarity with the families killed, as well as with the wounded and tortured Belarusian citizens, demands the release of political prisoners, as well as an examination of the fates of missing persons and an independent examination of the repression by the Belarusian regime."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u54	We will decide in the vote number 25, which I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 25, out of 126 in favour, against no one, the proposal was adopted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u55	Thank you. "The Chamber of Deputies notes that it does not recognise the official results of elections published by the Belarusian State Election Commission and considers the most appropriate solution to repeat presidential elections with democratic course and with the participation of international observers."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u56	Okay. We will decide in the vote number 26, which I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 26, out of 124 in favour, 25 against, the proposal was not adopted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u57	"The Chamber of Deputies notes that the Czech Republic lacks a legal standard that would allow individual sanctions to be imposed and therefore calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to prepare an urgent draft law that will allow national individual sanctions to be introduced against persons responsible for serious violations of human rights."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u58	We will decide in the vote number 27, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 27, out of 125 for 22, against 60, the proposal was not adopted. Another suggestion."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u59	"The Chamber of Deputies appreciates the initiative of the Government of the Czech Republic in the Council of the EU and calls on the institutions of the European Union to introduce targeted sanctions at European level against those responsible for for forging elections, violence and violations of human and civil rights."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u60	We will decide in the vote number 28, which I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 28, out of 126 for 45, against 24, the proposal was not adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u61	"The Chamber of Deputies appeals to the Government of the Czech Republic to clarify the suspicion that there are exports or re-exports of material from the Czech Republic subject to licensing proceedings, the EU embargo applies to it and which according to direct witnesses should have used the order forces of Belarus in violent repression of demonstrations."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u62	We're going to vote number 29, which I started. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 29 out of 125 present for 23, against 5. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u63	I will now read the alternative proposal from my fellow Member, Foldyna. [[- Yes.]] "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Russian Federation, the European Union and its Member States, the US and China not to interfere with Belarus's internal affairs."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u64	Okay. I started voting number 30. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 30 of the 123 present for 24, against 32. The motion was not accepted. The original design.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u65	Thus, the original proposal: "It calls on the Russian Federation to be restrained and not to interfere with Belarus's internal affairs. "
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u66	Okay. I started voting number 31. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 31 out of 123 present for 23, against 13. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u67	"It calls on the Government of the Czech Republic, in cooperation with the Czech NGOs active in Belarus, to take further necessary steps to promote dialogue between the Belarusian regime and representatives of the Belarusian democratic opposition."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u68	I started voting number 32. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 32 of the present 125 for 40, against 26. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u69	"It calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to set up a helpful policy towards those fleeing from Belarus from political repression and to provide support for Belarusian students who show interest in studying in Czech schools."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u70	I've started voting number 33. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 33 of the 125 present for 42, against 3. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u71	"It calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic by 30 September of the measures referred to above."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u72	Okay. [[Mr Stanjur:]] Before the vote, Mr President? [[Agreed.]] Okay. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u73	Given the outcome of the vote on points 1 to 9, point 10 makes no sense, we did not recommend any measures. So there's nothing to control, and there's nothing the government would put forward here. I think point 10 is unvoting at this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u74	I agree with that, but I did not want to complicate the procedure, so if the Chamber of Deputies accepts the argument that the chairman of the ODS club told the ODS that it was an unvoicing point, I will not have to vote on it, because there is really no task for a government that we can vote on. The drafters of this amendment agree with this interpretation?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u75	Yes, we agree with that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u76	Thank you. We should therefore vote on the motion for a resolution and we can... [[Attention to other points.]] More points. Now, Mr Bžoch, the motion for a resolution, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u77	There are even more of these proposals, but now Mr Bžoch's proposal is followed, and that the Chamber of Deputies condemns, sorry, the position of the Government of the Czech Republic and the steps it will take in relation to the situation in Belarus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u78	Okay. I've started voting number 34. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 34 out of 126 present for 95, against 2. The motion was accepted. Is there another proposal, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u79	Yes, we still have four points here, Mr Klaus, which I will read. "1. The Chamber of Deputies expresses its support for the citizens of Belarus in their desire for freedom and democracy."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u80	Okay. We will decide in the vote number 35, which I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? [[Constant noise in the hall.]] Quiet, please! Thank you. In the vote number 35 from 125 present for 71 Member, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u81	"The Chamber of Deputies notes that President Lukašenko regime has not responded to democracy and freedom for decades."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u82	Yes. We will decide in the vote number 36, which I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 36 of 122 present for 37, against 5. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u83	"At the same time as Czech Members, we express the wish that free Belarusian citizens should decide solely on the administration of Belarus."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u84	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm voting 37 for confusion. Mr. Václav Klaus has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u85	That is only part of it: 'and we reject the plans to use this country for the benefit of the foreign policy of the states of others'. - That was point three.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u86	Please do the whole point again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u87	"At the same time as Czech Members, we express the wish that free Belarusian citizens should decide solely on Belarus's administration and reject plans to use this country for the benefit of other states' foreign policy."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u88	Okay. You have heard the whole motion for a resolution. We will decide in the vote number 38 when the vote number 37 was declared misguided. I've started voting number 38 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 38 of 122 for 26, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Have we exhausted all the proposals? [[Agreed.]] So, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish point 3. I am still stating an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from 18.30 to the end of the day, Mr Stanislav Fridrich apologizes. At the same time, I will hand over the proceedings to the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-004-003.u89	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, we will now address paragraph 4, which is
