ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-004-008.u1	8. The draft law amending Act No. 551/1991 Coll., on the General Health Insurance Company of the Czech Republic, as amended, and Act No. 280/1992 Coll., on Resorts, Fields, Corporate and Other Health Insurance Companies, as amended /Departmental Press 516/5/ - Returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. We received his resolution as House Press 516/6, and information on the amendments was distributed to us in our mail. I welcome Senator Alena Dernerová among us and I ask that the Minister of Health, Adam Vojtěch, comment on the Senate resolution and the amendments tabled. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-004-008.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for an amendment to the Health Insurance Act addresses, in particular, the way in which health insurance institutions are occupied, and we have discussed it recently. It was returned to the Senate in order to ensure a uniform method of approval of health insurance plans and other important documents of health insurance companies. I would like to remind you that, in the original government proposal, it was envisaged that these materials would be approved by the Government instead of the Chamber of Deputies in the future, especially because, although the documents in question are presented to the Chamber of Deputies on time each year, they have not always been able to discuss themselves in recent years. So for this reason, as a government, we only proposed approval by the government. However, a certain amendment was adopted in this regard on the part of the Chamber of Deputies, which, however, addressed only a part of the occupational health insurance companies relating to the approval of the health insurance plan, the proposal remained with the General Health Insurance Corporation the power to approve the proposal for the materials concerned to the government, thus establishing the difference in the approval of those documents between the occupational insurance companies and the General Health Insurance Corporation. On the floor of the Senate, all the committees that discussed the proposal drew attention to this unwanted double-track, and then the Senate adopted an amendment to maintain the existing method of approving health insurance plans and other materials of health insurance companies by the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, the bill tabled is a response, in particular, to the Constitutional Court's finding. They shall ensure that, after the end of the current term of office of the members of the occupational health insurance institutions, they can be fully filled again. As regards the issue of the approval of health insurance plans, it is not crucial in this respect, and I therefore support the approval of the proposal, as amended by the amendment adopted by the Senate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-004-008.u3	Thank you, Minister. And I beg Senator Alena Dernerová to take the floor. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-004-008.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, honourable Members, Members, I will be very short, brief. The Senate actually agreed with the first part of the proposed law, which responded to the Constitutional Court verdict, that the conditions for becoming members of the administrative and supervisory councils had changed, in fact, the people who were to sit there and not as it was in the previous period, when it was more or less discriminatory. So we didn't have a problem with this part of the law. The problem was that there was a certain double-trackness in the approval of health insurance plans, with a health insurance plan of the IRS to be approved by the government and industry insurance companies of the Chamber of Deputies. We have removed this double-tracking by the amendment, which means that the health insurance plans will once again be approved by the Chamber of Deputies, both VZP and industry insurance companies. That's all. And the Minister agrees, so I don't think there's gonna be a problem with the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-004-008.u5	Thank you, Senator. And before I open the debate, I will ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, which was Mr Kamal Farhan, if he wants to comment. He doesn't want to express himself. Thank you. I'm opening the debate. No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. Is there interest in final words? It's not. So we will proceed to the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I have called in Members and Members who are not in the Chamber. I note that the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed in order to adopt the following resolution. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 551/1991 Coll., on the General Health Insurance Company of the Czech Republic, as amended, and Act No. 280/1992 Coll., on Resorts, Fields, Corporate and Other Health Insurance Companies, as amended, according to House Press 516/5, as approved by the Senate, according to House Press 516/6.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 45, 191 Members signed in for 161, against no one. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the Senator. I'm done discussing this point. The next point we're going to be dealing with is
