ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u1	233. Summary report on the Ombudsman's activities for 2018 /German press 444/ First of all, allow me to welcome Mrs Anna Šabatová's public rights protector among us. The public defender of rights is present, and I would ask her directly to state the report. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to present to you my report for 2018 - I underline 2018, not 2019. Since we handed it over to the House, quite a long time has passed, so I will try to be reasonably brief, because events and things are going quite quickly and in a few months my successor will present my report for 2019. To explain, Professor, that is also the reason why I did not want to be at the hearing of the previous point, because I already consider it a matter between the House and the Government, because I presented the recommendation for 2017 here two years ago. The 2019 report contains ten new legislative recommendations. I'm not reading them. I just want to say that one of them - in order to abolish the fee for the initiative of the Office for the Protection of Competition on the legality of public contracts - has been abolished in the meantime by the Constitutional Court on Institution. I would also like to say that about half of the recommendations are, say, on the right track. Ombudsman's work, aside from taking the initiative, is running on a long track and it takes longer. I went into office with it. I knew it well, and I've always worked with it. There are very few recommendations in the history of 20 years that would not have been fulfilled after some time. It's just like that. Otherwise, with regard to the complaint agenda in that year, we received 8 152 suggestions, which is a common quantity that has not changed much in recent years, of which 69 percent were under the Ombudsman's responsibility, and that is something that is slowly increasing, and it shows that citizens know what the institution is to and when they can turn to it. We visited 27 devices. I keep this up to date with press releases and press conferences and communicate intensively with all the actors involved. We were in facilities for people with disabilities, in devices for the performance of safety care, in psychiatric hospitals and in others. When it comes to protection against discrimination, last year we celebrated the anniversary of ten years of adoption of the law. I can say that the most complaints were in the field of work and employment. And the most common reason for which people approached us was the new race or ethnic origin, the second was the disability, which until then was always first, and also discrimination because of age in third place. We worked with 157 employees, of which 121 directly participated in the professional tasks of the protector. And now I'd like to sort of fix a number that moves in public space. They're not all lawyers. This includes the Ombudsman's file service. So the lawyers were about 98 or 99. We spent CZK 187 million, and that is a very special number, because our expenses are usually about 50 million lower. It was because we built an object to the offices because the lawyers just didn't have a place to sit anymore. We've exceeded the budget by 46 million, but we've covered it all from savings from previous years. Now, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few words outside the subject of this annual report. You can see it as good-bye words. I think it suits you. The Ombudsman is in his 20th year of office. Of course, in those 20 years, the institutions have changed significantly. The law passed 14 amendments and five new areas of action were added. At least three of them are so important and important that in some countries new, independent institutions, such as Slovakia, are based on their work. In other countries, these new tasks are added to the Ombudsman, as the Czech Republic chose. It's about half-and-half in Europe. And I want to repeat something out loud here that you of course know well that the legislator has decided on all these changes, i.e. you, virtually. your predecessors, not the Ombudsman, and also state that the change that arouses the greatest passion, i.e. the protection of vulnerable groups from discrimination, has already been accepted under the mandate of Dr. Otakar Motejl. [[12.00 hours]] Sometimes it is good to look back without emotion and look at the role and usefulness of the institution, not only by taking the lead, but what it does, not only as an individual, but above all as a team of lawyers of the office as a whole, helps people. Only during my mandate, the office checked tens of thousands of complaints. And today -- remember the paradox -- there's talk of two of them. Scarves and apartment rentals for Rom people. It's like the others don't exist. Another paradox is that in both of these cases, in which the persons concerned later fought back in independent courts, they succeeded. In three weeks, you will vote for my successor. I'd like to ask you, don't be fooled by the sweet talk. I would like you to choose who will be truthful, honest, and bravely interpret the law for the benefit of all who turn to it and those who are to be protected by the nature of the law. This does not mean that it always comes to the fact that the complainant is right. But if he's in the right, the Ombudsman should stand up for him, even if he doesn't get a round of applause for it on the open stage. Thank you for listening to me. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]] And I wish you good behavior in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u3	Well, have a nice noon. And I will add that the report has been discussed by the petition committee. The resolution was delivered as Parliament's press 444/1. I ask the rapporteur for the petition committee, Mr Helena Válková, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u4	So here, Mr Vice-President, I must draw attention to such a simple technical problem. I'll give it to you. However, we - and it will be clear why this is a technical problem - have actually adopted it as members of the petition committee under No. 108 at its 19th meeting on 30 April 2019, when we recommended this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies, and it did not occur to us that it would be discussed in practically three quarters of a year. So I'm gonna read it now. The legislation of the Chamber of Deputies will then consider how it will deal with it. It is, of course, a term that we have approved for the government to deal with these legislative initiatives and which is to be presented to the Chamber of Deputies in a report on their use. So we are proposing this resolution, the petition committee. Parliament's Chamber of Deputies I. Notes the Ombudsman's summary report on the Ombudsman's activities for 2018 according to the Parliament's Press 444; II. draws the Government's attention to the importance and need to address the shortcomings identified by the public defender of rights; III. asks the Government to deal with legislative initiatives mentioned in the first chapter of the recommendation of the Chamber of Deputies, p. 8 to 15, and to present to the Chamber of Deputies by 30. 9. 2019 a report on the use of these initiatives by including them in its legislative plan. I have been tasked with submitting this resolution to you, and so I have asked for its approval. After consulting the legislation, I do so because such a resolution has been approved. Please note that this is an impossible deadline for the government by 30. 9. 2019, with the fact that I would define it as a legislative technical deficiency myself. And with regard to the standard period for such cases of processing of those legislative regulations for administration, how it reacted, how the government took advantage of the incentives within the various departments, so it is always imposed about three months to six months depending on the nature of the legislative incentives. So I take into account whether, in the framework of legislative technical adaptations, the deadline could be changed to 30 April 2020. Thank you, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u5	And I'm opening a general debate, and I'm going to be replaced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u6	Mr. Vice-President Okamura, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD will not support the report on the Ombudsman's activities, i.e. the so-called 'SPD'. the Ombudsman, in 2018, as Mrs Šabatová's office fails to fulfil its role. And since Mrs Šabatová's six-year term is finally ending, I'm going to take it a little bit further. The Office itself is a very necessary institute, regardless of leadership, because it is impossible for more and more citizens in our country to gain rights and justice. And the Ombudsman's office, as originally planned, was supposed to defend those ordinary, normal citizens, those working decent people against the very one from the authorities and against the other various immoral things that were happening in the administration, and it was supposed to be the instance to which those desperate citizens, the decent and the decent, could turn and protect them. The fact that enforceable justice does not work in the Czech Republic is a sad fact. It is, however, indisputable and proven by thousands of specific examples of an unbiased official, police or judicial act. Not everything in this area falls within the competence of this office. But for every needy person who gets help against any of the reasons, it belongs to anyone, even this office, thanks. So if the office worked the way it should, that means protecting the rights of those normal, decent, ordinary, working people, that would be fine. But what is completely unacceptable to us is the philosophy of Mrs Šabatová, who has been confused from the outset and is above all a protector of minority rights, inadaptable and Islamic cover-up in schools. Yes, every democracy must protect minorities, but it must never be at the expense of the majority. We in the SPD think that the protection of rights lies in the enforcement of equality for all. Not inequality. The example is both the actions and actions of the Ombudsman in some medialized cases, as well as the legislative proposals of her office. In our report, for example, this is an attempt to make an exception for foreigners, virtually. change of conditions for tests from Czech language for pupils and pupils with different mother tongue. In other words, foreigners should have an "A" in Czech for the knowledge that Čech would get a "3" for. We should repeat to Mrs Ombudsman that discrimination is wrong and that even positive discrimination is discrimination. And in this case, most of those who get worse ratings for the same skills are damaged just because they are Čech. In the past, the Ombudsman has proposed amendments to the assessment of discrimination, with discrimination being also a refusal of services, housing, etc. But even this seemingly anti-discrimination measure is actually discrimination. By prohibiting the owner of the apartment from choosing Ms Šabatová according to her own criteria among the tenants, this discriminates against property owners. And after all, the right of the owner of the apartment to rent it to the person he trusts most. And that's higher than anybody's right to an apartment that doesn't really exist. [[12.10 hours]] Interesting is how in practice the right of anyone to be served in a hotel or restaurant is strangely assessed. On the one hand, several restaurants have already been fined for refusing children in the establishment, and some cases have also been confirmed by the administrative court. Similarly, they were fined businesses that rejected, for example, some Rom people. On the other hand, the Constitutional Court stood up for a hotelier who refused to accommodate Russian clients, more precisely accommodated them only if they expressed their disagreement in writing with the annexation of Crimea. So the state, according to its will, commands what a person can and can't do in his business and whether he can light a fire there, whether he can ban someone from entering there and not someone else. Hated Rusák doesn't have rights, Rom does. Mrs Šabatová, in order not to wrong her, has a weakness for foreigners at the expense of Czech citizens, and therefore rejects Section 26 of the Act on citizenship, which excludes the judicial review of administrative decisions on failure to grant citizenship due to a threat to the security of the state. Mrs Šabatová, according to the House Press, does not dispute that citizenship is not a legal right, but that is a contradiction, because if this is the case, then the State has the right not to grant citizenship without any reason and without any obligation to justify anything. Mrs Šabatová really, I must say, has greatly damaged the image of the Ombudsman's office. And as we know from the surveys that are published, citizens' confidence in the Ombudsman has fallen from 60 to 50 percent, or half of the citizens no longer trust him. Mrs Šabatová is a proponent, as her deputy once wrote, Dr. Křeček, Shabatov-dienstbier's perception of human rights. It is an elitist vision of a world in which there seems to be no normal working Czech and Moravian family. Unfortunately, Mrs Šabatová and the office under her leadership have neither our trust nor public confidence, which are proven, quantified facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u8	I'll stop you for a moment. It seems to me that the noise level is too high. Quiet in the hall, please. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u9	According to the representative of Mrs Šabatová, Dr. Křeček, former deputy of Mrs. Šabatová, Dr. Křeček, the fall in trust in the office is catastrophic. The situation that was under Dr Motejl and Dr Varvařovský is at its lowest level. Mrs Šabatová is the clear culprit of the situation. And here I would just point out that Mrs Šabatová's election to this position was a big mistake for those parties headed by members of the ANO, the ČSSD and the TOP 09 who admitted to this publicly, in media terms, during the last parliamentary term when Mrs Šabatová was elected to this post for six years. And we should clearly name this mistake, and we should make it clear that we do not repeat this mistake here again. I did not vote for Mrs Šabatová in the last parliamentary term when she was elected here, and I pointed it out. And time gave me the truth, and it turns out that not voting for Mrs. Šabatová was the right decision. And the public evaluation clearly answers that. Under Mrs Šabatová's leadership, the Ombudsman's office has become an institution that controls the highest amount of social benefits that is inadequate. This is directly complained about by workers, civil servants from the social services trade unions in the Czech Republic. While they are trying their best to control that social benefits are not abused by inadaptables, Mrs. Šabatová is pissing off - she's pissing off! - against the office, against their decisions, and, on the other hand, because of Mrs Šabatová and because of the ombudsmance, it is still very expensive for us and, on the contrary, the lives of the so-called inadaptables are preferred. And it's proven, we were directly discussing it with these workers. And it wasn't just me, it was here, for example, our Mrs Šafránková, who is in charge of social affairs with us. So Mrs Šabatová directly harms, harms the citizens of the Czech Republic by still having the most money sucked out by those who have made a program out of not working their whole lives, even though they are skilled, and against the state administration, against those officials who are fighting against the abuse of those benefits. In doing so, people have associated great expectations with the office, because human rights need to be returned to all people so that it is not just a matter of minorities. Human rights are enjoyed by both women and men, even white people, Čech or Moravák, Catholic and heterosexual, and of course also by the owners of apartments or restaurants. They also have millions of those who get up for work every day and pay such a high salary to Mrs. Ombudsman, so many who refuse to get up for the job. However, Mrs Šabatová has always defended them in priority. Stealing from decent and proper citizens of their wasted money is also discrimination like thunder. And it will be a good thing that even such people in the office of the Ombudsman will have a greater standing. And here I would return briefly to one of the many negative medialized cases that the Ombudsman, Mrs Šabatová, is responsible for. It is a case of covering up a Muslim Somali student at the Prague Central Medical School in Prague 10 in Russian Street. So there it was, that the school - there is the director Ivanka Kohoutová - created and approved a school code that forbids the Islamic - respectively, which forbids simply covering up within the school. And this student refused to respect the Czech school code, the school code at the school. So she got the terms, the student so she could study here with us, and she started making trouble by not wanting to respect the school rules. In a normal country, one would expect the whole matter to end by being called upon to respect the school rules, and if it does not respect the school rules, it will somehow be affected and so on. But that wouldn't be Mrs. Šabatová, because Mrs. Šabatová, instead of taking sides with the school, a high school health school, used her public money to defend the Muslim student against the school's decision, against the school's rules. This means, instead of defending decent and proper Czech citizens who complain to me about Mrs Šabatová, that they send her their injustices, working people, and wait a long time for an answer and write to me, just look into the discussion on my Facebook, so they write it to me and complain about Mrs Ombudswoman, so the Ombudswoman is wasting her time on these things. That's crazy! It's incredible what a lady ombud is doing! So I'll be glad and I'm glad that the six years have finally passed and that it's finally over. And I hope there's someone there to defend the rights of decent and proper people. And now it goes on, because, as you know, the girl with lawsuit mediation - where she got money for lawyers, we don't know, but we suspect that it's another pro-migration nonprofit organization again, and I wouldn't be surprised if it was some nonprofit who was still getting some subsidies from the state, but at least Mrs.Šabatová and her office is being paid out of taxpayers' taxes - so the girl sued her school, sues us, sues us, sues basically here citizens of the Czech Republic who allowed her to study in the Czech Republic at all. It's unbelievable! She's actually suing us, actually the Czech Republic, the Czech citizens, suing us here, our environment, I would say, when I say it in general, which allowed her to move here and live here. And she's still suing us for $60,000, and she's still trying to break the school code. District court for Prague 10, where the student failed. She didn't even succeed in the city court. Of course, with the great support of Mrs Šabatová, the Ombudsman, who publicly constantly supports opinions against the school, against the secondary health school, against the majority opinion of the citizens of the Czech Republic, the Supreme Court has now decided and complied with the call of that Somali girl. And the public defender of rights, the public defender of rights in quotation marks, because it has nothing to do with the public defender of rights at all, when a proven majority of the public opposes and disagrees with it, rather, I would say the defender of the rights of Islam and Muslims, so Mrs Šabatová took the student side from the start and welcomed the decision of the court. [[12.20 hours]] It's written right here. He says directly: I'm happy. He says: I am pleased that high school health school will be bullied, I am pleased that Muslims in the Czech Republic will be able to cover themselves up, and he says that he is a victim of discrimination. On the contrary, I think we are victims of discrimination. Or am I in Saudi Arabia or a woman or a man, can I wear a bathing suit and walk down the street? Can I open a beer there? Can I build a new Christian church there? They're discriminated against! We can't do it there. So it's exactly the opposite. We are in favour, as I said in the introduction, we are in favour of balanced relationships. We are in favour of the same rights and obligations, so that everyone has the same rights and obligations. That means until we can go in an Islamic country in a bathing suit or a girl in a short skirt, as we usually do, and have a drink on the street, so why should they do it here? It's just the opposite. I don't understand how the Ombudsman's office thinks. You're confusing the cause and effect at all! You guys are completely insane, aren't you? So when they're secular, when they're tolerant, there's no problem for the relationship to be balanced. I don't get this at all. So, of course, in this context, I would like to emphasise that, as always, the SPD is offering a constructive solution to this problem, because we already have two laws here for a year in connection with Islam. We have a law here to ban Islamic cover-up. But it's not just Islamic, it's also covering the face with the religious subtext, and it's exactly the law that's written, it's a functional model, it's a functional law, it's already the law in Austria and Denmark. So there's no point in discussing whether it's possible or not. It's just possible. In Austria, it's already true in Denmark, so that's right, we basically copied the law and it's filed here. That's right. And those ridiculous accusations that people won't be able to cover themselves in the winter, put a scarf over their faces here, all of which we have already consulted with the House's legislative union on a legislative basis, that won't be a problem at all, that's what everyone will be able to do. Or a carnival mask. Here it is, it's exactly listed to be exactly as it is in Denmark and Austria. We also filed a bill here to ban the promotion of hate ideologies. We mean, of course, Islamic ideology. And both laws, because Islam is simply a discriminatory religion, proclaims that men are superior to women, proclaims the superiority of believers over unbelievers - by the way, even homosexuals murder there. So Mrs. Šabatová, as a public defender, defends these things. She's defending an ideology like this. Now I don't know what she's paid for. I thought she was paid to defend Czech proper and decent citizens. And Mrs Šabatová is a defender of this ideology. Why didn't she focus on it? Why doesn't he focus on these aspects of things so that it isn't here when, for example, the chairman of the Muslim community in Brno, Alrawi is preaching in the mosque, and it's recorded, while it's also in Brno, Mrs Šabatová has a few meters here, but she doesn't care. There's a recording here, a proven record that says parents, Muslim parents, teach children hate unbelievers. I mean, anyone can listen to the tape on the Internet, right now they can Google it. I published it a few years ago. Nothing! The Ombudsman isn't doing it. You may have it a mile away from your office. I don't know exactly where the mosque is in Brno. We all know it's there, there's pictures everywhere, there's lots of videos, everything, and, of course, Mrs. Šabatová knows where the mosque is, but it's worse because she wouldn't do it. So it is true for us that we are really dissatisfied with the priorities that Mrs Šabatová showed at the Ombudsman's office. I say for myself, she's a woman, so I'm trying to be as polite as I can and I'm trying to take it really well, but I'm really glad that Mrs. Šabatová is done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u10	Thank you. Your performance raised several factual points. First, Mr Kopřiva.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that this will not be an abuse of the factual point, because it is meant to comment on the course of the debate, and it seems to me that I will now rather comment on the shooting of the dungeons that are sounding here. So I would just like to take advantage of this space and thank Mrs Ombudsman for her activities and activities not only in 2018, but for her entire term of office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u12	So, the next one, with a factual remark, will be made by Mrs Olga Richterová, and Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal will be prepared. Okay, your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u13	Thank you for the floor. In particular, I would like to apologize to all the listeners who found some of the previous speeches to be a waste of public funds, for having to listen to this. Secondly, I would like to stress that there is no need to talk about this flamingly when it comes to the abuse of public funds. You either need to prove it and prove it, or you need to apologize.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u14	Now, next, please, Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal will speak and Mr Pavel Plzák will prepare his final two factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u15	Thank you for the floor. Since we don't have the British tradition, it didn't take place here during the previous mooing speeches and the like, instead of general disinterest, possibly. However, I would like to comment on some things. If, of course, hate ideology of any kind is spread somewhere in the Czech Republic, it is a matter of secret services. And as far as I know, there are some courts at the moment. This is not the subject of the Ombudsman's work, because it is intended to protect ordinary citizens from some act of constitutional and lack of justice. I don't know if you normally meet those citizens, I believe you do, but a lot of citizens simply encounter that their rights are not adequately investigated, and they gradually lose their will and trust in the rule of law. And that is what we have to deal with here, and I will comment on that later, when I sign up properly for the debate, because some recommendations have been made and none of them have been implemented, whether in the House or on the government that would be involved in this. However, what I want to comment on is the discrimination that is being promoted here. We do not want to be the same as some Islamic republics or Islamic kingdoms, when we will prescribe to people how to dress and how not to dress. That's just discrimination the other way around. If we want to be a free society, which is the opposite of what we're saying here, we can't tell people whether to cover themselves or not. After all, the constructive solution that was mentioned here, the law on the prohibition of cloaking, would probably forbid the costume balls and certainly in the formulation as set up, would forbid the veils of the brides. So much for the constructive solution proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u16	So now, with a factual remark, Mr Pavel Plzák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u17	Good morning, colleagues, colleagues, members of the government - I do not see, but - my short remark is really factual and concerns the unfortunate scarf. And I think Mrs. Ombudswoman heard it from me in the last parliamentary term when I was on the petition committee. Me and maybe Mrs. Válková here as a lawyer. I don't know where I'm going with this verdict, but even from the mouth of Mrs. Ombudsman, he took the term "religious symbol." Because I was wondering at the time, I really read the Koran, and I was specifically interested in covering it up. There is talk in one sura about the fact that women should cover their ornaments - let's not forget what one considers to be an ornament - and in another, another sura it is written that women shouldn't stomp too much while dancing so that their ornaments don't nod too much. So under these ornaments, I imagine these women probably shouldn't be walking too naked. Nowhere is it written that the scarf is a religious symbol, and we are witnessed by Turkey, for example, where Muslim women walk in plain hair, and others. I'd compare it to the fact that our great-grandmothers, our great-grandmothers, when they just went under the hat so-called, they just started covering their heads when they got married. But it had nothing to do with religion. [[12.30 hours]] Can anyone explain to me how the judge came to know if it's based on an opinion, or a Mrs. Ombudswoman, that it's a religious symbol in this case if no one's following it? And, as we know, Muslims are strictly following the Korán, because the Koran was dictated directly by bůh through the archangel Gabriel, which is why it is constant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u18	Mr Bělobrádek, with a factual remark, will now prepare for the last effective Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal. Otherwise, I'm just gonna go, Mr. Ambassador. Now the Minister's going to leave. I was just calling to see if there was a government presence, and I'd have to break it off. I thought you'd come up with the challenge, but you were just packing up, and you wanted to leave again, so I guess that wasn't the call to secure a member of the government. So just so you know, I'm dealing with it, I already called. And if he doesn't get there in a short time, I'm gonna have to interrupt. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u19	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, to the blankets of the head. Of course, then we have to ask about the yarmulke. I don't know where it says in the Bible that a Jew should wear a yarmulke. And I'm convinced that if an orthodox Jew is studying a medical school, or if, for example, a nurse or a dedicated virgin comes in a robe, including a shrouded head, someone probably doesn't consider it a religious symbol, someone does. However, if that's how these people feel, I think it needs to be respected. Of course there are different types of Islam. Here we have heard pretty harsh words that confuse different types and different traditions. Of course, if the face is shrouded, it's pre-Islamic customs and all that. Yes, well said, even our grandmothers, or even in folklore convulsion and so on. But so that we don't get into a situation where a nurse of the order is studying medical school and is forbidden to go there according to how her rules order her. I think it's very similar. What I understand is that some schools don't want boys sitting there in hats, I understand. I also understand when I'm at the stadium and the Czech anthem is playing and a large part of the audience doesn't shut down. I think these are things that are related. I would urge that, as part of our respect for our national symbols, we also participate in the fact that it takes off in the national anthem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u20	Now let me just recap, I have four factual points here. So Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal, then Mrs Zuzana Majerová will be prepared, then Mr Jiří Strýček and then Mr Jiří Kobza. So, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u21	Mr Bělobrádek said it in part for me. However, to cover up as a religious symbol, I would choose from Christianity the first letter of the apostle Pavel to the korintský, which says in Chapter 11, that women should wear a veil if they are in prayer or in proclaiming the word of the prophets. So much for covering up as a religious symbol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u22	Mrs Zuzana Majerová will now speak to the facts and prepare Mr Jiří Strýček. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u23	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I am taking the facts because I am worried that I would not come next in the debate. I read carefully before Christmas the Ombudsman's annual report, which he has been carrying out for the sixth year - [[Offices]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u24	I just need to warn you that it is correct that a factual remark should respond to some previous speakers and should not be used to speak in the general debate. [[Mrs Majer: Yes.]] So I'll give you space, but consider it, because if you put it in such a way that instead of a general debate, you... I'll cut your time. That you will not get in the general debate, therefore on factually, that is not acceptable, I must tell you. So I'm gonna give you the space, madam, but please, we can't put it that way, we're gonna bring down the Rules of Procedure here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u25	You've had too long a speech, and at that moment I've evaluated it, and therefore, well, I'll respond to Mrs. Ombudswoman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u26	But I'll give you space, I'll give you space, I'll give you two minutes to stop, but please take it another way. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u27	Okay. I will respond to the public defender of Anna Šabatová's rights, who has been performing this function for the sixth year. This report is after graphic, stylistic, marketing aspect really on the level. But even the most brilliant PR, which apparently this office can handle to the top, doesn't wash away from your six-year effect a few indelible stains and aftertaste. In particular, I am referring to the pursuit of Director Ivana Kohoutová in the context of the so-called scarf affair, which is returning to the game and to which your office has been bestowed. Instead of helping, the principal was dragged around the courts for months. The principal was just following the rules. Instead of being awarded, she faced criminal prosecution and was fundamentally disrupted not only by her professional life but also by her private life. This frightening example showed that the Ombudsman's office is currently a politicized institution that is subject to the ideology of political correctness, genderism and multiculturalism. And among other things, Director Kohoutová is defending our legal guardian Radek Suchý. And I don't even remind you of the Kuřim case where your role has not been explained satisfactorily to this day. Over the last six years, I believe that the Ombudsman's office has been completely abused for political agitation of the new left and discredited. Instead of helping citizens, he has lent himself and has taken on ideologies that have no right to address this office. [[Time.]] [[Time, Madame.]] For us Members, this is a warning -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u28	I must interrupt you, Madame, we must observe the time. [[Mrs Majer: Yes.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but... [[Mrs Majer: Last sentence. I just want to say that...]] It shouldn't be the last sentence. [[Mrs Majer: Based on this fact...]] Madame, I can't give you the last sentence, because that would bring us down. Don't be mad at me! Personally, I can think of what I want, but I can't give it to you. [[Mrs Majer: I understand, thank you.]] Please log in to the application again and of course you will be able to continue. Well, I'm sorry, but... I know what you wanted to say, of course. So, Mr. Jiří Strýček, two minutes and Mr. Jiří Kobza will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u29	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am merely here to supplement Mr Bělobrádek with your assistance, which is not here at the moment. She's a Jewish yarmulke, religious symbolism, because according to the Jewish faith between boh and the man who is the yarmulke... there must be something. So if, of course, you have noticed that all Jews wear hats, especially orthodox ones, because there must always be something between them and boh. And if the hat isn't on his head, so that there's something in the quotes, then there's got to be a yarmulke. That means when you see the yarmulks on the street, they're not orthodox Jews, they're normal Jews who just have to wear the yarmulk for religious reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u30	Thank you. Mr. Jiří Kobza will now appear. Otherwise, you know that if someone pulls over, I'm sure I always tolerate one or two sentences without problems, even three, but as much as it is, then it would really ruin us. You know that. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, hello. I would like to respond to previous speakers, to the duty or optionality of Islamic cloaking, or, as they say, the duty of the hijab. Of course, in different countries, this obligation is applied differently. We have a big difference between cities, for example, in Jordan and rural areas, where women walk consistently covered. A woman who's unclothed usually gets a shower of rocks or a whip wound, or what's on the hands of the mortuary. In Iran, the penalty for bad hijab was 70 lashes. In Afghanistan, the punishments were even more severe, in other countries, Pakistan, some areas of Indonesia, and so on. So it's understood in these countries as a symbol. But most importantly, it is an integral part of the concept of political Islam. It's one of the first circumstances where the hijab, the scarves, the Muslims force non-Islamic society, the majority society, the one they moved into to start accepting them to get used to them. I know it from Australia, that's where this process goes for quite a long time. These people are even paid to go upstairs in the hijab and in the dishdash or in the galabia to create the feeling that the Muslim society is quite strong. [[12.40 hours]] And the addition to the grandmothers in Moravia. I come from South Moravia and there women wore a scarf of course, because it is an agricultural area, and it was a purely practical measure, because the plain-haired woman had hair full of dust in the evening, so she was forced to cover herself for a purely practical reason. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u32	Now I have two factual points here. Member Jaroslav Holík and Member Polanský will prepare. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u33	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me compare a little bit of a church building and a school. Both of these buildings are places where we acquire knowledge. And each of these institutions has some rules. I'm not allowed to enter a Catholic church with a blanket on my head, on the contrary, I'm not allowed to enter a synagogue without the blanket on my head. The school we are talking about has laid down rules that you must not wear nicabs or simply Muslim symbols. And I would expect a human rights protector to defend what we have somehow legalized in this society, not to oppose it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u34	Thank you for keeping time. And just like the last de facto - MP Polanský. Is Mr. Polanský of the pirát here? [[No.]] So I'm gonna put it away. We will return to the general debate and with priority rights the chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala will perform. Please. Member Jiří Kohoutek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear government, let us return from Islam to the Ombudsman's office. The task of the Authority, whose report we have presented today for the assessment, is to protect the human rights of citizens, a major task. I am convinced that it is currently becoming more and more topical. There is no doubt that citizens are increasingly exposed, for example, to bureaucratic bullying. A šikana that is necessarily created by an increasingly swelling state apparatus. First and foremost, businessmen and smaller entrepreneurs are experiencing more and more administration, a sense of lack of justice, and they are also unable to reach justice. Unfortunately, in our country, which is part of the European Union, there is an increasingly open tendency for the elite of the European Union to suppress human, cultural and national rights. We face an open attack on freedom of speech, the values of a traditional family, and the values of nation and nation states. People are becoming selectively criminalized for their views, and the rights of our country and its citizens are increasingly restricted. There are therefore many challenges in protecting the rights of our country's citizens. Unfortunately, the office under Mrs Šabatová's leadership does not give priority to the essentials I named. On the contrary, the priority of Mrs Šabatová's office is to promote positive discrimination and a non-critical concept of rights separated from obligations. The Authority has become a firm support for the inadaptable and their idle life. He has become the support of the European Union's multicultural and migration policy and defender of inclusion destroying Czech education. It is a bad concept of an office that is foreign to the real needs of our country. Start defending, above all, the rights of those who work in this country and their families. Defend the rights of those to whom this country belongs. And when you do, we'll support it. You're not doing it now, so you won't even get our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u36	Now with priority rights, Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek and will prepare a Member of Jiří Kohoutek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u37	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, I volunteered because I found out that I was the only minister here, and I have to be here. So I figured I'd watch it too, of course. I'm sorry I'm the only one here. But when I listened to the debate, let me make a statement, because I have heard a series of critical speeches here to Anna Šabatová's address and criticism of the way she is performing in this office. So let me give you my opinion, too, because it seems to me that the assessments against her are not fair. I confess to you that, in the long run, I think it's people like Anna Šabatová who have something in common that fit this type of office. I mean Otakar Motejl, who, I believe, was also in charge of the office. I know that Mrs Šabatová's husband, Petr Uhl, was also a human rights defender when Miloš Zeman was Prime Minister in this country. And I am deeply convinced that this type of people belong to these functions, and I will explain why. All these people, including Mrs Šabatová, are linked by the fact that, in fact, at times, regardless of what the regime is, they are able to side with those who have the least power. They actually repeatedly, all these people, always, no matter what, and whoever's in charge here, stood on the side of the helpless. That's the essence of how they behave and why they perform the way they perform. You give it different stickers or you try to classify it differently, but I think because I also knew Mrs. Šabatová's father Jarda Shabata, so I know very well that this was the main driving motive in their behavior. The remarkable thing about them is that they spent quite a long time in prison because of it. Petr Uhl may have been in prison for the longest of all. Jarda Šabata was also in prison, and even his daughter Anna Šabatová was in prison before her father. And when I asked Jardy Shabata what it was like when he was first arrested, he said to me, "It was a huge relief for me because all my children were in prison except me, and I was already suffering because I was the only one at liberty." This is simply an entirely strange environment for people who seem to me that they were in something even in socialism like steel, because where others feared and dared not, they were able and willing to perform to protect those who were the weakest. And I have a feeling Mrs. Šabatová is doing this just like he did today, just like her father did, like Otakar Motejl did, like Petr Uhl did. And it seems to me that the price of these people and similar people in society is great, and no one can convince me that even your performances will convince me that there is no special value to this country when there are people who, whoever is in charge here, are always in a strange opposition to that power and are looking for a way to find the weakest in that society and to try to help them. And that's the logic of what they do. You know, without people like that, I feel like the company would be a lot weaker and a lot poorer. That is the essence of what Mrs. Šabatová is doing. You know, there are different interpretations and debates about multiculturalism and all that, but don't be mad, I'm always seeing the same thing about what he's doing. She seeks the most powerless, she does not seek to have a privileged relationship with power in any society, she always stands in some strange opposition. Just like her father did, like Otakar Motejl and others did. And I'd like to convince you that it's something worth a lot. Not everyone has the courage, not everyone has the ability to ignore what they wear and say their own in spite of everything. Consider it because I always felt with Mrs. Šabatová and her father that they had something in them that was made of steel and that they didn't care what the fashion regime or the regime was telling them. They're just walking around. You can disagree with them, you can argue with them, but you can count on them to say it spontaneously, they know what they're doing, and they're ready to bear the consequences. I confess, I quite admire this, and even though I can argue with Mrs. Šabatová in some ways, we don't have to have the same opinion, it's always the respect that she's made of a dough that's unusual in this country. So I just admire these people, and I think they belong to these very functions. I'm sorry I called you that way. I'm telling you, I know what I've believed in for years, and there was a need to report on it here. And thank you for your patience for hearing this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u38	Now with a factual remark by the President of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip and then prepare for the de facto Mr Pavel Plzák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u39	Mr President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to the debate and not to one of the speakers. However, given how much is still applied for, and I do not consider this debate to be any inferior to the debate on the laws, I suggest that, at 13 o'clock, we discontinue the discussion of this point with the fact that the new term of discussion for which we will have to take about more time than we expected, from 11 to 13 o'clock, to decide by the Organising Committee, or that the Organising Committee should propose a hearing so that we may need to set a new point on Thursday. This corresponds to the Rules of Procedure because I am interrupting to a specific date, i.e. by Wednesday at 13:00, with the result of the organizational committee to decide on a further inclusion of this point. Thank you. This is a procedural proposal and I request a vote without debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u40	I'm gonna sing. However, there will still be room for factual remarks, because the President has suggested if it passes, that we stop at 13:00. Someone's been packing, but there's still room. So I'm begging to vote immediately. I'll sign you off, all of you, sign up with your voting cards. I think we're in sufficient numbers here. We will vote on Vice-President Filip's proposal to interrupt this item by the next Wednesday at 13 o'clock when the Organizing Committee is. With the interruption at 13:00, I'll just make sure it's right. Initiating vote, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 73, 105 Members signed in for 95, versus 2. The motion was accepted. We will now continue the debate and Mr Pavel Plzák will make a point of fact, and I have a second factual one - Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u41	I'm going to respond to Minister Zaorálek. He got away from me. He's Mrs. Ombudswoman here... Sorry, he's behind me, but he can't hear me. I'm running out of time. Secretary of Zaorálek, if I may, you have portrayed Mrs. Ombudsman as an Iron Lady. Maybe that's true, but she's got her backside, too. And I'd like you to go talk to a facility where the Ombudsman's office was in control, and talk to the management. And sometimes the controls stink of bullying. And Mrs. Válková is a witness when we were in Boletice, where there are child killers, where the Ombudsman's office blamed the facility for not having children's flowers and pots in the room. And the principal said, "Please, what would those kids do first with the pot?" They're gonna pop out the window with that pot. But what's worse is, unfortunately, the administration of the office lost money to instigate the Ombudswoman. She made sure their rewards were reduced.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u42	Now with a point of fact, so far the last application, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. Madam, please take your word for it, your two minutes. And Mr. Jiří Kohoutek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u43	Mr President, Madam Ombudswoman, fellow Members, I would like to say a little bit of a look on the other side. You know I've been a senator for a long time. Whether in the position of a senator or now as an MP, where we couldn't do anything, where I couldn't do anything like a legislator, when people turned to me with problems towards the authorities of the state administration, and they were especially people with disabilities, so there helped the Ombudsman's office. I really thank Mrs Šabatová, the public defender of rights and her entire office for the work they do. It is necessary, it is very necessary in our society. And I think that we as the legislature should support this organization, this institution, and not reduce its authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u44	Now I'll read the apologies. Mr Juříček apologizes for this afternoon's meeting from 14.30 pm to the end of the day for working reasons. Mrs Lenka Kozlová apologizes 23. 1. between 14.30 and 21.00 because of the doctor's visit, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová apologises for today's meeting from 13.00 to the end of the day for working reasons, Mrs Věra Procházková apologises on 23. 1. from 14.30 pm until the end of the meeting for work reasons, Mr Petr Sadovský apologises on 23. 1. between 14.00 and 19.45 for working reasons and Mr Lubomír Volný apologizes 23. 1. from 11 a.m. to the end of this week for personal reasons. I will now ask for Mr Jiří Kohoutek's speech. Please note that I will interrupt you at one o'clock. However, you will have a chance to finish your speech or to say it from the beginning when we continue with the interrupted point. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u45	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing more needs citizens than enforceable justice. Today, a huge part of the population is reachable (?). Specific cases show that no one is really safe from the plot, regardless of whether he is rich or poor, whether he is an anonymous citizen or a popular person. The current form of the Ombudsman is insufficient from this point of view, because the Ombudsman has no chance of helping, for example, the victims of justice. And the point is, you don't often get rights not only in criminal matters, but also in civil matters. The other is that, even undermining power under Mrs Šabatová's leadership, it has degenerated to defend the totally senseless pseudo-rights of selected minorities at the expense of the majority's rights. I would like to emphasise, at the expense of the workers' rights, a socially beneficial majority. Protecting minorities from the will of any majority is completely legitimate. On the other hand, they must not cross the line behind which they turn into bullying the majority. [[13.00 hours]] The degradation of the Ombudsman's office has come so far that votes are being taken to abolish this office. It is certainly the ideological focus of the current head of office, and it is clear that, for example, her deputy, Dr. Křeček, should return the office to the path of protection of the rights of Czech citizens, because most are victims of inadaptable minorities and are entitled to the protection of their rights as anyone else. Of course, considering a certain change in the management concept of this office, so that the individual cannot in future degrade and distort the institution and actually liquidate its real purpose, i.e. the protection of the rights of all citizens regardless of nationality, color and gender, i.e. to be protected e.g. got a working heterosexual white male, no matter what the program's popular today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u46	So now I call on Mr Radek Rozvoral - but it is a minute, so if we can agree, I would interrupt this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and I will see you here at 14.30 at the oral questioning. Thank you, Mrs. Ombudsman, for visiting us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-007-233.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you to this afternoon's meeting. Before we go any further, I'll introduce you to your apologies. There is a note from Mrs Válková from 14.30 to 18 o'clock for working reasons, Mr Vondrák from 14.30 to 18 o'clock for working reasons, Mr Kalousek from 14.30 to 18 o'clock for working reasons, Mrs Nevludová from 14.30 o'clock for personal reasons, Minister for Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček from 14.30 to the end of the working day for working reasons, Mr Strýček from 15.30 to the end of the sitting day for working reasons, Mr Petrtýl from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day for personal reasons, Mr Třešňák from 14.30 to 19 o'clock for working reasons, Mr Richter from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day for working reasons, Mr Dvořák from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day for working reasons, Mr Vrány from 14.30 to 18 o'clock for working reasons, Mr Berkovec from 16 to 18 o'clock for working reasons, Minister Hamáček from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day for foreign health and Mr Vrána's working day. This rounded the number of apologized members of the government somewhere to at least eight. However, I begin with paragraph 292 of this 40th meeting, which are
