ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-005-065.u1	65. Government bill on medical devices / House print 696/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, Adam Vojtěch, Minister of Health, will present the proposal. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-005-065.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a draft law on medical devices, which, let me introduce to you now. This government proposal was approved by the government on 6 January. The main part of the proposal is the adaptation of the Czech legal order to the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on medical devices and also concerns the amendment of the relevant directives and related regulations. This Regulation was adopted at European level with its twin in vitro diagnostic medical devices in order to ensure a higher level of safety of medical devices used, and thus of patients, throughout the European Union. At European Union level, this was mainly a reaction to an infamous series of cases relating, for example, to the PIP's ill breast implants, a case from France. The draft law therefore, following this regulation, has the task of adapting the Czech rule of law to EU rules. In particular, duplicate national arrangements should be abolished. That is why we are presenting a completely new bill in this regard. Furthermore, in the light of the regulation, the proposal regulates, for example, issues of competence, where it designates individual national authorities, in particular the State Institute for Drug Control, as supervisory authorities or empowers them to exercise the powers conferred on each Member State by the regulation. The proposal regulates in detail the obligations of individual types of economic operators in the field of medical devices, as well as the issues relating to the labelling and identification of medical devices. Furthermore, a new modification of the parties during clinical trials, market surveillance and vigilance system is provided. Last but not least, in order to comply with the obligations of the Czech Republic as a Member State of the European Union, it is necessary to ensure the enforcement of the rules laid down in the regulation in the field of determining the various factual elements of offences. The proposed proposal thus ensures that European-wide rules, set out in particular in order to ensure patient safety, are also enforceable in the territory of the Czech Republic. As regards the second content of the proposal, which is purely national legislation independent of the directly applicable regulation of the European Union, this constitutes the completion of a comprehensive legal framework for medical devices. Questions for prescription, dispensing, use or service of medical devices are then further modified. Allow me, then, to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, to ask you to support this proposal, which aims to increase the safety of medical devices and patients in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-005-065.u3	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur for the first reading is Mr Julius Špičák. The rapporteur, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-005-065.u4	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think the whole action has been clearly explained and presented by the Minister. This is definitely a matter that is quite obviously complicated and very necessary, because, as has been said, there have essentially been quite obvious practical problems that have had a specific negative effect on patients. For example, as far as medical devices are concerned, there will be an obligation for each implant to be accompanied by an understandable card, which will basically identify the implant clearly, clearly explaining how to use it and any risks. An important part is also strengthening primary care by proposing a change in prescription, so that certain medical devices can also be prescribed by non-medical health professionals. There is also, which is a practical matter, a change in the time when a medical certificate can be applied. This period will generally be shortened, which will, of course, be practical for all involved, and in individual cases it will be possible to substantially extend the period. It is also a very important part of this law, and it is a part of advertising, which must be understandable and must, in essence, correspond to fundamental ethical principles. So this is a very complex adjustment, and I ask you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-005-065.u5	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. I have no application for the debate. This is the Member. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-005-065.u6	Good morning. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, dear colleagues, colleagues, allow me to comment on the Government's bill on medical devices. I am glad that this very important proposal has arrived in the House. We are in a bit of a time frame because the European regulation will come into force on 26 May this year and we do not have much time to complete the legislative process. As the Minister and rapporteur have already said, this is actually a transposition of the European regulation. The issue of medical devices is a rather complicated matter, because it is, of course, a very sensitive matter in terms of both patient safety and safety. I will not deal with all aspects of this bill here. I think we'll get to the most important ones on the health committee, which I assume will be the guarantee committee. I would therefore like to suspend only one part of this law, which I consider to be not entirely happily addressed, and I hope that we will come back to that again in the Health Committee. However, I believe that this issue needs to be mentioned here in plenary. [[11.40 hours]] The controversial issue is the legal obligation of manufacturers to provide medical devices with unique identification of means, so-called UDI, and their downstream obligations of distributors and, in particular, users, i.e. medical devices. We've been talking about this, too. There's no way I'm gonna compromise the duty itself. This should lead us to always know that the medical device we use in our patients is indeed the original, that it is not a forgery. So it's not about the identification itself, it's about the European regulation. What I consider to be not entirely happy and necessary is the timing, as proposed by the government, of the timing of implementation for each risk class. I will repeat what is in the European regulation. The European Regulation introduces the obligation by risk class as follows. For risk class 3 - those are the most risky medical devices - UDI will be used from 26 May 2021. However, if we introduce this in our national regulation with the period of effectiveness of this law, it would de facto have happened during this year. And there is also some nonsense going on here, and there is also some disrepansion because manufacturers will not yet be burdened with this obligation when it comes to the European regulation, but in national legislation, we would give our producers, but also distributors and healthcare facilities the obligation. With those medical facilities, it's about storing information about UDI. I consider that unnecessary and it will bring chaos into the system. Then risk class 2a and 2b. Here, according to the European regulation, UDI will apply from 26 May 2023, i.e. three years from the date of application of the European regulation. For risk class 1, UDI shall be used on 26 May 2025. So much for the European regulation. As I have already said, if we had approved a government proposal in the form it is presented, we would have introduced it with the law's time of effectiveness, which will lead to chaos in the system and, on the one hand, unnecessary costs and unnecessary work for both manufacturers, distributors and medical devices. Moreover, beyond the framework of the European regulation, it is necessary to mention that the Czech Republic has extended the obligation to keep UDI in risk classes 2a and 2b from the date of application of this law, while the European regulation does not expect to do so until May 2023. This makes a considerable expansion of porfolio medical devices, for which it is necessary to fulfil this obligation now, i.e. three years earlier. And here it needs to be said that this concerns the vast majority of medical devices, it is the broadest group, especially the 2a group. Just to give you an idea. The risk class 2a includes, for example, infusion ducts, a number of other devices such as urinary catheters, and so on. This means that they are medical devices that we meet in normal medical activities every day, in fact. And I'm asking why, in the case of injection needles, infusion sets, scalpels, electronic thermometers, tonometers, we're implementing this obligation with the time of the law's effectiveness. This will be a great burden not only for those distributors, they will have to deal with it in some way, but especially for our medical facilities. In each health facility, if this were to happen, they would have to strengthen the Department of Health Technology, and the administrative burden will be enormous for these health establishments. Of course, after these three years, it will not miss them anyway, but I ask why, at this point, health care establishments are struggling with increasing personnel, wage costs, but also with costs of enormous increases in energy prices, services, food, and so on. We all know that healthcare facilities are struggling with this, and we will give them this obligation much sooner than European regulations impose. Here I would like to appeal to the Minister to prepare transitional provisions during the legislative process, which will comply with the European regulation, and to adjust this to the time horizons as proposed by the European regulation. There is no way that we will jeopardize the safety of our patients; we will not cause chaos for manufacturers, distributors, and especially end-users, i.e. medical devices. And it's not just about hospitals, it's about outpatients. I think it would benefit everyone and that it is nothing against the merit of this law, which I personally consider to be very necessary. On behalf of the KDÚ-ČSL, I can say that we will support this government proposal until further reading and we are ready to cooperate on possible amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-005-065.u7	Thank you. Mr Kaňkovský was the only one registered. Anyone else reporting? I'm not reporting, I'm done with the debate. Is there interest in final words? The Minister is interested. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-005-065.u8	Thank you for the floor. I will make a very brief comment on Mr Kaňkovský. I don't think it's completely understood, the text of the law, that it's not in that text, that we actually come from the MDR as a regulation, and we don't lay down this obligation before the regulation says so. But maybe it's a question of texting the law. I'm sure I have no problem talking about it on the committee, where we can explain it in detail. But as I have information from my colleagues, it is not so that we set the obligation before the regulation. But we're going to have a debate about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-005-065.u9	Thank you. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. So we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. Once again, we will decide on the guarantee committee. The proposal by the President of the Chamber of Deputies is to order the motion to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else suggest a committee as a guarantee committee? No, we will therefore vote on the commandment of the Health Committee as a guarantee committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against, Voting number 195, 155 Members registered, for 127, against no one. The Guarantee Committee will be the Health Committee. We have no further proposal on the commandment to committees to discuss. Do any of the Members suggest another committee? He doesn't suggest, nor did he make a proposal to adjust the deadline. So I end the first reading of this proposal. The next point is
