ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u1	31. Government bill amending some tax laws and some other laws / House print 910/ - first reading I thank the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová for taking the floor at the rapporteur's table. I shall ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Miloslav Vostra. As soon as the noise in the House calms down, I will ask the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, under the authority of the Government, to state the 910 press, but I cannot do so yet, because there is still a lot of noise... Please, Madam Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I won't be long. Let me introduce to you this year as an annual bill, which amends some tax laws and some other laws, the so-called tax package, this time in 2021. The Act contains amendments to tax laws, other related laws of a procedural and competence nature, which are in the Gesture of the Ministry of Finance and which are due to take place with effect from 1 January 2021. The inclusion of these amendments in one legislation is basically repeated and this increases clarity for tax entities because they are not implemented by a number of separate laws, but are contained in the proposal for a single regulation. And now very briefly, which tax laws are being amended. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] First of all, I'll take it one step at a time. The amendment to the Local Charges Act contains a proposal - it will partially change the existing exemption of hospitalized persons to exemption from the subject matter of the fee and in this context extend this exemption to the guide of patients who need to be present with the patient all day if they are covered by public health insurance, in particular children under 6 years of age. The amendment to the Real Estate Tax Act proposes extending the jurisdiction of municipalities when determining the local coefficient and thus allowing the local coefficient to be set for a part of the municipality, in particular for the part of the municipality where business entities, for example, are located, without affecting the tax increase for citizens. The amendment to the Income Tax Act, which I consider to be the most important in the package, contains about four main areas of change. The most important and important is the so-called meal voucher flat-rate. There's been a lot of talk about him, and I'm going to disprove one of the basics--
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u3	Madam Secretary, I will interrupt you once more and ask the House for peace. If anyone is discussing a subject other than printing 910, please be in the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. A flat-rate meal means that under the same tax conditions, that means tax advantages, in addition to the benefits for racing meals or paper or electronic meal vouchers, a so-called meal-rate meal-off in cash is introduced. I suppose we're still going to have a debate about this, and there's been a lot of talk about it, so I'm ready for this debate. It is intended to simplify and, above all, make the issue of food stamps cheaper, because on food stamps companies pay 2% for it, they pay restaurants between 5 and 7 percent and basically a million employees in this country have no benefits. The other part concerns the abolition of the exemption applicable to income arising from bonds issued abroad by a taxpayer established in the Czech Republic, since it is directed only to a sub-group of taxpayers and is currently not fully justified. The exemption applies to income from bonds issued abroad by the Czech Republic, is maintained, and is extended to all government bonds generated by the resident or nonresident. The introduction of a new tax rule of controlled foreign companies, which responds to a commitment made by the Czech Republic in the Council of the European Union, and applies to controlled foreign companies which are tax residents, in jurisdiction which is called. the Union list of jurisdictions not collaborating in the tax field. And a comprehensive revision of the legislation on taxation of bonds-related income. Furthermore, the amendment to the Income Tax Act contains one temporary measure related to the occurrence of coronavirus. There is an extension of the possibility to recognise both the income tax base and the costs incurred for free non-cash transactions provided between March and May 2020 in relation to the occurrence of coronavirus. The reason for this is to support and simplify the administration of taxpayers, who helped solve current problems during the crisis period and provided their products or services free of charge to those in need, because in the ordinary regime these expenditures are tax-deprived. This is the equivalent of the current institute of tax-free parts of the tax base, respectively. items reducing the tax base in the form of free performance for public purposes. Compared to standard adjustment of the tax-free part of the tax base, respectively. the items reducing the tax base, however, there is no limit as to the amount of the transactions thus provided and neither the entities to which the transactions are provided. Another amendment is the amendment to budgetary rules and the amendment to budgetary rules for territorial budgets. It enables the organisational units of the State, the state contribution organisations and the local authorities to provide a cash contribution to their employees. Another is the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, where it is proposed in 2021, 2022 and 2023 to gradually increase the rates of excise duties on tobacco products, raw tobacco and heated tobacco products in order not to increase the price availability of these products to the final consumer, taking into account in particular the negative health and social consequences of their consumption. The amendment to the Alcohol Marking Act is another amendment which introduces, among other things, the differentiation of the deposit of liquor distributors, i.e. in practice of alcohol wholesalers, so as to introduce reduced bond bands facilitating the business of smaller operators in the spirit market while maintaining consistent supervision of this specific segment. Introduces e.g. the possibility of changing the registered person's obligation to label alcohol or alcohol distributors in such a way that registration can be transferred to a person close to the family business. Finally, the amendment to the Customs Act brings in particular changes in the field of reporting of external trade data within the Intrastat system, in particular part of the adaptation to the new European regulation, and the abolition of registration in one-off data reporting, the reformulation of the authorisation arrangements for access to the TIR system while maintaining current substantive parameters. The amendments to other laws outside the government of the Ministry of Finance mainly govern the issue of so-called. divided administration, i.e. the procedure whereby customs offices ensure the payment of cash transactions imposed by other authorities under the tax arrangements. A classic example is the fines imposed by the police. In particular, it is a transfer to customs offices, the powers to enforce fines for offences in some cases and the alignment of certain special laws with the current big amendment to the tax code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u5	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová for her opening statement. I shall ask the rapporteur, Mrs Miloslava Vostroa, for the opening words. Also, before I give you my word, Madame, I will ask the House once again for peace of mind! Please, colleagues and colleagues, if you are really discussing anything other than printing 910, please in the foyer! I think I've left enough time at the last vote to allow all those interested to come back from the front door to vote. I don't know if I should name you individually... Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u6	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I don't think there's much point in repeating what the Secretary of Finance said here. However, let me inform you that as far as this package is concerned, it affects about 30 existing laws. But I'd say most of them, over 15, are minimal hits. It is a group of laws, where it is proposed to adjust the competence and procedural aspects of the exercise of the powers of a department other than the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Finance. Customs. It is de facto an extension of the scope of the Customs Administration to an area where it has not yet had it. So that's one group of these laws. Another group then consists of laws whose administrative gesture is also not the Ministry of Finance. And even here, there are very little changes. Then there is a group of laws with changes that the Minister has already mentioned. And that's where they're designed, I'd say, substantial changes, for example. real estate tax, or the Local Charges Act, as well as extensive changes relating to the Income Tax Act. The secretary here said the proposed changes in her opening words, so I'm not going to repeat it here. She also mentioned the law on the mandatory marking of alcohol, and then I would say about the almost annual festival on the increase in excise duty on tobacco and cigarettes, the amendment on excise duties. I think there will certainly be a debate on this within the budget committee, because there are a few topics that I think they need to discuss, whether it is the already mentioned meal voucher, but I think also regarding for example. increasing the excise duty that there will also be a discussion on this subject. So, as rapporteur, I recommend we let this press go to second reading, and I certainly don't intend to draw up my intelligence report here right now. And to all who listened to me, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Petr Dolínek is the first Member to enter. Before I give him my word, I state my apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. From 16.30 to the end of the day, Vice-President Petr Fiala apologizes. And I will try to give you peace of mind in the Chamber, as well. You were exemplary when she spoke both to the Vice-President of the Government and to the rapporteur, and you certainly deserve attention. I repeat again, colleagues, if you are discussing a subject other than the 910 press, please in the foyer! It's really loud in here. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice Prime Minister, we're only talking about taxes, so why should there be peace in the hall, right? I mean, taxes are secondary. It divides better than it gets, so of course I understand. I would like to thank you for the complexity of the proposal. It is always good to thank you before criticizing, because I think that a number of points, as the rapporteur has pierced, are justified and there are little things or even bigger things that should be dealt with. But as the Vice Prime Minister probably suspects, a slight split, and now I don't mean coalition, but more of a point of view, because the coalition doesn't have a problem with that, it's about food stamps. After all, another subject in the House was talking about this. And I don't want it to be a collapsing ground today, please. I will not even put a point here today, because I think that, on the contrary, the penzum of the things that have been said here is precisely appropriate for expert committees where it is appropriate to discuss this. [[16.30 hours]] I saw that you showed, virtually. your team, a series of data that shows why you decided to take that step. But I don't think all things always have to be done right away. I don't think that step to cancel the food stamps, or the whole system, I'm sorry, I don't mean to say they're gonna cancel, but they're gonna offer a different system to an employer than those food stamps is very tempting. And I think, of course, at a time when each company will now be looking for moments to save, how to save, what to do, so it will be very tempting to go to another system, actually not allowing employees to have food in a given place or to have the food system as it was used to, and actually to go to some other system, which can then also be gripped in the future. I think the food system, although there are some ills, we can say abuse, traders sell other goods for it, whether it's tobacco products, alcohol and so on, is a system that's not ideal, but it's a system that guarantees that a lot of people - it's not only in Prague, but it's mainly in other villages - they really have decided that I have a meal ticket, I go somewhere for lunch, I pay for a drink, but I'm able to eat for it and I'm going to eat. And the moment those things are abolished by the employer because it is not chosen by the employee, but by the employer, it may weaken the fact that the basic habits that are suitable for the employees can be abolished. So I am here to advise that I will certainly welcome the debate on this subject. I think this is a step that is not appropriate at the moment, and I am going to ask the Vice Prime Minister to take advantage of this in the coming weeks and to make a broader session for Members of the committees concerned, whether it be economic, budgetary and other, so that we have a chance to talk about it both with employees' representatives and employers and the Ministry of Finance and to open up a platform where we can go through this debate again, because I think it is premature and that it may be good for employers and not for employees, because the employee has the confidence that he thinks about it, and that when he does his work eight and a half, ten and a half hours, twelve and a half hours a day, so that he has the background in the company, and I fear that this step will not lead to the background, on the contrary, it will lead to the interference of the background. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u9	I thank Mr Petr Dolínek. Now, in the general debate, Mr Luzar, Mikuláš Ferjenčík will prepare himself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, there will probably be a lot of words about these meal vouchers, but I want to draw attention to one issue that is and which is certainly turning to the employees, but also to employers. How does racing meals work today, or generally eating employees? At the time, it was by law that an employee must be able to eat and be able to eat hot food. This was gradually abolished, and it went to the goodwill of the agreement between the employer and the employee to find their position as part of the work-time adjustment and the possibility of eating. I'm not gonna be here to remember the whole history that was allowed, then canceled, and how the employee benefits were downgraded, so that they would eventually remain one particular benefit, a benefit in the form of food stamps. But not all of them have food stamps, as they rightly said here. There are companies here that have their own racing meals. Of course, it takes some expense, but it probably paid off the big businesses that they had their own meals. Will it pay them even now, so if the pressure to get employees some, in quotation marks, imaginary contribution to salary and wages, so that they can say, for us, it's better to get the money in cash and somehow secure the food? So the circle of problems related to racing eating in general at the expense of the employee and the advantage for employers. The second group of employees are those who really take the food stamps, who get them and who can buy food for them. They use them mostly, and now I say, to pay and to pay, because we must not forget a large army of civil servants who may not have the option to eat other meals, so once lunch breaks are announced, most of the state authorities go to the nearest restaurants to eat. Will they continue to use it to keep their food warm? Or does it start to dominate what we saw in Charlie Chaplin movies, when everyone got their food delivery guy and went to heat up their food? Won't it declassify the employees in a way that way unless they're on a box diet and they're carrying the food in those boxes, or if they're not on a prescribed diet by a doctor and they're having this diet food here? Paradoxically, many restaurants make it possible for these employees to cook diet meals and prepare a healthy diet so that they can have it. Those are all the circuits we're not dealing with right now. We're dealing with a tax problem. We want... and what do we want to achieve? We want to save money. Madam Secretary correctly said, two percent, five percent, seven percent escape. But we don't know how to deal with leaks other than to cancel the service itself? Have we tried to make restrictions? Did we try to set the maximum possible profit here from these operations, the financial gain that the different card, meal voucher and other companies have? Did we do price regulation? Madam Secretary is right to point out that we don't want to interrupt. We want to give free will to decide. Is it really free will? And if this is really meant as free will, then will there be a possibility in the bill that the union organization must agree with which employer, if they agree to this procedure? Or is it just the will of an employer who is stronger and decisive in the relationship with an employee? There'll be a chance to say, but we don't want to? And will anybody even consider it? And here's where the confusion stays. We had the opportunity in our club KSČM to talk to trade unions, which, on the contrary, presented completely relevant and clear arguments on the table and said, but we see this risk, this risk. And no one can answer that. And we're afraid of it. And even these arguments must be heard and I assume that they will be heard in the debate. There was a subject here for a wider discussion, but I would like the wider discussion to include trade unions and others. Although negotiations have taken place, many questions remain unexplained and unsolved. And it's always operating on how it's actually a certain volunteering. We're not interrupting, we're leaving a choice. But using that option will be strictly up to the employer's will, as he decides. Another point which is in this tax package and which may remain a bit off, and I would argue that I would ask the Minister not to use the argument of health. There is talk of tobacco tax and heated tobacco tax and alcohol tax. We've been discussing tobacco tax here, and we've been discussing smoking bans, if you remember the debate. Here I point out that in this case I'm biased as a smoker, of course in this view you don't have to take my opinion as objective, yes, it's subjective, but I look at the fact that we've increased quite significantly these commodities, and it's operating again that it's for health. But I would always like to see the results, the outputs, as statistically managed to reduce the number of smokers in the Czech Republic, reduce deaths from smoking diseases and these things that have been operated on. Therefore, if we are using the argument "it is a matter of health" in the tax package, let us try to put the arguments on one another, so that we know where we stand. And I don't think the statistics will be what we were told when we were discussing the smoking ban law. But this isn't the case, we're on the tax package. Therefore, I would only like not to use this argument, for it is for health. As far as alcohol tax is concerned, remember how we approved the previous tax packages, where the alcohol tax also appeared. We have alcohol here that's favored - it's wine. We are all able to agree that we have regions, mainly Moravian, which are big wine producers, and we favour them in a certain way. No one's gonna mind. We all like good Moravian wine. The last period the government took into account the second Czech phenomenon - beer. And we lower the pubs and allow them, and breweries grow like mushrooms after rain. [[16.40 hours]] There remains the last alcohol that we have actually put at a disadvantage in the previous tax package against these others in the context of competition, and that is so-called hard alcohol or high-percent alcohol. And once again, we remain in debt to carry out an evaluation of how far these tax regulations affect the consumption here, affecting the market for these commodities. And now, I don't want to defend either type of alcohol, but I think we're moving things around a little bit under the impression of maybe some patriotism - Moravian wine, Czech beer. But we also have Moravian slivovitz and we should finally get numbers on the table that will clearly tell what the advantage or disadvantage of the market in these commodities looks like before we embark on any tax adjustments on this matter. Therefore, I would like to propose that this press should also be directed to the Economic Committee, so that we can look at these analyses also from the point of view of how they affect the functioning of these industries in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u11	I thank Mr Leo Luzar. He raised three factual points, first Jiří Bláha's colleague, then Miroslav Kalousek and Vlastimil Válek, so now he has the floor on the factual remark of colleague Bláha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken notes about food stamps, which my colleague here has not questioned, but raised topics. So, through Mr President, I would like to say first of all, thank you to the Minister for raising the food stamps. And believe me, if anyone knows anything about food stamps, without pride, without pride, I come into contact with them every day in all the forms they have. And if today we're worried about the end of the race meal, then in the racing diet, if the kitchen is right in the factories, they definitely don't use food stamps, because they have no reason to pay food stamps to their employees for cooking, so we don't have to worry about this. But what the consequences will be is that entrepreneurs will stop being afraid to raise the money they spend on their employees today, just for the simple reason that they won't have to pay for giving them more money on food-based, food-based companies, 1 to 4 percent for providing food-based meals. But be careful, we have the cost of the selection and it's much higher, it's in the order of 10 percent. And I'll tell you why right now, I have a little more time. One. About 6 percent will choose a meal voucher company, but then it costs you the handling work of people who accept for meal vouchers, count software upgrades, buy food vouchers, and someone will process it, someone has to take it to the post office, wrap it in a paid envelope, it all costs money, costs, and especially time. So I think that putting in place what the Minister is proposing will just save us the resources to get a lot more workers. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u13	Mr. Ambassador, the time for a point of fact is over. Don't bother me. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek's factual comment, a colleague of Mr Válek will be prepared. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, meal vouchers belong to a large set of employee benefits, which in itself is worth a long discussion. The numbers are very simple. On the one hand, there are about 5 million employers and employees who are interested in recognizing each other's benefits at tax discounts, because it applies not only to the 5 million of these sets, but to 10 million of them all. On the other hand, there are 5 million other people who are not employees, employers, they are pensioners, students, anyone else who logically cares that they should contribute to their mutual benefits. Why should they contribute to this? That is a logical question and a long discussion. I don't want to open this discussion right now, we've been having it for a long time. But if, as part of the benefits, the employer - an employee who pays the other 5 million who have nothing to do with it, billions of them still have nothing to do with it, they only parasite it, they feed on it, so while I consider the Madam Secretary's proposal to be half-assed, and I once tried in vain to push through the whole, but if I didn't make the whole thing in vain, I'd be happy to get half-assed and the parasites stop feeding on it. And I don't care if they sponsor the trade union or the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. They just feed on it completely senseless, and there's no reason to add to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u15	Mr. Ambassador, the time has ended for a point of fact. Mr Válek's factual comment now, will be prepared by Leo Luzar, also with a factual remark. My colleague Ferjenčík is very understanding. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I will just allow myself a brief and brief comment on what has been said here by my previous speaker, Mr Luzar, through Mr President. Those impacts, say, smoking bans and the reduction of the number of smokers on health are quite delayed, which we would have to adopt 20 years ago in order to have some statistical analysis that will have relevant results. He doesn't just affect lung cancer, it's on a number of other diseases. And I would like to say a specific example, and by this way I would like to thank the Ministry of Health, although the Minister is not here right now, because I think that one of the side effects of smoking being seen as a very risk factor is also a programme that has been preparing the Ministry of Health for two years with a number of professional companies, and that is a screening program, or a pseudoscreening program, so far a pilot, for early detection of lung cancer. We're at one of the first places with lung cancer. I see, through the President, Professor Vyzula. I think he'll support everything I say. I think that Professor Dušek's analysis of the cancer registry for decades would clearly tell you that what we are about to adopt now, as far as any law will lead to a reduction in the number of smokers and a reduction in the smoking capacity of the Czech population, will have an effect, let's say, in 20 years, with this delay, that's just how it is. I understand that it may not be easy for many of us to accept the fact that we are adopting a law whose effect we will not know during the parliamentary term, but it is a reality that there is a delay in health intervention in terms of the health of the population. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u17	I thank you for keeping time on a point of fact. Another factual comment by colleague Leo Luzar and still prepared by colleague Ferjenčík. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u18	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very short. I may surprisingly thank my predecessor for saying what he said. Because at the time of the smoking ban, we were persuaded by arguments, numbers that were not older than perhaps a year, as we immediately see the health benefits, how much heart disease and other diseases fell and so on. The Minister of Health showed us here, it was in the papers. None of the experts said they were chimeras and that we had to wait maybe 20, maybe 30 years. But there are already states that have twenty, thirty of these restrictions, and I would like to know in comparison whether they are relevant or not. But this wasn't the subject that provoked me. Of course, I was logically provoked by my colleague Kalousek by his inappropriate remark about some efforts that the KSČM supports the food business. On the contrary, my colleague, we are proud supporters of the union's opinion, because we are in agreement with them, with their concerns about the food-borne business. And it's business. But I ask, what did you do as Minister of Finance? What did the following finance ministers do to keep this business from happening? How did you regulate these meal vouchers? Is it normal to have interest, to have fees? How did you do that? You let it go so they could take the 10, 20, 30 percent so they could take the money out of it. And that's the mistake. And now they say, "Here it is, it's a problem, they're taking terrible money, so let's cancel it." So let's cancel the banks because they're taking terrible money at people's interest. Let's leave one central bank, let's leave it under state control, keep an eye on it. It's the same argument, sir. You can't do that. Try to think about it, too. And I'm really proud that the KSČM here defends the interests of the unionists, because the last beatings on this proposal can be those who are employees who can eat warmly because of the food stamps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. A real comment by Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u20	I'm just going to respond very briefly to the previous speaker. I was quick to google whether Mr Luzar was by any chance a third, fourth term. It's not like that. So, by your means, Mr President, I just want us to freshen up, and I was not here during that parliamentary term when the government was with the participation of the TOP 09, but still, just like you weren't then, I remember it was Mr Kalousek who advocated the abolition of food stamps and replacing them with flat rates. It just wants to find this information, maybe somewhere, refresh your memory, and then work with it, too, before you perform here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jiří Bláha, on the point of fact, a colleague of Ferjenčík on the waiting list. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u22	I'll be very quick. I would like to thank everyone once again for supporting meal vouchers, and I hope that this will happen, that they will be canceled or not cancelled, but there will be an alternative, yes, exactly, an alternative that employers will be able to make decisions in agreement with employees. And I'd like to give you one more topic that I think is just as sucking money out of all of us, and that's card payment. Today, every company accepting payments pays from 1,2 % but also up to 3 percent for payment by credit card. So the fact that you're going to my bakery with a card means that I, or the people concerned, are losing a substantial amount of money. And let me give you an example. My company costs a cash withdrawal, which makes a month 16 million, 50,000 crowns. If it all happens through a card, it'll cost me 300,000 crowns a month. So this is the offer of banks today, how they offer their services, how they suck money out of companies and those who use cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And we're going back to proper applications. Now, Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Věra Kovářová will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with the comments of the pirát on meal vouchers. We agree with the proposal to introduce the freedom of choice between a meal voucher in the framework of a tax discount or the choice that paper meal vouchers will continue to be made. After all, we think that this competition will contribute to the fact that meal voucher companies offer a better product than a product where the margin is about 10 percent, which we think is completely ineffective. In fact, a parallel currency has been introduced, which is also being purchased at 85 percent of the value in various excluded localities, and the whole system is failing. For this reason, we welcome the return of some ratio and lead to a real reduction in labour taxation. We also welcome the fact that the Ministry has copied the opposition proposal and has begun to consider excise duty on tobacco products in the longer term and there is some long-term plan for tax increases, so there will not be such a big leap, while manufacturers can prepare themselves for what it should look like in the future. It's already been suggested by a colleague of Stanjura, I believe, in discussing the last tax package, and it made sense. I am so glad that the government has taken over this idea and it will at least happen in the future. On the other hand, when taxes rise and argue with inflation and the availability of cigarettes, I would like to remind myself of one thing where the government keeps forgetting that there is inflation, and that is a discount on the taxpayer. It's constantly operated on by inflation when it's convenient when cigarettes get expensive. But in order to operate with inflation, when it doesn't suit the state, it means that we are constantly growing real labor taxation, because the discount on the taxpayer is losing meaning through inflation, so it is not done. So I think that the taxation of cigarettes creates room for us to valorize the taxpayer's discount, some amount that people could pay about CZK 2,000 a year on taxes less, because this is also subject to inflation. And now it's an opportunity. So we will certainly also make amendments in this sense. We think that the taxation of work in our country is extremely high and needs to be dealt with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u25	Thank you, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Věra Kovářová is now the last one to be logged in to the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u26	Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary, let me also comment on the tax package for STAN. I would have expected it not to be a tax package in this situation, but it would be some kind of tax package. This reminds me more of a pel-mel - we take one tax, we raise it, then we forgive something. In short, and well, I might ask what the purpose of this tax package is. So is it health protection? Or an increase in income? Or are we gonna let someone get their lunch money? Well, that's my main question. On the other hand, I must say that, in general, we do not have any reservations about individual points. For example, when we look at reliefs for parents of hospitalized children, that means forgiveness of local fees, we cannot agree with that. We also agree with this as regards the eligibility of expenditure in the fight against coronavirus. The question of introducing the differentiation of the bond provided by alcohol distributors, which is intended to allow access to smaller distributors, yes, we also cannot agree to anything other than that. Of course, then we have an interesting provision here, and this concerns property tax. There we welcome the possibility that municipalities will be able to apply a different coefficient in different parts of the municipality. On the other hand, I would assume that the possibility of acquiescing property tax has recently been introduced, but it is now said that, on the contrary, it is possible to burden entrepreneurs or factories that pollute the air even more, with comments that municipalities do not take advantage of the increase in this local coefficient, that they are taking advantage of it very rarely, that they do not dare. [[Minister's response from the right.]] It's not so... Well, you said that, Madam Secretary. You've repeated it several times. I merely point out that the municipalities are using it, that it is not easy to enforce it and also to defend it in front of the citizens, because if you raise the coefficient five times, you must clearly tell the citizens why you are doing this, what you are using it for, and there is a feedback check on whether or not the investment to which it was intended was actually made, whether or not the municipality's management complied with it. So, just carefully with such expressions, because a number of municipalities around large cities have reached out to this measure, precisely for the purpose of catching up on the lack of civic amenities. Then we also have an interesting issue and this is an increase in excise duty on cigarettes. You're saying it's to protect people's health. We don't have a problem with that. We agree. On the other hand, if the government says people's health needs to be cared for, I would assume that the increased collection, if it comes from excise duty, will be directed right into prevention. And I firmly believe that this will be the case in the draft budget for 2021, that there will be an increase in expenditure precisely in relation to prevention. With regard to the selection that you are stating could increase the contribution of 2 billion, I merely note that this may not be the case, because the coronation showed that if the Němec and Rakušan who bought cigarettes in the Czech Republic could not come here, the blackout was significant. I recorded a number that involved a blackout of 60 million cigarettes. I don't know how many boxes and money it was. But in any case, these groups will buy cigarettes with an excise tax benefit of about 23 billion. So if the price of the box increases too much, it may actually happen that they will not go to the Czech Republic to buy cheaper cigarettes. In addition, Czech citizens can go to Slovakia and Poland for cheaper cigarettes. I mean, I don't really like the contribution you're making here, the $2 billion, not that I'm questioning the increase in excise duty on cigarettes or cigarettes. raw tobacco. [[17,00 hours]] And then there's this season's hit, which I think took more time than a budget deficit of half a trillion crowns, and that's a meal breaker. I must say that introducing the possibility of a meal voucher beside food stamps, I consider it not entirely a bad proposal. Food stamps are not interrupted, Czech citizens are used to it, but of course we give employers a choice of what benefit to provide employees, and it is clear that the million employees who do not have the opportunity to receive food stamps were actually disadvantaged. I don't want to debate whether people are really going to lunch here or not, if they just get money, I think it's only going to show time, and that a little competition is also not going to hurt those meal voucher companies in the sense of speeding up, for example. payments when paid by the customer, speed up payments for the providing service. So let me sum it up. I think that this package, indeed a package, is not a package, as I would expect, we will release it to second reading and save the detailed debate for the Committee on Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. That was the last logged in so far, but Mr Vojtěch Munzar is reporting from the post. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Hello again, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary. The trap of such tax packages is that it contains things that are positive from our point of view, then of course it contains points that are neutral, but unfortunately also things that are not so positive and for which we have some reservations. Of course, we welcome, like Mrs Kovářová, for example. forgiveness of local fees for children's parents in healthy stays or recognition of costs associated with coronavirus. However, the fact that the proposal amends a total of 30 laws, so Mrs Kovářová, by your means, said here without grace and storage, Mr Dolínek welcomed it here, virtually. pel-mel, from my point of view, there really is no good way to decide on individual matters, because one negative thing can really limit a positive vote to the whole package. I have to say, it's definitely not something we should welcome to present to us, this tax package in which you want to change 30 laws. And we are not saying this ourselves, so did the Prime Minister, who gave the following opinion on this - I will read it to you with permission, colleagues: It does not contribute to the clarification of the proposed changes and makes it difficult for those who are to judge or approve such amendments. Since the amendments proposed in each amendment are neither intended for the same addressee in a number of cases, the benefit of the promoter of the procedure chosen cannot be seen either from the point of view of the addressees of the proposed legislation. And I would like one more quote that you, Madam Secretary, should know in the government, and that is the government's programming statement, where you promised to promote a stable and predictable tax environment, that changes to the tax system will be implemented by only a few comprehensive amendments, with sufficient delay in efficiency. - I have to say, it's not like we've been here for six months if we're not discussing some tax package, some pel-mel ideas that you've developed in the Ministry, but from my point of view it has no long-term idea, it has no long-term concept, and it has nothing to do with the management of the state in the long term. Let me remind you of some of your remarks, which are from the Prime Minister's mouth and yours, and especially the ANO programme for the 2017 parliamentary elections: We will not raise taxes, on the contrary, we will reduce them. Even the Prime Minister said, "Don't scare people! We're not raising any taxes. Nevertheless, this tax package repeatedly proposes an increase in excise duty on tobacco. You have already approved the increase in excise duty on tobacco in the last tax package and our MP club and our club chairman, Mr Stanjura, here proposed a gradual increase, respectively. the gradual distribution of this increase so that there is some stability, so that one can also assess whether the behaviour of consumers has really changed as you may expect in the faith, or whether the effects were really what you expected. So my question, Madam Secretary, to you is what the impact of the last increase in excise duties on consumer behaviour has been, whether or not tobacco consumption has really decreased, if you can document any figures, if it really isn't just faith. I'm worried that it's just trying to find resources again and grope the state's hands in the taxpayers' pocket. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u29	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Václav Votava is registered from the seat. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u30	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I remember a lot already in the Chamber of Deputies, because I have spent quite a long time here, I remember how Kalousek had tried to cancel the meal vouchers - it never happened. There was a big discussion about food stamps. Just so we're clear, I'm not lobbying at all for meal vouchers, I have nothing to do with them, but the food ticket, as it is in its name, is eating. I have to admit, I have a problem with the double-track thing that's being proposed here by the Treasury, a hybrid that's going to be here like meal vouchers, so that there's going to be a meal plan here, which, by the way, is going to have an impact on the state budget of 10 billion, maybe more, some of these analyses are even talking about 20, maybe even more billion crowns. Well, let's believe it or not, it's definitely gonna have an impact on the state budget. I know it's often criticized, and it's the right thing to do, that those food stamps have a fairly high margin. But this can be regulated in some way, it can be defined by some margin line, such that it is, of course, acceptable, effective and justified. It must also be taken into account that the meal voucher will be part of the wage, free of taxes, exempt from income tax, exempt from social and health insurance. So it will be part of a wage that will not be taxed. And I won't be surprised at some employers, even though it's wrong, of course, that they're gonna be a little tempted to think of it as part of the wage themselves, in the sense that the employees will say, "I don't have to raise your fee anymore, you've already gotten a raise. And I think it's wrong. I think it's possible, as far as the food stamps are concerned, to put things in order. First of all, so that food stamps really work to do what they're supposed to do to eat, so that they can't be bought alcohol or other things that have more or less nothing to do with eating. Perhaps one such route is the digitization of the food stamps that are being discussed and not yet introduced, of course. So, of course, the opinions on canceling food stamps or suppressing food stamps are different here, I see. I don't think the food stamps should be canceled, but it should be done in order. [[17.10 hours]] And maybe one more such, I don't want to say nudge the secretary, but we're introducing a new tax exemption here, Madam Secretary. And when I tabled an amendment regarding the abolition of the property acquisition tax in the sense that the tax advantage should also be abolished, that is, the possibility to deduct interest paid from the tax base, you argued that we would cancel one exception. We'll cancel one exception, and we'll introduce another. Well, that seems a little illogical to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u31	Thank you, too. Mr Jiří Bláha, with a factual comment, came forward. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u32	Still unhappy food stamps! I would just like to say to everyone that believe that most employers treat food stamps as a benefit they pay. It's just a normal part. I want to give this employee as many benefits as possible, so one of those benefits is food stamps. And it's only because it's untaxed money and it's the employees. It's too bad the employee has to participate in the price of the meal ticket. The same is true of Flexi Passy, because each employer has the opportunity to give another unpaid amount to employees up to 20,000 a year, and he can divide it as he wishes. I do it for, like, $2,000 a month. So that's how most employers approach it. And don't you believe that we're gonna make peace when we put in place the digitalization of food stamps, because again, who's gonna make money? They're gonna make money from the banks that are gonna tear it down for trading through that bank because you have to trade it through the terminal. You either buy the terminal and pay, or you pay the bank for the transactions. And it's simple. The lower the transaction, the more the bank wants the fees. So then you won't just pay the food service company, but you'll also pay the bank that brokers it. So just think about all the costs that are around. Someone's got to check it out at the firm again, so the easiest thing is to give the employee the money and use it all you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u33	Thank you. At this point, I do not see anyone enrolled in the general debate, I am ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in any final words. Madam Secretary is interested. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I promise I won't be long, the debate hasn't been long either. Well, I've been counting on this House of Deputies to cheat on a meal break for a long time in public debate, but I just didn't know where it was coming from. This time from the left. So let's say what a meal break is. But I'm not surprised, because I've been through all the debates with all the unions, chambers, unionists, and I know who's the only one against the meal break. They're unionists, let's face it, which is all the more interesting that they should defend the interests of the million employees who have no food benefit today. And that is not the introduction of another exception, Mr Votava, that is simply, on the contrary, the highly selective regime caused by meal vouchers reduces other possibilities and other modifications. Food stamps are something that basically means that five or six foreign companies that make dividends abroad have built their business on an excavated tax exemption. But we're not suggesting we cancel their business. If anyone wants to have food stamps, I say if they're on them, keep them on. It's up to them. Let's leave them to the companies, and they're wise enough to decide whether they want a race meal or whether they want food stamps in any form - paper, electronic, or food stamps. And what made me feel quite elevated, Mr. Votava. I think it was you, if it wasn't, so I'm sorry, I've already heard the argument from ČMKOS, it's raised me that we suspect primarily our businessmen and our companies that they're gonna rob those employees, they're gonna basically tell them, so here's 1,100 or 1,200 food stamps, so we're gonna lower your pay. Perhaps it would have to be an amendment to the treaty. It's a bilateral legal act, they'd have to make a deal. We have some unions, and we have some kind of social reconciliation. No way! So we're going to suspect them of this? We're just saying, just small and medium-sized companies don't have the two percent minimum that has to go to the food stamps companies. For what? For printing out their papers, and for building a business on it. And the restaurant, by the way, I have detailed analyses that have worked out expert associations that are very supportive, and they say that only 15 percent of people eat food stamps in restaurants. Other food stamps are spent in supermarkets. So what kind of hot food? And you know why? Because a whole group of restaurants don't take food stamps because they don't want to pay a margin of 5 to 7 percent. I spoke to a number of them on each of my trips, and of course I have statistics and analyses from the Association of Restaurants and Dining Rooms, SOCR, Chamber of Commerce. I attended all the different public meetings on this subject. And those 10 to 20 billion, we have calculated how much impact it is. It's about 1.5 billion in the state budget, because the 10 to 20 billion that count the dietary companies, I've also seen it, so it's based on the benefits that are in the budget today, because of course it's tax-recognizable and it's tax-free. That means all we want these companies to have a choice and to get a chance at the million employees who have nothing at all on exactly the same terms. They'll just get a paycheck, and then they'll get a meal break, which will be exempt from income tax, from social, from health, and the company that pays for it just puts this meal break into expenses. That's exactly the same benefit, it's just not going to pay that 2 percent or 5 to 7 percent in restaurants. He'll fail in 150 miles a year. Food stamps! I don't know if you've ever taken food stamps. I used to be a clerk. I've never been able to just spend it at the end of the year. They've always failed. The 150 miles. He's gonna stay with those food stamps, not those people. This is not going to happen simply at a cash flat. But again, we're not interrupting anything. We're leaving all this in the selection of the individual companies. And you want to tell me, please, that people are resigning to their basic human need, such as food, just because they don't get the paperwork, that they stop eating, that they smoke the money? That's what you're telling me when, according to statistics from the Czech Statistical Office, people spend much more on food than they get on food stamps. So where are the arguments? I've had all these discussions, and I'm ready to go through them, provided that either the budget committee or, possibly, the economic committee, I don't know what you're voting for here, but everyone will be invited to the debate. All of you! Not just unionists. That there will be invited SOCR, Association of Restaurants and Dining Rooms, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Tax Advisors and others. Everyone, have them invited. Whether everyone can openly say what they have to say and whether they simply approve it or not. If nobody cares, here's the option, they'll keep the food stamps, won't they? Who's afraid of what? He's got nothing to worry about. [[17.20 hours]] If this business is so great, if it's really why people eat hot food, I don't believe it. It's just another one, as one of you said, it's another currency that's used differently. I mean, let's face it, we know that these food stamps come from where they don't just change in restaurants. So I've had about six months of these debates and all the different attacks and all the different statistics and calculations behind which the food stamps companies are behind. I understand, but I'm convinced of everything. I was open to debate. I've been debating with everyone who wanted to debate. And I'll debate. But I'm convinced that's just the right thing to do. Plus, he gives freedom. And that's all that matters. So much for a meal break. And I wouldn't be able to say much about the package. Mr. Munzar, well, this is our eternal dispute with the Legislative Council of the Government. You know we do these packages every year. There's no red thread between those tax laws. That's where it's going to be in one package, so it just doesn't have to be x of different efficiency if something gets late. We have repeatedly asked the Ministry of Finance for years to change the Government Legislative Council's rules of procedure, and we will continue to ask. It's just a technical and theoretical dispute. Of course, there are so many laws because tax laws are crucial. But then there's a whole series of jurisdictional and procedural laws that you have to change because it has a link to those key tax laws. Then I'll just explain it to you. As far as real estate tax is concerned, Mrs Kovářová, very few municipalities, she is not here, never mind, taking advantage of the possibility of coefficients. I had it sent quickly, it's about 500 to 600 municipalities, which is one tenth, so they're taking very little advantage of it. And the fact that we put the liberation into the crisis package and put the possibility here to change the coefficient for part of the community, otherwise it was a demand for a whole series of mayors. It wasn't because we looked out the window at the Treasury Department, but because the request was here. And we put the liberation into crisis because the crisis has just brought demands for possible liberation. And as far as excise duty on cigarettes is concerned, the alcohol is not there this time, cigarettes, I look to the left, so more or less we have complied with the request that was made not only here from the Chamber of Deputies, but also from tobacco companies. We, of course, consulted them to do so, because we had to make the jumping increase last year because we were in a situation where we were already in breach of the EU directive. And it really was a leap after many years. And we don't want to do that again. That's why we set it to be predictable, for three years, the increase as it's prepared. I hope I haven't forgotten anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u35	Well, thank you, Madam Secretary. I would ask my esteemed colleagues in the Chamber to keep their voice down, because at some point it was no longer quite bearable, but I did not want to interrupt the Minister. I do not see anybody logged in with priority rights because, I warn you, we have closed the general debate and therefore factual remarks are not possible. I have called my colleagues from the lobby, and we will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone, I'll vote. I've started the vote. I ask who is in favour of the commandment of this proposal as a guarantee committee to the Committee on Budgets. Who's against it? Voting order number 16, 179 Members and Members signed in for 141, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion as a guarantee committee to the Committee on Budgets. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees? Member Luzar. And I'll ask for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u36	Mr President, thank you. I will repeat my proposal from the general debate. I suggest we assign it to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u37	I didn't understand a word. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u38	I suggest we assign it to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-004-031.u39	The Economic Committee. Another suggestion? I see no one, we will vote on the commandment to the Economic Committee as the next committee. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 17, 181 Members and Members signed in, for 86, against 7. The motion was denied. This concludes the first reading of this law. Thank you, Minister, thank you, rapporteur. We will proceed to discuss the next point and that is
