ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-003-272.u1	272. Members of Vít Kaňkovský, Václav Klaus, Pavla Golasowská, Marian Jurečka, Pavel Bělobrádek, Stanislav Juránek, Ondřej Benešík, Jan Čižinský, Marek Výborný, Jan Bartošek and Jiří Mihola for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 329/2011 Coll., on the provision of benefits to persons with disabilities and on the amendment of related laws, as amended /German press 896/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. We have received the Government's position as House Press 896/1, and I ask that Mr Vít Kaňkovský, on behalf of the petitioner, state the proposal to which I am giving the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-003-272.u2	Good evening. Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, I will try to be brief, because I, too, would like to return to the strategic point concerning the energy law and the completion of Dukovan, which is also a very important topic for my mother region, Vysočina Region. Let me introduce you to the reasons for submitting an amendment to the Act on granting benefits to persons with disabilities, it is the House Press 896. I would like to mention that this bill was created on the basis of the incentives of the disabled themselves and, in particular, those who have a permanently significant disability. The legislative basis for this was given by the National Council of Persons with Disabilities, and then we modified the proposal, and at one stage we consulted with the MPSV. The main aim of this amendment is to clarify and simplify the process of re-issue of the licence to a disabled person and to eliminate the current situation, where the process of exchange of a disabled person's licence is not treated uniformly within the Czech Republic. The second ambition, which I think is even more important, is to make it legislatively clear to define the disability that will qualify for a disability card without a time limit. Just statistically. There are about 325 thousand in the Czech Republic at the moment. of which about 80 per cent are granted with no time limit, i.e. permanent, and about 65 thousand. people have time constraints. The ambition of this bill is actually in three areas. The first is to adapt Section 5 of Section 35 to clearly define medical conditions in which the person with disabilities is entitled without a time limit. We often find that patients with the same diagnosis and the same functional limitations, but from different regions, sometimes who are granted the right without a time limit, and sometimes who have to walk after about ten years when they usually have the licence, have repeated medical examinations. We think it is good that this is clearly defined in the law, or in the annex to the law in the form of an implementing regulation. I think it will remove a certain sense of injustice that some of these people are experiencing, and that this should be clearly declared in this. The second ambition of this bill is to adjust the conditions when the card itself is exchanged. Because one thing is entitled to a disability card and the other is the validity of the card, the own card as a public document. At the moment it is exchanged in adults after ten years to restore biometric data, and in children under 18 it is exchanged once every five years. We believe that there is a need to meet the disabled here too and to simplify the process as much as possible. If anyone already granted an unlimited licence as such, we are convinced that it is possible to automate the system today so that two months before the expiry of the licence itself, the Office of Labour invited the holder to document two new photographs, and then it will basically just be sent to him the card itself. We believe that this is helpful not only to the gesture, but to the approach towards the disabled. And I think that today, in the time of the covid pandemic, which we do not know how long it will last, it is very important for them, because any further administrative procedure or claim on the disabled person and his family is a burden to him. And the last change is that for those persons who are already permanently entitled to the card, periodic medical examinations are not required. We have discussed this a lot with Mrs Dražilová, who is rapporteur for this press, and with representatives of the Labour Office. It must be rightly said that these cases are already unique at this point, but in some cases they still occur. Even here, I think the clarification in the law is the right ambition, so that there are no doubts. Dear colleagues, we have encountered some other problematic points in discussing the issue of disabled people and issuing licences with colleagues and from other clubs, and therefore I, as the promoter for myself, will have no problem with the fact that if the veto falls on the discussion in Section 90, we will have the opportunity to discuss some of the issues within the committee and, if necessary, amend them in the form of amendments. Colleagues, I would like to ask you to support this law for second reading and I firmly believe that the negative position of the government, which has been, will be changed on the basis of a discussion within the committee, because I think that this issue will really help people with disabilities and that this is really for a professional discussion, where I believe that we will find common ground with representatives of the Ministry and the Office of Labour, possibly the Czech Social Security Administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-003-272.u3	At this point, I would like the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Lenka Dražilová, to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-003-272.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 23 June this year, the Parliamentary Press 896 was sent to Members. As has already been said, this is a proposal from a group of Members - Vít Kaňkovskýý and others - to issue a law amending Act No. 329/2011 Coll., on the provision of benefits to persons with disabilities. It can be said in a very simple way that the essence of this proposal is to simplify the issue of licences for disabled people. As my colleague Kaňkovský said here, there are basically three situations. The first time when a disabled person who is entitled to a permanent disability licence applies for the issue of a new licence as an authentic instrument only because of the expiry of the existing licence. According to the appellants, it is common practice that, even in these cases, such a claim is assessed before issuing a licence by the county social security authority, which, of course, leads to a very significant and unnecessary extension when issuing new certificates. [[18.40 hours]] Furthermore, the appellants complement the state of health of persons with disabilities, which they consider to be unchangeable and, of course, unsubstantiated, so that they are repeatedly assessed. Thirdly, it is proposed that these persons be invited by the Regional Branch of the Labour Office two months before the expiry of the licence for the provision of the current photograph and on the expiry date that office issued them a new licence. The draft effectiveness of the amendment is from 1. 1. 2021. The Government has discussed the amendment to the Law on 20 July this year and has taken a disagreeable position on this proposal. In the case of the issue of the licence - meaning the plastic card - of persons with disabilities only because of the expiry of its period of validity, according to the applicable legislation contained in Section 35 the state of health is not re-evaluated and therefore the proposed regulation under the Government is redundant. The reasoned report argues the unnecessary spending of funds, the costs of the medical evaluation service and its overload. To this end, however, it should be noted that 80 per cent of the disabled person's licences were granted without a time limit in 2019. It is therefore clear that doctors of the assessment reports consistently ensure that the validity of the assessment is always determined with regard to the specific and individual health condition, so as not to burden both the persons assessed and the medical assessment services. The limited period of validity of the opinion, i.e. the right to a disabled person's licence, is determined only in justified cases. Furthermore, the Government notes that the explanatory memorandum does not state the reasons which led to the selection of individual medical conditions for which it is proposed to issue a decision on entitlement to a disability card without a time limit. The drafters proposed to the House to discuss the bill so that the House could agree with it in accordance with Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-003-272.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate. With priority rights Mr. Chairman of the club YES Mr. Faltýnek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-003-272.u6	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to give the veto on behalf of three parliamentary clubs - YES, social democracy and KSČM - for the hearing under Section 90, as my colleague Kaňkovský rightly predicted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-003-272.u7	Thank you. In the general debate, Mrs Dražilová is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-003-272.u8	I would just like to say for myself very briefly that, as part of the preparation of the intelligence report and objective information on this proposal, I have visited several branches of employment offices of different sizes, from the smallest to one of the largest in the city of Brno, and I was really interested in the established practice of issuing licences for disabled people. I will just repeat that the longest period of time even in the case of permanent entitlement to issue a licence is ten years for persons over 18 years of age, i.e. adults, and 5 years for children, or respectively. for persons under 18 years of age. The issue of a new card is basically due to the identification of the person. As I said before, the card looks like an ID card, and it needs a photo renewal. The current state of affairs is indeed such that in the case of permanent entitlement and termination of the licence, the disabled person only delivers the photo, in some cases even the employment office will invite the person himself to deliver the photo as the applicants want it, and the office of employment will only send an application for the production of the licence to the State Cenin Printer. This cooperation is very good and, at the latest, within 10 days, the card is returned to the relevant employment office. As the government has also argued, I have been told that, indeed, 90 per cent of the assessments are granted without a time limit, and only where there is a temporary situation or where there is a presumption of improvement, so they are issued for a shorter period of time. I think it is important that I state here that the cards are always issued in accordance with the length of validity of the opinion, in other words, that the card issued, the card issued, always reflects the opinion. Therefore, what the petitioners object to is not really happening in practice in a serious majority, as my predecessor, my colleague Kaňkovský, said, maybe it is only limited in some places, and it certainly does not follow the methodology of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. As regards the proposal that the labour authorities themselves call for photos to be delivered and inform about the end of the validity of the card, I think we should discuss this with the labour authorities themselves. If there was an application for this and it was sent by the so-called hybrid mail, I suppose it could be really considered and, of course, it would be more comfortable for the user. As far as the proposed medical conditions are concerned, I do not, of course, refer to those who are losing limbs, so for a permanent assessment, I think they deserve even more discussion. At this point, I am in favour of the proposal moving forward to the next reading, so that we have time to discuss some of the proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-003-272.u9	Thank you. Mr. Vít Kaňkovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-003-272.u10	Dear colleagues, colleagues, just a few glos on Mrs Dražilová's contribution and especially on the negative position of the government. I will repeat once again that the main objective and main ambition of this amendment is to really unite the application practice in granting the permanent entitlement. That's the most important point. And I'm gonna repeat the numbers again. Roughly 325 000 people with disabilities who are granted a disability card, and of which about 65 000 has a time limit. That means it's not a very small group of people who have to go to the periodic exams. And some of them ask why I didn't get a permanent claim, and why my colleague, who has more or less the same disability, got one. And I think this should be clearly tagged. Of course, medicine isn't math. There will always be some space, and it will always be judged by the doctor of the review service at the beginning of the claim. But the point is to avoid repeated inspections of persistently adverse conditions that can no longer be improved. So that's the main ambition. What my colleague was talking about means the cases are unique - and I said so in the opening speech that even for some people who are permanently entitled, when the card ends as a public document, they are invited to be searched. These are really rare cases. I've met it myself twice in the last two years. They're not big numbers. But even here, it suggests there's a need for a clear adjustment. And as far as the exchange process is concerned, I think it's technical that it's good to discuss it with the employment authorities. And as far as the government's negative position is concerned, it is as almost always with opposition proposals, when the government gives a negative opinion to opposition proposals in 95 percent. And I will say just one paradoxical point, and it is that point 7, when the government writes that it is not possible to interfere with the law on the provision of benefits to disabled persons, because there is another House press, which is also parliamentary, it is the House press 730, among other things I am co-signed under it, and which relates to a completely different area of the issue of people with disabilities. So that's one paradox. And the second is that at the same point, the government says that it has a government proposal prepared, a government amendment to the bill on granting benefits to disabled persons, which the world has not yet seen, or at least we haven't seen him here, and we are in three quarters of this term. So much for a comment on the government's negative position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-003-272.u11	Thank you. I don't have anyone else logged in to the general debate electronically or from the point of view. I am ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. Not interested. As the veto of the three parliamentary clubs fell in accordance with § 90 para. 2, we will continue the classic discussion and we will deal with the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. [[18.50 hours]] First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion submitted for discussion of the Committee on Social Policy as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest ordering another committee as a guarantee committee? I don't see anyone, we'll vote. I've started the vote. I ask, who is in favour of ordering the motion to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a committee of guarantee? Who's against it? Voting order number 263. Announced 96 Members, for 86, against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees? I do not see, therefore, ending the discussion of this point and thank you, rapporteur. Let's go back to discussing the point.
