ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-015-058.u1	58. Government bill on waste / House print 676/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposed proposal will be given by the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec, to whom I hereby give the floor. Please, you have the floor. And I'll ask for peace in the courtroom. Anyone who wants to discuss anything, let them do so in the foyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-015-058.u2	Mr President, fellow Members, thank you for the floor. I don't even want to jinx it, because as the master used to say, I really didn't expect that we could get there today. But I won't hold it up. I have a waste package here today that consists of four laws in total. But as optimistic as I am, I don't believe we'll be able to handle all four by the seventh, but what if. The first one I dare to present to you in any case is the draft waste law. This bill transposes a number of European Union regulations, including the latest EU regulations, from the so-called circular economy package. The main objective of the new Waste Act is to create legislative conditions for essential support for waste recycling, waste sorting, of course, and for a significant diversion of waste from landfills, which will have to be implemented in order to achieve new European targets for municipal waste management, which are quite strict. The law sets binding targets for the recycling of municipal waste, targets for the reduction of landfilling of municipal waste, targets for the sorting of waste at municipal level and also regulates set economic tools in waste management by the system actually paying according to what you discard. The Act provides for a period of 2030 from which it will be prohibited to place waste in landfills usable and recyclable. Here I want to say that 2030 is the result of a compromise within a very complex inter-ministerial commentary procedure, and there have been different deadlines from 2024 to 2035. And this is a compromise between the Union of Towns and Municipalities, the Chamber of Economics, the Association of Industry, the Association of Regions, the Ministry of Industry and a number of entities. As far as economic instruments are concerned, the proposal contains a new setting of waste storage charges for landfills. Useable waste cannot be stored without use in landfills, but must be directed to recycling or, where appropriate, energy recovery. The draft law also sets out a new distribution of selected waste storage charges on landfills, which will be fairer and ensure that funds can be directed towards improving waste management. For municipalities that reach the established levels of municipal waste sorting, the law provides an incentive instrument, the so-called sorting discount, to avoid excessive economic burden on municipalities. Even the sorting discount was a mechanism that we have long tuned with the Union of Towns and Municipalities. The proposal also addresses the issue of black landfills, which represent the long-term problem of many municipalities in the Czech Republic, and in this respect it is based on the constitutional principle of "ownership obliges" but, on the other hand, it creates mechanisms that the owner, on whose territory the black landfill is created, the municipality is able to provide specific assistance programmes. The proposal for a new law was prepared on the basis of recommendations made by the European Commission and also by the OECD. The new Waste Act contains a number of solutions that have proved to be successful in other European Union countries. Finally, let me just point out once again that for several years the law or proposal has actually been discussed, it has already been prepared, but in the meantime the Legislative Council of the Government has decided that it is better to return the law because a new waste package of the European Union - a package of circular economy - is being prepared and that it would be important to take this circular package into account there. It is also the result of a truly broad consensus of key partners, whether they are municipalities, whether it be industry, whether it be the Chamber of Commerce and other entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-015-058.u3	Thank you, too, Minister. There will have to be a change in the rapporteur because the rapporteur, Jan Schiller, apologizes. He will be represented by the rapporteur, Mr Josef Kott. We will vote on this amendment by the rapporteur. I've called everyone from the lobby. Let's wait a minute. I'll sign you all out. Please log in with your identification cards. When we're done, I'll tell you what we're going to vote on, so I don't say it a few times. We will vote on the amendment of the rapporteur to this press. Mr Jan Schiller apologizes, and therefore we have a representative, Mr Josef Kott. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's the rapporteur for a change. Who's against it? Voting order number 166, registered 124 Members and Members, for 124, against no one. The proposal was adopted, so please let the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Josef Kott. And I'll ask for peace in the courtroom!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-015-058.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the reasons set out here by the Minister, I would like to make a brief summary of this. So it is the transposition of certain European directives in waste management and the reason for the processing of new legislation is the fact that the applicable law of 2001 no longer complies with current legislative technical requirements. Overall, this is a new approach to waste management and changes in the law are very comprehensive from a general point of view. The main changes to the legislation in force are... The draft law now regulates the issue of waste storage charges for landfill and municipal waste charge. The issue of the municipal waste charge will only be revised in the Local Charges Act. Other important changes concern waste collection. Waste collectors will be obliged to equip premises with equipment, camera systems and keep records for a specified period of time, and the conditions for collection of waste by mobile devices are further tightened. The subject matter of the bill is also the solution to the issue of illegally concentrated waste, so called. black junkyards. In this respect, the draft law is based on the constitutionally enshrined principle of "ownership obliges' and lays down a procedure for identifying the person responsible for illegally concentrated waste and for ensuring that the waste is disposed of and transferred to the waste facility. In addition, the draft law sets out in more detail the procedures to determine that waste ceases to be waste, provides for a regular revision or a time limit for the authorisation of the operation of waste facilities and introduces waste trading as an activity with a separate authorisation. Thanks to the extensive issue of waste management, recovery of end-of-life products has been removed from the law and this will be dealt with by another amendment of the law separately. The proposal brings new responsibilities to municipalities, such as composting, to operators of collection sites where the mentioned metal waste is being dealt with, camera recordings. And it gives new responsibilities to the Ministry and municipalities to publish data and inform their citizens. It is obvious that discussions can be expected and that there will be several amendments accompanying such a comprehensive change in the circular economy. It will seek to promote the principles of the functioning of the circulatory economy from other European countries and the interests of individual groups active in the waste management market. However, the Ministry of the Environment has gone through a long discussion with all the groups and, in my opinion, presents a balanced proposal corresponding to options not only economic within our Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-015-058.u5	I thank you and open a general debate in which I have, with the right of priority, Mrs Černochová. And if they do, I'll read the apologies. Mr Václav Klaus apologizes today from 18.15 a.m. to the end of the day for health reasons and Mrs Karla Šlechtová today from 18.15 a.m. due to a doctor's visit. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-015-058.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The scope of the proposed new waste legislation is disproportionate, the problem is also its incomprehensibleness, indiscretion and increased administrative burden resulting from it for a wide range of obliged persons. The proposal for new waste legislation is more than 2.5 times more extensive than the existing legislation. And this is not due to a number of provisions from the European Union, but to a number of proposals by Czech officials, as is the custom, which are beyond the requirements of the European Union. In the Waste Act, the incorrect setting of the sorting discount, which instead of being an incentive instrument, will lead the municipalities to divert from sorting in later years. Compared to e.g. with the Slovak sorting discount, the draft Czech Waste Act is significantly less incentive with regard to its possible achievement. It is therefore realistic to expect that the proposed sorting discount on the part of the municipalities will be criticised with regard to its really very high adjustment of the required separation rate and its very progressive and rapid increase, which can demotivate a number of municipalities, as the target may seem really unattainable to them. And if they fail to achieve the next year-to-year targets, they will lose their full entitlement to the present advantage, which may mean an increase in costs for the municipality from year to year in the order of millions of crowns, in consequence, regardless of whether the waste will be carried to landfills or other technologies. This is a relatively strong demotivative factor that can lead the community to prefer to produce unsorted bulk waste and not invest in better sorting. In this, Slovak sorting discount settings appear to be significantly more functional in practice and more motivational. We know that really municipalities can achieve separation at 50 or 55 percent in good sorting. In the case of small municipalities, it is about 60 percent. However, the question is whether it is real for municipalities to separate the required 70 per cent in 2025 or in 2028 75 per cent of municipal waste. The goal is certainly correct, we can agree on this, but it is a question of its reality and long-term sustainability in time. This amount of separation targets may be proposed for the following years, for example after 2030, 2035 and beyond. However, it is necessary to define the continuing advantage for municipalities, as the advantage in the landfill fee will no longer be current and functional after the deadline for the landfill. The proposed model is surprisingly based on the motivation for sorting only until the year 2027, respectively. 2029. However, the European Union's objectives are up to 2035. I don't know if the plaintiffs noticed. What will the municipality motivate to continue high separation after the landfill, and thus after the landfill fee and sorting discount? Has anyone from the Department of Environment thought about this? After all, the sustainability of high separation rates is essential for achieving Europe's recycling targets even after the date of the ban on landfilling. [[18.40 hours]] However, this does not solve the bill systemically at all. The law wants to address this only through sanctions for municipalities, it always goes very well for everyone, which seems completely ineffective and unacceptable. In other words, the law punishes municipalities if the municipalities themselves fail to meet high sorting targets in the future, thus transferring the State's responsibility for meeting the European Union's objectives to the municipalities. This could be a really big problem. It is appropriate to motivate the municipalities, not to punish them. Entrepreneurs, even when they produce municipal waste, are not entitled to any sorting discount, except for small businessmen who can participate in the municipal system. The law thus de facto introduces for no reason two categories of agents - those entitled and those without entitlement. Discriminatory? The law contains obligations beyond the new European legislation, the so-called gold-plating, such as: (a) the date on which the landfill ends. The European Union is bound to set 2035 as the year when a maximum of 10 per cent of municipal waste is to be landfilled, Article 5 (5) of the Landfill Directive. However, the draft Czech law says 2030, i.e. by five years more stringent and more expensive settings for Czech municipalities and cities. Unfortunately, the petitioner does not explain to the municipalities why they should pay for this significantly more expensive setting and which specific economic benefits it will actually bring them. (b) In contrast to the European Union directive, the Act introduces a ban on landfilling all, including industrial waste, after 2029. However, there is a substantive contradiction both with the objectives of the European Union and with the objectives of the Ministry of Environment mentioned in Section 1 of the draft law and in Annex 1, where the objectives relate only to municipal waste. (c) Another obligation which the European Union legislation does not know and the law contains is the introduction of a so-called calorific value parameter. As a result, these instruments cause additional unnecessary and significant increases to which the producers of waste, in particular the municipalities and cities, will be exposed in the following years. The law is much stricter than the European directive, and this is in the calorific value parameter, which I have already mentioned, let me give you some details. The newly proposed legislation does not create the conditions for the development of sorting technologies that are necessary to meet the objectives of the European Union as a complement to the system of primary sorting in municipalities. More about it was in the Czech Radio report, it was on Plus. You can play it, of course, or I can give you the link. Only four countries from the 28 countries of the European Union use the set parameter of calorific value, which European legislation itself does not even know. Little bit, don't you think? The calorific value parameter in the proposed setting makes it impossible to operate the necessary sorting and treatment facilities for municipal waste and leads waste to end up as an unmixed mixture in incinerators, which is not in line with the objectives and policy of the European Union. The calorific value parameter is also criticized by environmental organisations. The proposed legislation also lacks modern anchoring of the role of energy recovery. Although the European Union has priority sorting and recycling, it also envisages energy recovery of waste or energy-rich fraction of treated waste, for example in modern fluid boilers. It does not, however, support the incineration of unprocessed composite waste in grate incineration plants, the so-called ZEVO. However, in the Czech environment, it is necessary to issue implementing regulations or decrees to promote greater use of fuels from waste, and to release the calorific value from the draft law. Many European Union countries have such a decree. The European Union also has technical standards for the TAP. Until the decree is in place, the production market and, in particular, the use of fuels in energy terminals cannot develop sufficiently. The decree has been requested for several years by the Ministry of the Environment by a wide range of entities, except investors in grid incinerators for mixed municipal waste, for which the path of modern fluid boilers is competition. However, it is not clear why the Ministry of the Environment is still not involved in this matter. I'd like to ask the Minister about that. The law still does not sufficiently address the issue of differences in central data for the Czech Republic. It's a pen, it's the Department of Environment data. For example, significant differences in some data make it impossible to objectively assess the economic effects of the planned increase in landfill fees on producers from both the municipal and commercial sectors and to plan the necessary waste management capacities. Unfortunately, the dispute between the Ministry of Environment and the ČSÚ is very significant. For example, in 2017, the production of municipal waste according to the Ministry of Finance was 5 691 000 tonnes, but according to the CSO only 3 634 000 tonnes. So the difference is 2,000,000. In addition, the Ministry of Environment in the RIA report in Table 4, where it compares the production of KO in the European Union in 2015, when the production of KO in the Czech Republic added 500 kilograms per citizen, while in the EUROSTAT table and in the ČSÚ report and in Table 16 the value of 314 kilograms per citizen is given to the Czech Republic. In such a conflict of data, Minister, it is not objectively possible to evaluate the impacts or strategic considerations for the necessary addition of technologies, so that the objectives of the circular economy package are not threatened at the same time. Here, too, I can mention professional literature or articles that I can also deliver to you. I'm not making it up, I'm not sucking the data off my finger. The law is set for the needs of the ZEVO incinerators in the case of the landfill charge. However, this is a technology that the European Union no longer wants to support and which can really bind the possibilities of achieving recycling targets. Why, Minister, is the fee increased from CZK 500 to CZK 1,850? It is calculated and in Slovakia it was also used into their law that waste from landfills can be effectively diverted at a charge between 1,100 and 1,200. Investors in the incinerators publicly requested a fee of at least CZK 1 500 in order to pay them the operation of the incinerators for unmixed municipal waste. The Ministry of the Environment met them and in the law there is currently a fee of CZK 1,850. However, it is known that the amount of the landfill fee will not ensure an increase in recycling and practically does not affect the amount of recycling at all. The law thus gives a false signal to investors that they are to invest in incinerators for unmixed municipal waste. [[18.50 hours]] The law in its current settings can undoubtedly ensure the transfer of waste from landfills to incinerators. But there is no reflection on what it will actually be for us as the Czech Republic if binding targets are set for recycling, and at least 65 percent of municipal waste. There is also a logical question: How much waste produced must we process at the beginning in order to be able to use the mandatory 65 per cent of municipal waste at the end of the final recycling products? Certainly more knowledge, perhaps we agree with the Minister. What, then, will be burned in new incinerators for unmixed waste? The law is wrong about economic parameters, and rather than directing the Czech Republic to meet the EU's objectives, it makes it de facto difficult to meet them. I can ask why that is. There is no need to discuss whether landfilling should be reduced. That's for sure. The EU has set a clear target for this in 2035. This is Article 5, par. 5 of the landfill directive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-015-058.u7	I'd beg you, there's really a couple of us, and nine minutes to go, so let's try to keep it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-015-058.u8	What is going on in the draft law is whether the Czech Republic should go through sorting and recycling or through new capacities incinerators into unprocessed bulk waste. This particular discrepancy with the EU's objectives needs to be corrected, my fellow Members and colleagues. To put it simply, if the fee is above 1,500, new incinerators will be built. If the fee is lower, it will go with the way of sorting and recycling. That is, the way that the new European directives lay down, trends and their objectives. In particular, the level of the fee needs to be set in such a way that the European objective of reducing landfilling is met, while at the same time ensuring that the fee does not burden municipalities and cities beyond the necessary level, while giving them sufficient incentive for the necessary maximum sorting in order to achieve the EU's objectives. The economic tool should therefore be set up in such a way that if...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-015-058.u9	I understand, Madame. I don't think we're gonna go any further until we've quieted down here. And whoever wants to go home, let him do so and leave this meeting room. Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-015-058.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-015-058.u11	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-015-058.u12	The amount of the fee needs to be set in such a way that the European objective of reducing landfilling is met, while at the same time ensuring that the charge is not burdened by municipalities and cities beyond the necessary burden, while giving them sufficient incentive to the necessary maximum sorting in order to achieve the EU's objectives. The economic instrument should be set up in such a way that if the municipality is sufficiently sorting, it is not sanctioned by a higher residual waste charge. See this by me several times mentioned Slovak model. The proposed legislation. As I have also said here, there is a complete lack, Minister, of implementing decrees, which the laws refer to in a really extreme number of individual duties. I want to ask when these implementing regulations will be. In fact, there is also no known final solution to be achieved, i.e. the goal. It is therefore not possible to really quantify the impact of the proposed obligations, both on municipalities and cities and on our entrepreneurs. There are no functional tools to support recycling. The package of new waste legislation does not sufficiently address the need to meet the recycling target of municipal waste, which is set by the EU directive at least 65 per cent in 2035. In absolute value, the Czech Republic must move more than 1.43 million tonnes of municipal waste to recycling annually over 15 years. Unfortunately, neither the Waste Act nor the related proposed legislation contains any instruments at all. According to European objectives, it is not only a reduction in landfilling but also an increase in recycling. However, the Czech law ends halfway. Although a very consistently larger number of tools, effectively reduces landfilling, but does not ensure that diverted waste from landfills is moved to Europe required recycling, but rather directed to incinerators. However, they no longer support the EU with reference to the need to comply with the new European directives on sorting and recycling. Without supplementing the instruments to support recycling, the new legislation does not clearly lead the Czech Republic to meet European objectives. An impact analysis is quite inadequate for all the proposals put forward. The LRV RIA Commission had serious reservations about the drafts. 19 days. 9. 2019, the following comment was posted at the Government Legislative Council: Some of the comments made by RIA to the Government's Legislative Council are such that it is difficult to address them merely by adapting the current text. The necessary adjustment requires more intervention. The impact study is completely passing away with a more detailed evaluation of the current condition...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-015-058.u13	Yes. Let's wait a little longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-015-058.u14	Thank you, too. The impact study completely ignores a more detailed assessment of the current situation and its relevance to the assessment of the necessity and scope of the proposed changes. According to the text, we do most of the goals as a state, except for some exceptions. Then the question is why such fundamental changes and such increases in the administrative burden are being proposed, which, of course, have significant financial implications. Unfortunately, we do not know from the analysis how the economy of the OH system, waste economy as a whole, will change with the increase in fees. We do not know how the municipalities will pass it on to citizens in the form of a fee. And we do not know whether changes in fees will bring about the changes that we actually want. This is not mentioned anywhere in the Ministry of Environment's analysis. It is not clear at all how the Ministry of the Environment has set out the impact numbers. It's kind of arbitrary, but that's not good. Another thing is that there is some way of proposing the allocation of fees, but we completely lack information on why it is designed as it is, and what aspects and impacts it will have. The monitored need and existing functionality of the system are not evaluated. There is no evaluation of the interlocking of the AOS system, sorting, charging, the system in municipalities and the costs and revenues of the waste management system. This is one of the key things, but it is not in the impact analysis at all, Minister. Even in the light of the wider criticism given by the RIA Ministry's Legislative Council, the impact analysis was not sufficiently adjusted. The legislators thus do not have sufficient and adequate information to enable an objective impact assessment for citizens, for municipalities and for companies. However, the proposed legislation is such that it affects all citizens in the Czech Republic and impacts -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-015-058.u15	Madame, I'm going to interrupt you. It's 7:00 p.m., we're closing today's meeting day. This press is cut off. We'll continue tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. with the answers to the written interpelations. I wish you a good evening and goodbye.
