ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u1	16. Government bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended, and Act No. 178/2016 Coll., amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended, and Act No. 200/1990 Coll., on offenses, as amended, as amended /German press 645/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft law will be introduced by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga. Please, Minister, you have the floor. I'd like to ask you to calm down in the hall, please transfer any conversations to the lobby. One more time, please, calm down. Thank you. And please the debaters to go to the lobby eventually, but they can't hear me when they're discussing. That's the problem. [[The noise in the Chamber persists; the crowd of Members is still debating near the speaker's desk.]] Mr. Secretary, try.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u2	I'll try. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am standing before you with the draft school law, which was very much discussed in the first reading, and the reasons for the presentation of this law during the three runs, the three days of the first reading, when we met here over this law, I think I had the opportunity to present in detail. This means that the reasons have not changed, and perhaps I will not surprise anyone if I merely briefly state that the aim of the proposal lies in a comprehensive adjustment of the model and evaluation of the graduation exam, and with the fact that it is probably the most medially frequented at the moment, that it would remain an option for the choice of graduation from mathematics, that is, the freedom of choice between mathematics and foreign language. It's not new. What happened here at first reading was that someone was canceling math and so on, which, of course, isn't happening at all. Only the goal is to maintain the option of choice, both for grammar school and for others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u3	I will interrupt you, Minister, for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the hall. Once again, I ask those who are discussing basically near the speaker's desk to negotiate outside in the foyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u4	Thank you, too. In view of the amendments as well as the amendments made by Members Kateřina Valachová, Karel Rais and Ivo Vondrák, who discussed and recommended the Education Committee, I will sum up the original core of the government proposal itself, which I still seek to maintain as Minister of Education. From the 2020/2021 school year, the government proposal limits the tests of the common part of the graduation exam, i.e. if you want the state part, only to didactic tests and to transfer the written and oral examinations of the joint part of the graduation exam to the profile part of the graduation exam, i.e. simply from the state back to the school, while by 2020, the examinations from the Czech language and literature and from the foreign language take place in the joint part of the graduation exam from the three sub-tests: didactic test, written work, oral exams. Since the school year 2020/2021 it is proposed to abolish the valid but still ineffective legislation according to which three examinations of the common part of the graduation exam should be mandatory: Czech language and literature, foreign language and mathematics, especially because of compulsory examination of the examination subject of mathematics. The ergo hammer is about keeping the choice, as I said at the beginning of my contribution. I will not repeat here that as far as the reasons for changing the mathematics exam have not passed, on the contrary, I think they are valid, they are supported by clear figures. I'm just stressing that the math exam, and I'm stressing it repeatedly in my opening words, no one's interrupting. We want to preserve the choice between mathematics and a foreign language, as it has been so far. In addition, from the 2020/2021 school year, i.e. from the 2021 trial period, a new optional exam of the common part of the graduation exam called Mathematics Expanding, or, if you like, in the public space known as Mathematics+ is introduced. This is a test which I think 17 faculties already consider as a level of mathematics graduation, which they see as sufficient to meet the conditions of admission procedures. In this context, I mention that the amendment already mentioned, which was recommended by the Education Committee, only provides for a two-year delay in the still ineffective provisions of the School Act on Mathematics Examination. And I want it to be said in my introductory words that we do not agree with this proposal as the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. As far as further proposals recommended by the Education Committee are concerned, then I welcome most of them. Among the amendments tabled, I would like to draw particular attention to the proposal put forward by Mrs Melková, which, in addition to the partial debyrocratisation relating to certain school financing requirements, i.e. the so-called reduction in the administrative burden, also makes it possible to cover transport costs for actions under education from the state budget, from the so-called ONIV school. It is a matter which, at the same time, if we provide the schools with sufficient amounts of these other non-investment expenses, will cause what many of you are calling for, that means that the school will have a much greater opportunity to cover the costs associated with either ski courses or swimming, or with a visit to memory institutions, museums, theatres, or also often mentioned science centers. The proposal also provides for the possibility to take into account the different structures of school services carried out by school establishments between regions, which is another instrument if this amendment, which I support, goes through how to eliminate regional inequalities and inequalities between schools. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like it if, in view of the certainty of future graduates and their teachers, we could end the discussion of this press at this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and, of course, I look forward to a constructive debate during the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u5	Thank you, Minister. Let me load an apology. The President of Stanjura apologizes from 10.00 pm for reasons of work until the end of the day. There. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 645/1 and 2. Mr Lukáš Bartoň is the rapporteur for this committee, he has already taken his place. J I will ask the rapporteur to inform us about the discussion of the proposal and to justify any amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u6	Thank you for the floor. The Education Committee discussed this press at its meeting on 24 February, on 5 February, only interrupted its debate and adopted a resolution under number 645/2 on 24 February in which it recommends that the press be approved as amended by the amendments it adopted. In the press, 645/2, there are many amendments adopted by the Education Committee. In the area relating directly to a government amendment, he adopted an amendment delaying the introduction of a foreign language and mathematics by two years, i.e. for seniors who will graduate in the spring of 2023. In the field of math, the amendment was adopted so that students who failed in graduation could, in a short period of time, pass a teaching certificate, as was the case with students who succeeded in graduation, who had a reduced period of time for the composition of the teaching certificate. And then he adopted many amendments to the law itself. I will not develop them here, they are in the Houses of the Press 645/2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Rais is the first to be joined at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u8	Have a good day. As a government MP, I will try to find a consensus with the Ministry of Education rather than contradictions, so I hope it will not be for long. I'd start spreading. Yesterday we met, representatives of the political parties, basically on the issue of math, and I consider it positive that we agreed that graduation should have two parts. One, some kind of state and then some kind of school. And that, in that spirit, is actually one of the amendments that I will be presenting here on behalf of a group of three Members - Rais, Vondrák, Valachová - in a moment. I don't want to discuss these shifts, but I just want to say that a rather frequent opinion is that two years to prepare a methodology for changes in mathematics is not enough. The original law that we all knew was from the last term, or, in fact, for at least five or six years, a Methodist and people who have been having a good time teaching mathematics know the situation, so it's not that we've been pushing it for two years, but basically they've already had a big enough time tax to make some changes. As far as our amendments are concerned, on the one hand, we are essentially trying to strengthen the role of the school and the role of the directors or of the entire staff, so one of these amendments is essentially about the introduction of the oral part of mathematics. When I look at the exact justification, we're just trying to make sure there's an oral part of graduation. However, there is a risk, of course, that the total number of compulsory examinations in the profiling part of the graduation exam may change, and therefore it is also proposed to change the minimum number of tests in case one of the profile tests is to be possible from a foreign language - we would replace this test with a language certificate. So basically this one amendment follows up on our joint proposal in the sense that (a) we introduce a written and oral part of mathematics and other languages, and if a student had a language certificate from an Oxford-type institution and so on or a state language teacher, he would be recognized for this graduation part of the language. This is essentially Amendment 4472, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. And the second amendment, 4473, is actually a kind of deboning of the proposal, if the oral part of mathematics were not approved by chance, so it only concerns the problem of recognising language exams, or, basically, if it has a certificate, it does not have to do a math degree. And that's the House press 4473. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u9	Thank you. Real comment - Vice-President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I will now avoid debating whether or not the compulsory graduation is yes or no, but I will comment on the draft school committee, on the amendment, to postpone the obligation of the graduation exam for two years from mathematics and a foreign language. I think, with all due respect to colleagues and colleagues from the school committee, that this is the worst possible idea and for the environment of schools, for students, for teachers, it only brings a delay in the confusion they already have at this moment. I'm talking to high school guys, high school guys, and I think there's only two options. Either let's leave the original term, or let's do the delay for a while, in which the school system can actually handle it or we can change the math class. And that really isn't two years. In this case, in the case of the preparation of schools for compulsory mathematics, I believe enough the arguments that the Ministry of Education comes up with, that a number of schools are simply not prepared for this, teaching does not take place in such a way that students can pass compulsory mathematics. It's consistent with my experience. So I would consider it much more reasonable and responsible, if it were to be delayed, it would be at some reasonable time, like ten years, seven years, just at a time at which it can actually be really - really! - to adjust the mathematics course, it does not concern, please, grammar school and other types of schools, so that students can and have the chance to graduate from mathematics at all. Two years is a bad solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u11	I thank you for keeping the time exactly. Another factual point - Mr Rais. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u12	Hello. I will respond to what Mr. Fiala here said. We were both, I feel, there we were, in the past period, in the middle of the last period, basically approved a compromise proposal, so the ministry, whether it was led by this minister or that minister, it wasn't about the minister, so it just knew at least four years, and today it has two more years, so six years is known that something has to be done with the math, and not just with the math, to do. If I'm scary, all I know is that Cermat made mistakes. But I take it it's just a certain kind of nasty. So I think it needs to be seen in one piece at six years, and not just two years to look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u13	Thank you. And a factual point - Vice-President Fiala still wants to respond to the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u14	Yes, of course I will respond to my colleague Rais. Basically, it's true, but let's look at the reality. Until now, it doesn't matter who did it. But let's look at the reality, and it's like this: there's just not a third of the pupils who are able to do the graduation they choose voluntarily. And they choose that voluntarily because their chances of succeeding in a foreign language are much lower. This is the reality of contemporary Czech education especially in the secondary vocational branch. And this is what we have to change! Otherwise, we create unequal conditions for students, and that's wrong. That is why I say, and please believe, in this case, the opinion of the Ministry of Education and my expert opinion, two years to change this situation is simply not enough. And if we know that this situation exists here, then we simply can't put a part of the students in just because they have an inappropriate way of teaching mathematics, lack of an hourly grant, miseducated mathematics, so we simply can't expose them to this sword, which will be shading their heads at the end of their high school studies. That doesn't make sense. This will not improve mathematical literacy, we will not achieve better general knowledge, which undoubtedly includes mathematics, etc. And let's not look at this, please, through the optics of grammar school! Yes, the grammar school can do it, the grammar school can have compulsory math school tomorrow. But today, a major part of the education system at the high school level is made up of vocational schools. Much bigger part than any other European country. From vocational schools we also go to young people at universities, sometimes it is more than from grammar schools. And just to do that, now that we know those people don't have a chance to do it, not because of their shortcomings, but because of those schools, it's a mistake. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u15	Thank you. Your time for a point of fact has passed, thank you. Mr Rais de facto, then Mr Výborný, also de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u16	I'll be brief, I won't be performing here anymore, or I'll try not to perform anymore. But it's basically philosophy that if they're poor students, we lower the bar. I just don't like it very much, of course, because then we have engineers who really don't know trivial things. And then we're talking about Country for Future and all that stuff. It's just not possible to react to the fact that we have a part of the students that is somehow retarded, so that we can determine their graduation. I just can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u17	Thank you. So another de facto Mr Výborný, then Mrs Valachová, then Vice-President Fiala, and there are already others. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, I'm not sure that's the debate until second reading. But if it has been said here, my colleague Rais is certainly right about one thing, namely that there has been a state for four years, it is known, and that in this sense we have actually slept through and put out some kind of fire. On the other hand, and this needs to be realized when we talk for example. about Cermato, come on, Cermat is just the one who sets the form of the output. But let's not confuse the output itself and the content of mathematics. And here we really are in a situation where the worst possible solution, and I agree here with what Vice-President Fiala said, the worst possible solution is a two-year delay. It doesn't solve anything, and the uncertainty that's here now stays here. Let us either maintain the situation as it is in the law today, with everything and all the consequences that this will bear mainly towards vocational education. We're not really dealing with the issue of grammar schools here, we're dealing with the problem that's in the professional education segment. Or then the delay really has to be longer in the horizon so that we can concentrate and the Ministry of Education can concentrate on adjusting the framework education programmes, that is, on the way in which the mathematics is taught. It is not possible to confuse the content with the form of the output. That's wrong in my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u19	Thank you. A real point, Mrs Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u20	As regards the Education Committee as a Gesture Committee and its conclusion, it came out, in particular, that we have a valid, fresh, government approved long-term intention of education and development of the education system, the Chamber of Deputies received it in the first week of August, and there is, of course, a common part of the graduation exam in the balance of the Czech language as a mother tongue, foreign language and mathematics. We also have a strategy - still valid - 2020. By your means, Mr President, my colleague, Vice-President Fial, is very well known. And even there, from the perspective of high school education, we count on a common part. It's about balance of knowledge and competence. This school committee was respected in its decision. And one final point. As far as we need to change the decade - if I can count well, and we started in 2014, and what is already done and what is not, the Ministry of Education itself informed the Education Committee in July last year, so by 2023 it is just a decade. And one final point. The revision of the framework education programmes and the revision of the disciplines are executive issues of the Ministry of Education and are not part of the parliamentary debate at all. I won't do it again. I think the debate has been rich in the past, and I'm going to sign off on my general application because I think that, in particular, we should get back to the fast target.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u21	Thank you. A point of fact, Vice-President Fiala. Then, Mr Mihola.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u22	I don't intend to continue this debate much longer either. I'm just going to respond to my colleague Rais. No, it really is not, Mr President, that is not a reduction in the bar. I wouldn't have thought of anything like that. But we both know that if we were to meet in our university practice with the fact that 40 percent of students in some field have been kicked out of the bachelor's exam, then we'd both be asking those who guarantee the field, how come they didn't recognize it in the first year of study. How come it's a bachelor's exam? Why is this happening? And we're gonna think it's wrong. And I also find it wrong if 30, 40 per cent of the pupils in a school fail, not because they may not be of sufficient quality, but because the teaching is such that it does not allow them to achieve the knowledge required by the compulsory State Mathematics Graduation. And that is why I think that the school system is simply not ready for this, and why I also think that in two years this cannot be corrected enough. We must not only bear in mind some legislative documents and decisions of Parliament or the ministry that we have made in the past, but we must bear in mind and take into account the real situation in those schools. And unfortunately, it's the way I put it here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u23	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Mihola, then Mr Zahradník, Mr Bartoň and Mr Plaga. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u24	Hello, esteemed colleagues. I would like to take a stand on what President Fiala has said here. But I would partly be right about Mr. Rais, too. Those arguments that are raised here about the quality or output of students, they really should never have spoken, and perhaps the debate would have stayed far more rational. I think, like most of the contributions here, it was said that the worst possible solution was a two-year delay. The compulsory mathematics graduation was certainly a well-intentioned intention, but either the debate wasn't supposed to happen at all, and it should have been allowed to be done by 2021, or the coalition was supposed to agree with its minister to postpone it, and to enforce it and be in some unity. But since the unity isn't, it's possible, I don't know, if a hundred, maybe every MP has a different opinion, it can't be worked out, and it's unserious to students and teachers who ask how it's gonna be. Let's stop this tragic-comedy! I think at this point on the table the only possible solution to delay mandatory math graduation, leave it as it is, and work on the RVP and other things that we started yesterday on the joint lap. But it really isn't possible to be here at this moment to say that there are five options, and time is running out. So the only possible option - the one presented by the Minister, I support it. [[10.00 hours]] But it really isn't possible to be here at this moment to say that there are five options, and time is running out. So the only possible option - the one that the Minister is presenting, I support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u25	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the debate with factual remarks. Mr Jan Zahradník, Mr. Jan Zahradník, is now making a point of fact. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u26	Dear Vice-President, fellow Members, this is one of the few laws that the public really follows closely, and people ask me: have you discussed this? Have you guys moved this somewhere? Because their kids, many of them, are in the third year of high school, and they don't know how they're gonna graduate next year. So let's just decide, for God's sake, whether they can start choosing optional subjects, they can know whether they do or not math, let's just move on a little bit and not look at the professional or political side of things, but let's look at the future seniors waiting for their adult test next year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Lukáš Bartoň, with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u28	Thank you. I, as well as many opposition Members, will join in supporting the government's proposal against those two years, two years really doesn't solve anything. And if we're talking about delay for how many years, then the moment we get to number five, there's no need to bring anything into the law at all, because it's going to be completely different in that time. After all, yesterday, at the round table, we discussed what the model of graduation could be in ten years, rather to do so. As regards the 2020 Strategy, which has been mentioned here. If we put in place a strategy for one year, we say dogmatically in five years that we still have to follow this, it must also come to some appreciation of what happened in that time. And if I take the evaluation of the expert group of the Ministry of Education to Strategy 2020, it specifically warns against the introduction, against the consequences that will have the introduction of both mandatory subjects, namely mathematics and foreign language. There's a big warning. And I think I'll give the floor to the minister, who I'm sure will.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u29	I thank Mr Bartoň. Now with priority rights, the Minister of Education. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u30	Thank you for the floor. I will just add that the 2020 Strategy, and so I had prepared my contribution to the joint part of the graduation exam, although it stated that it wanted to include mathematics first since 2020, but - and here it is important - following systemic changes in the teaching of this subject in primary and secondary education. It would be easy to say, so we increased the number of hours and something happened. It didn't happen. I was talking about the factors that affect it during the first reading. I'm just going to repeat them quickly. Indeed, math teachers are missing, and it is the most lacking aprobation in the education system. At the same time... This means systemic change when you increase your teaching, and I have never criticized existing math teachers, but rather I said that they are simply not in that system. And when you read the other things about the content of education, the fact that dividing the number of hours and the possibility of improving the quality of teaching by dividing into groups through PHmax, i.e. the number of hours maximum, the financing of regional education takes place from now on, before it becomes apparent - and that is still the struggle in the education. [[to change]] I understand that this concerns a number of people, but the changes in education, when made quickly, do not lead to a given goal. That is, before it manifests itself in the system - yes, at the central level you will change something, but before it manifests itself in the system, especially when we haven't even paid the teachers for 15 twenty years, nor have we given them enough support methodical and others as a state, and it doesn't matter who was in the government, so let's fix it, but let's not expect it to happen in one year, and there's no way in hell we're gonna give compulsory math degrees like that goal and we're gonna think they're gonna fix it. Let us leave the choice and focus on continuing to put money into the system so that there are the highest quality people and teach well because they have support methodical and others. That's the way to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u31	I thank the Minister and raised two further factual points, first Mrs Valachová, then my colleague Výborný. Now, then, Kateřina Valachová, with a factual remark. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u32	I believe that what would be the greatest evidence of all the debates on education is the honesty of the debate. And I'm really always surprised when it sounds here from the counter, as if there were no, let's say, implementation plans to meet, for example, the objectives of a common part of the graduation exam, both in high school and in high school. I am rather embarrassed to discuss this with regard to the political composition of the House and the existing coalition, but it will not stop, I must say, amaze me. And I would like to have some time on the school committee, opposition and coalition, because I also don't like to give education any political mark or colour, to honestly talk about how far we have gone in the revision of the framework education programmes and revisions of secondary schools and systems, which are all the tasks of this government's programming declaration, and, of course, colleagues are right that it is very closely related to how successful we will be, for example, in terms of introducing nodes in education, or how successful students will be. So I'm giving this, colleagues, to the school committee, and I'm sure this debate will be very interesting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u33	Thank you, Mrs Valachová, for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Marek the Výborný's point of view. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u34	Thank you for the floor. If I wanted to be sneaky, I'd dig into the functioning of this government coalition, but I feel like this is about more important and important things. I, with all due respect, through you to my colleague Valachová. It's probably pointless to be concerned with what was on the side of Secretary Valachová, Minister of the Fiala, or what Minister of the Plaga is. I think that the responsibility to pupils, responsibility to the public, to the parental public, to schools, to management, to directors is to know the situation today, that is, in March 2020, to adapt our decisions and actions. What was supposed to be and so on let's leave aside, we're dealing with the current situation. And from my point of view, the responsible approach is the one with which the present Ministry of Education and Minister Plaga come. And one thing that didn't come up. If we're talking about math here, my friends, read well what's in the law and the novel. Among other things, Mathematics+ is converted from experimental verification to optional graduation test mode. No one is prevented, no university prevents himself from putting in the conditions of admission procedure the composition of the Mathematics+ graduation exam, which is really echt quality and at the level, into the conditions of admission proceedings, at some level, and thus taking into account that no output of the quality of mathematics during admission procedures. That is, of course, possible today, or will be, if the amendment is adopted as we have it on the table today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u35	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact, and we continue the debate. The first enrollment is Mr Martin Baxa, who is ready to speak, followed by Mr Jan Čižinský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u36	Thank you. Hello, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, my dear guests, I am only allowing myself to comment briefly on the situation that has arisen. I think that at first reading we had a very responsible debate, in which, above all, arguments were made for versus the government proposal, i.e. arguments for whether the graduation exam should be reformed as such, whether the current choice between compulsory mathematics and foreign language should be maintained, whether the very form of the exam should be simplified, that is, whether it should remain only didactic tests, and I think that the seriousness of the subject would certainly deserve this, especially the expectations of secondary school students, whether those existing or those concerned by secondary schools. It was actually relevant. [[10.10 hours]] But I am, I must confess, very disappointed at the course of the school committee's proceedings. The rapporteur, Mr Bartoň, spoke about this here. And not because of the debate that was going on there, but mainly because of the amendment made by Professor Rais, Professor Vondrák and Mrs Valachová. With all due respect, Mr President-in-Office, my colleague, Professor, with all due respect for your competence, for your knowledge, which I value and respect, and I know that you are people in this area, I simply consider your amendment to be hypocritical. I think that the word is adequate in this situation because, if I am not mistaken, Professor, my colleague, you are in favour of introducing compulsory math graduation, at first reading you have been doing so, you have justified why compulsory mathematics should be introduced, and the amendment to postpone the decision by two years, in my view it is truly hypocritical. Because you know very well, profesor Rais and profesor Vondrák, as university teachers and colleague Valachová, who has long moved in education, that nothing can really change in two years. There were arguments that this time should be transitional for some time to change something else, so in my opinion nothing can really change. And what can no longer be done in two years is to introduce an oral compulsory mathematics graduation, respectively. the part that is currently written, so extend it to the oral part. I don't share an opinion, and I want to say it publicly again... [[He silences himself for a while for noise and turns to the President.]] That, in my opinion, mathematics does not learn badly in Czech schools. I'm not the one who's making my argument about putting a dog's head on math teachers in quotes. They're doing their best. We also have to say that there are not enough qualified, even qualified teachers in some regions, and they are trying to get some concrete results within the system. And we can't change that in a year and a half or two years, the teachers are few, the existing ones have limited possibilities. We can also have a discussion about what the hourly grant of mathematics is. But I'm just sure of my practice that in two years nothing can change in this regard. And actually, in my opinion, Cermat can't prepare an oral mandatory math degree. I know that such proposals are being put forward, I know that sometimes, in various cases, there are proposals that are, say, external rather than specific content. But what bothers me about this hypocritical proposal by Mr Rais, Mr Vondrák and Mrs Valachová is that we are actually taking children hostage here who are studying or immediately preparing for them in high school today. Because I am convinced that both primary school pupils and those current high school students have the right to know what the completion of their high school studies will look like, and the proposal for a two-year delay just doesn't make the situation clear. And I would like to call on you, Professor, and Mr Vondrák, both you and the absent Member, to consider whether, indeed, an amendment to a two-year suspension of mandatory mathematics graduation will be allowed to be discussed here and put to the vote at third reading. Because I am convinced that this is not only hypocritical, but it is a matter of your attitude on this matter, but it is primarily irresponsible to those who are going to high school or are there today. I think that this is not part of the debate either - I will just mention it - when there is a politically bizarre situation, when really knowledgeable, competent, influential Members of the government parties present a proposal that is contrary to what Minister Plaga is putting forward, but that is an internal matter of coalition. But again, this dispute is taken hostage by pupils and students of primary and secondary schools, and it's not meant to be this way. They were mentioned here in the previous discussion of factual remarks, so I would say, also factual arguments as to why it would be best to maintain the current situation. I will add another opinion to this, which may be very conservative, but I think it belongs to this debate, or I would like to hear it here. I am convinced that no matter what discussions are being held on the meaningfulness of state graduation as such, the current system, when a compulsory graduation from the Czech language and a compulsory graduation based on the choice between mathematics and a foreign language, is, in principle, functional. I think that's an adequate description of the situation. I very much appreciate the proposal submitted by the Ministry to return to the school level by correcting those in the quotation marks of essays, which I think was a really wrong step that they were entrusted to the repair team of external evaluators. And if that were to happen, the current system of state math could still run for a few years, and those few years, unlike those of your two, as I would say hypocritical years, could serve to actually create an idea of what the ending of a high school study should look like, actually, based on some primarily professional discussion. which types of schools should be included in this system, which fields, etc. It is a discussion that is going on for a long time, but just because it is going on for a long time does not mean that it should not be conducted and that it should be resigned. Finally, I would like once again to call on the gentlemen mentioned by the Member and Mrs Valachová to really consider whether to allow the Chamber of Deputies to vote on a two-year delay, which she takes hostages and students of secondary schools. And I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to stress this again at the third reading, to emphasise my view that the introduction of compulsory math graduation will not lead to anything that sounds like steps improving. On the contrary, I think that only the generally difficult situation of Czech education will make it difficult and, above all, it will make it very difficult for the future to make any further changes in the Czech secondary and general education system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u37	I thank Mr Martin Bax. A colleague of Čižinský will wait, because we have two factual points, respectively. three, Mr Rais, Mrs Valachová and Mr Dolínek. Now, Mr Rais, with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u38	Thank you. I agree with my colleague, the previous speaker, that the current situation was relatively best, because we argued here four years ago like dogs, and in the end there was a compromise that was acceptable to everyone. There's no dispute about that at all, I agree. But I do not agree with the claim that it is hypocrisy that we do. I can ask, what is more hypocrisy - to postpone the validity of this mathematics indefinitely, or to define two years there? Of course, I've been waiting for someone who doesn't like it to say it for four years or something else, but I'm stressing again that the situation was already here, or the situation is that the Methodists had time for it. That's for sure. As for the few teachers, because there was a reminder about this, the other House press that we are in charge of is about replacing the 10,000 teachers. I'm sure we can agree on that. So it's not about the teachers. I should also say here - or no one here said that they didn't fail in those international evaluations of Czech education, they keep their constant or slightly increasing levels, and this is all right. So we're really talking about whether two years, three years, four years, or infinity. My experience is that if someone says they're gonna move on, and they're gonna say ten more years, then obviously there's gonna be completely different people here, and they're all gonna forget about it. So that's why I thought those two years were optimal. Make a proposal for four years, but please limit it so it doesn't last forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before I give the floor to Mrs Kateřina Valachová, I will read the apology received by the President of the House, Mr Jan Bartošek from 10.30 to 12 hours for work reasons, Mr Václav Klaus by 11.30 for health reasons and Mr Pavel Blažek for the whole day for health reasons. Now, Mrs Kateřina Valachová's point of fact. Madame, please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u40	I have said several times that I feel that the debate for and against is exhausted, and the recommendations of the school committee exist. It is a recommendation from the school committee and we will no doubt decide by vote. However, I must, of course, respond to Martin Baxa talking about hypocrisy through you, Mr President. Honestly, it doesn't even piss me off anymore because it's ridiculous. The delay of two years is not for two years to solve all the sores of the Czech education system. The two years we've been working on something since 2014. The Ministry of Education knows that. The school committee told it in July 2019. A lot of things are done. I'm not going back to that. It went down here as part of the first reading, how many things are done and what is not done. And I'm gonna say it out here, we're not gonna play coalition, we're gonna play opposition - we're gonna do an education system. The problem is the revision of framework education programmes and the revision of secondary schools. She should have been done long ago. And the delay of two years, according to my court, means a decade since 2014, giving the Ministry of Education the opportunity to manage this task, while maintaining a goal on which it has long been agreed that, in the joint part of the graduation exam, of course, we want success for both gymnasians and secondary school students, but of course, we want to prepare conditions for this. There's nothing hypocritical about that. It's just, of course, a job, whether it's him or him in the government. I agree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Dolínek, then Martin Baxa and then Jakub Michálek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u42	Thank you, Mr President. At this point, I'm not gonna say whether math and graduation are right or wrong. But I do not like the argument made by my colleague here through the President. What's more hypocritical than the law we're discussing? Here was a clear legislative environment which notified all students under what conditions they were at primary, secondary school. Everyone knew what they were getting into. Everyone knew what awaited them in the years to come. And if anyone's giving insecurities to those students, they're not the ones who insist on conservative, Mr. Colleague, conservative law enforcement. It's you who's all of a sudden causing this system to blurt out. Everyone knew when they were ten years old, every current senior at ten years of age knew he was going to have a math degree. So there really is an unnecessary bill that is useless. I would rather discuss standards that are more important to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I have two more factual points, only if that is a factual point, Minister. Yes. Okay. So now, Mr Martin Baxa, then Jakub Michálek and then Minister Plaga. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u44	Thank you. I promise my colleague here that I will be speaking for the last time on this matter. And I just want to comment on what Professor Rais said. That is what I think is, as a perfectly legitimate question to me, why I do not want to put forward an amendment for a delay of four or five years. The reason is very simple and frankly contrary to what Mr Dolínek said here. I am simply convinced that there should be a preserved choice between compulsory mathematics and a foreign language. That's why I don't want to postpone it for three or four years, because I'm just convinced that the current choice is correct. And I have a different kind of argument that I've already said here at first reading. But I just want to say one important thing about it. I am convinced that there will be no dramatic shift in high schools of the non-gymnasial type even in those two years. There won't be any change in status. And if we don't care about the fate of those who are now approaching graduation or should be graduating, then we should keep that choice. I think that's a very important argument. And we'd find a whole bunch of them. But I just want to answer what Professor Rais here has asked legitimately. I do not want to put forward a proposal for a longer delay because I am simply convinced that the current system is correct. So if Mr Rais, Mr Vondrák and Mrs Valachová want to vote, they will not withdraw their amendment for two years, I think that the Chamber of Deputies will really decide what the situation will be. And it should decide that either, in accordance with the government proposal put forward by the Minister, the choice between mathematics and foreign language will remain in quotation marks forever, or that this provision will be abolished and will simply be introduced, or the current state will become effective, that is to say, the expected compulsory math graduation for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before I make a factual comment to Mr Michálek, I will read an apology from the hearing. From 9.00 to 11.00, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová apologizes. And since I do not want to waste time on individual debaters in particular on a factual point which is measured, I am asking the House for peace of mind. If you're having debates other than school law, it's in the foyer. If you want to hold a debate on the school bill, please sign up for the debate. I can't give the floor to my colleague Michálek yet, because it's not quiet here... Please, Mr. Chairman. I hope those two minutes last.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u46	Thank you for saying that you have arranged order, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to be involved in this debate at all. Only from the point of view of the club president, who may be involved in the success of the election and then in the ministry, we will have the Ministry of Education, and in two years we will find out when you pass this law here, we will join the Ministry, and the first thing we will have to deal with, that you have approved here, that our new minister will have a ticking time bomb set in place, which will explode for him, because they will be graduating and they will not be ready, and now there is nothing against the Minister, but it may not be ready to take it over immediately and run, so it seems unfair to me. If you want math graduations as mandatory as planned, please do it in your term of office, let it come to you, you're responsible, you're gonna run it, and you're not gonna blame it on anyone else. That seems unfair to me. Of course, we encourage it to be abolished and rethinked in some reasonable way, or to postpone it for some substantially longer time. But don't do this so that it becomes effective at the beginning of the next parliamentary term, when the new minister really comes to it like he's blind to violins. And it's not fair to ask him to be responsible for what was being prepared there for the previous four years for other political guarantees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. The minister doesn't want any more, he's canceling. So we continue the debate by speaking to Mr Jan Čižinský. František Vácha will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u48	Thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to present my amendment number 4488. It's very simple. These are preparatory classes of primary school, so that private schools can also establish them after the ministry's consent. The point is that we actually have three types of primary schools. They're municipal schools, then they're church schools and then they're private schools. Both municipal and ecclesiastical may establish preparatory classes, also after approval by the Ministry, but not private. I think it's an omission that it actually fell out of the law. I can't believe the school committee didn't get through with the recommendation, because the ministry really has everything under control and it's a kind of discrimination against private schools. So I'm putting this motion forward and asking for support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u49	Thank you. Now, Mr František Vácha in the debate, Věra Kovářová will be prepared. Once again, before I give him my word, I'm going to ask the House for peace because it hasn't lasted very long. Just a moment, Mr. Ambassador. We're gonna break up the bunches. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u50	Thank you for the floor. I come up with an amendment, but before I get to it, I would have a few comments on the previous debate. I didn't want to take any factual notes so that I wouldn't sort this discussion out. I would like to mention one thing that my colleague Baxa mentioned here, and that is the right to know what the study of a student entering high school is going to be like and what it is going to look like and what it is being tried from. In fact, regional or secondary education students don't have that certainty. But in college, we have to follow it. If we change or accredit a study program that's somehow modified, the students who get in must graduate in the original study program. That is what I think is a fundamental thing that we should be aware of, and in some way apply this to, say, regional education, the secondary education. [[10.30 hours]] Another thing I would like to stress, which no one here has said about mathematics. We have to realize that math graduation, that we're actually dealing with something that we don't have to revolve around. This isn't about math graduation, this is about the knowledge the students get. And whether he's graduating math or graduating math, if he does math, doesn't mean he can do math. It's about whether he'll learn the math during those four years in high school. This means that we should focus on the quality of teaching, on the revision of the framework education programmes, and that is simply not enough for us for the two years. The TOP 09 will support the government's proposal, it will not support the displacement, the shift proposed by the group of Members for those two years. I think the key is to focus on teaching, not graduating. I would also like to say that this is where some Members chase about the resolution of the school committee. I would like to say that these resolutions are not adopted unanimously. There are people who vote against or abstain. This means, of course, the resolution put forward here as a resolution by the expert body is majority, but it is not unanimous. That's what I think it's important to say. In addition, the two-year grace period and the framework training programmes. During the discussions on the Minister's Education Committee, I asked if we were able to change the framework education programmes during those two years - and that is what I aim at teaching mathematics, not graduating. We must be aware, and I will not go into detail as to why the National Institute for Education and the National Institute for Further Education were merged into this new National Institute for Education. I think it was also partly because these institutes were not able to prepare a quality change in the framework education programmes under previous guarantees, and these are the key players in charge of the framework education programmes. So now there's been a change, and I asked the minister, and that's not a criticism of the ministry, it's a criticism of the state in which we are now, the ministry and these institutes are not able to prepare a really similar change in the framework education programs to show it in the quality of mathematics teaching so that at the end it doesn't really matter if those students are graduating from mathematics, but it's important how many of the study programmes they're going to undergo years of mathematics, what they're going to learn there and what teachers are going to teach them. This means changing the framework education programmes, changing the philosophy of teaching mathematics and changing the concept of teacher mathematics. That's what I think are points we should focus on, not math school. So that was my comment on the other one. And now I would like to present to you an amendment that does not concern mathematics at all. The author of the amendment is a colleague, our President Markéta Adamová Pekarová - Pekarová Adamová, or vice versa, simply Markéta, and concerns the registration of pre-school education. The amendment to the Higher Education Act in 2017 introduced the Institute of Pre-school Education for the period - the first half of May preceding the school year in which the child is to enter pre-school education. That means there was a change in 2017. This was justified by the fact that there is verification of the child's school knowledge and the prevention of unjustified delays in compulsory schooling. During those three years, however, the number of children where there would have been a change has not been proven to be changed, this has been a shift in the registration for another year, so the May deadline for entry into kindergartens also causes problems especially in larger cities, which are faced with overcrowding capacity. Admission to kindergartens is subject to administrative procedure. In connection with its length, parents often do not know at the end of summer vacations that their child will get into a given kindergarten and that it has been accepted, and then they are forced to look for alternative solutions, so the situation is complicated for parents on their possible planned return to work. Therefore, we are proposing an amendment aimed at returning to the original adaptation before 2017, which does not set a precise deadline for entry into kindergartens, but the deadline is set on the basis of an agreement between the head of the kindergarten and the founder. The amendment was consulted with the heads of kindergartens and with the professional public. And thank you for your attention. I will sign up for this press, which is number 4493, in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u51	I thank Mr František Vách. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová, duly signed up for the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u52	Ladies, excuse me, ladies and gentlemen - ladies, of course too, but dear colleagues, let me present to you the amendment which I, together with my colleagues Petr Gazdík and Mr Barton. This amendment concerns the objectives of education and we are introducing amendments concerning financial, information and digital literacy. I say in advance that I am not one of those who have a historical memory about this law, but the objectives that are stated in the law or the law itself is from 2004, which I do not know whether these objectives have changed in any way since then, but what I know for certain is that time has changed and that time will change and, of course, will bring new significant challenges. The first amendment point concerns information literacy. Of course, it is clear that our children, our students and our students will be in the years to come, and I think that they will face a great deal of pressure on education today, and I think that they need to make the situation easier for them. They will need to be able to work in a context, and it will also be good for us to get closer to developed countries. Students need to be trained so that they can use contemporary information resources at a relevant level to go to professions with unique knowledge, which will be their competitive advantage. We are also, of course, facing information overloads. Just a little example. In 2016, as mankind, we produced as much data as we could produce in paper form in 5,000 years. So it is important that our children are able to evaluate when and why they will need information, where to find them, how to use them and whether this information is relevant. Another amendment point is financial literacy. This plays an important role in the decision-making processes of citizens in financial and monetary operations. If this is absent, then, of course, people fall into debt traps and endless executions, and they fall, of course, on the income of the individual and in the final series then on the state, and he must bail out financial problems in the form of social benefits. So let's prevent something similar from happening in the case of information or digital literacy. [[10.40 hours]] Last but not least, we are introducing an amendment point concerning digital literacy. We want our children to have the competences necessary to identify, understand, interpret, create, communicate and use digital technologies effectively and safely. If people don't have enough digital literacy, it can lead to digital exclusion. Today it concerns, for example, seniors, people with disabilities, etc. But it appears across the entire population, and that means that to some extent, everyone is at risk. So much for our three literacy. And we are also introducing one amendment point, which highlights the importance of acquiring thorough knowledge of modern history, both on the world and on the European and national scale. Emphasis should be placed on the history of the 20th and 21st centuries. So much about our amendment. And I will join him in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u53	Thank you, Mrs Věra Kovářová. Now, therefore, in the general debate, the Member. You have peace, you can... you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u54	Hello, colleagues. I would like to present an amendment which is recorded in the system under House number 4534. This amendment specifies the powers in the award of tests of uniform examination and the submission of tests to the common part of the graduation exam, which originally belongs to the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and which it can delegate to the Centre. The Education Act provides that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports determines the content of the examinations of the common part of the graduation exam and that the Centre for Learning Results prepares catalogues and tests of the common part of the graduation exam. Section 78a of the Education Act provides for the obligation of the Ministry of Catalogues to publish sufficiently in advance. Similarly, in the case of individual examinations under the admission procedure at secondary schools, it is stated that the Centre provides for the preparation of the single testing. Thus, in the text of the law, the roles of the individual actors providing these tests, in particular in relation to the award of tests, are not clearly defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u55	I thank Mr Kubík for his speech. And I'm asking if there's anyone else reporting from the scene. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Rapporteur? It's not. It's not like that. We can therefore continue the debate in detail, which I am initiating. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. So the first one entered into a detailed debate is Mr Karel Rais, and Jan Čižinský will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u56	Thank you. As I said, I have two amendments there. The first relates essentially to the introduction of the oral part at graduation, so that the influence of the school is more pronounced, and at the same time with the recognition of the language certificate. So I'm signing up for House press 4472. And in the latter, I only have the language certificate for those cases if there were a situation that the amendment prior to that would not have been approved. So I sign up for Amendment 4473. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u57	I thank Mr Rais. Now, Mr Jan Čižinský, Mr Jan Kubík will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u58	I apply to print 4488 on preparatory classes so that private schools can also establish them after the ministry's consent. The reasoning was given here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u59	Thank you. Now, Mr Jan Kubík, will prepare František Vácha. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u60	So hello again. I would like to sign up for the amendment under number 4534, which regulates the school law so that it is clear that the award of tests for both the uniform exam and the passing of tests for the common part of the graduation exam belongs originally to the Ministry, but which can delegate them to the Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u61	Thank you. And now, Mr František Vácha, Mr Špičák will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u62	Thank you for the floor. Well, I guess it's the right thing to do. I am signing up for the amendment of my colleague Markéta Pekarová Adamová and my number 4493. It's the kindergarten filing dates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u63	Thank you. Now, Mr Špičák, Mrs Melková will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to sign up here to Amendment 4536, which concerns the maximum transparency of the results and the course of the entrance and graduation exams while maintaining the protection of personal data. Thank you for his support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u65	I thank Mr Julius Špičák. Now, Mrs Melková, Věra Kovářová will be ready. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u66	Hello, Dear House, dear Vice-President. I would like to sign up with the amendment to House document number 4538 in which it goes - I would briefly justify it. The proposal allows schools and educational establishments to adjust restrictions or a complete ban on the use of mobile phones or other electronic devices. It is necessary to consider each school or school establishment which access they choose under local conditions. So I think every director will welcome this change. The effectiveness of this provision is proposed on the 15th day following its publication so that schools and school establishments can use it as soon as possible. I would also like to point out that the use of electronic equipment will, however, always be made possible to the extent necessary if this device is used to the extent necessary for health reasons. That's all I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u67	Thank you, Mrs Melková. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová, Lukáš Bartoň will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u68	Allow me to sign up for the amendment that I am proposing with Petr Gazdík and Lukáš Barton. It is conducted under number 4494 and relates to the general objectives of education and the amendment points concern information, financial and digital literacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u69	Thank you. Now, Mr Lukáš Bartoň, Mr Jiří Mihola will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u70	Thank you for the floor. I am reporting for Amendment 4390. It is an amendment concerning the recognition of secondary education for students who have failed their graduation exams, who are currently ending with the recognition of primary education. To make a brief comment. We've already discussed this here during the parliamentary amendment of the law, so it's in similar terms, only there are added conservatoires. I also submitted this proposal to the school committee, which unfortunately did not approve it, where a group of people, who say it's too much, joined with a group of people who say it's not enough. And that's why it didn't work. So I hope there's a compromise at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u71	I thank Mr Bartoň. Now, Mr. Jiří Mihola. Before there is a speaker's desk, I state the apology of Mr. Josef Hájek from 11 to 14 hours for family reasons. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u72	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I would like to sign up for an amendment which is inserted into the system under number 4539. It's a preamble of the school law. We have also discussed it in the House several times. In short, when I sum up, it is about signing up for an ancient, Jewish, Christian roots in the history and culture of Europe, as well as for humanistic traditions. I think that this is an up-to-date question and it is important that this is enshrined in the school law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-004-016.u73	I thank Mr Mihol. I'm asking who else to discuss in detail. If I don't see anybody, I am ending the debate in detail. Since I have not been in charge of this point all this time, I am asking the rapporteur if there has been any motion for a vote. I didn't notice it. If not, I can end the second reading of this proposal. Thank you to Minister Plag, thank you to the rapporteur and end with item 16. The next item is:
