ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-007-375.u1	375. Motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies laying down rules for videoconferencing during meetings of committees and commissions of the Chamber of Deputies /Department document 5113/ Mr Marek Benda is reporting for a general debate. Can you sign up one more time, please? Thank you. I ask the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Radek Vondráček, to present the House document. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-007-375.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the pandemic, the ways of the various parliaments around the world are changing rapidly. Some parliaments sit unchanged, still act in the same way, some do not sit down at all and transfer their competences to some of their institutions, and some in different forms begin to use so-called distant negotiations, when the concept begins to loosen up in person and various measures are being taken for videoconferencing, audio and visual links between Members of Parliament. I have here, for example, a letter from my counterpart, Igor Zorčič, President of the Slovenian Parliament, who writes to me on 24 April that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has allowed Members to work and hold a long-term plenary session if two thirds of Members so decide. For example, the Norwegian Parliament has suspended the rules of procedure that require a personal presence. In New Zealand, they allow committees to be held remotely. In Poland, the Rules of Procedure have been amended, so both by plenary and by committees can sit in a distant form, if the President of Sejma so decides and after hearing the Council of Elders. In the UK, she allowed the House of Commons committees to negotiate remotely. The condition is that the use of the system has been agreed by the President of the House. In Argentina, both chambers can act and vote on Zoom. Both chambers can also hold remote meetings in Brazil at the end of March. In Belgium, the Zoom approach is being used, which I do not know exactly what it is. In Chile, the upper chamber can act in a distant way. They can work remotely in Finland, but voting is not admissible. In France - National Assembly - committees can act remotely, but votes are not allowed in them, they also test Zoom. They are in the process of adoption in Portugal. In Romania, they use such a combined system to ensure a personal vote by means of a password where a Member applies to the system, receives a password via SMS and then can vote. At the same time, a distant debate has also been organised. In Greece, they do not allow distant negotiations, but they have other measures, such as voting through the door, they can vote in the mail - we will probably not put that in place here. In Spain, Parliament has introduced the possibility of a distant vote, including a distant debate. In Norway, the committees have a remote way. And in the United States - Congress refused to go to distant meetings in March, but it is now intensively a distant way of voting or voting on behalf, because many Members cannot come to Washington. Some of our committees have already held their meetings through videoconferencing. However, the Rules of Procedure do not regulate such a procedure, which is why the legislative department prepared the draft rules for the conduct of such videoconferencings from the instruction of the Head of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies. It is our advantage that the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and, in fact, the Constitution are designed in a very general manner and allow a resolution governing the details of such a procedure to be adopted. In mid-April, they had the opportunity to comment on the chairmen and secretaries of the various committees. Subsequently, I also introduced the text to the presidents of the MPs who had the opportunity to comment. And then you were sent material, House document 5113, which is the result of these comments and I hope is an expression of some sort of majority consensus. On the basis of comments from the Pirate Party concerning the public meeting and KDU-ČSL concerning the possibility of Members not members of the committee to participate, the legislative department has also drawn up amendments, amendments to the text of this resolution, and now it is simply up to us to discuss this material in some way and decide whether we will adopt a similar resolution and continue to allow it in exceptional circumstances - I would really like to emphasise this, in exceptional circumstances - even remote committee discussions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-007-375.u3	I am now launching a general debate in which Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal claims priority. Mr. Marek Benda will be ready. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-007-375.u4	Thank you. I'd apologize to the House's great-grandfather for getting ahead of him. The fundamental point of view of this proposal is that it is indeed an extraordinary measure, as defined in point 2, because the fundamental concern is that the public, or this way of acting, would be used to limit public access, for example, whether represented by interest organisations or by the media, to discuss committees, which I think no one wants. And that's where the amendment I'm going to read comes from. However, as I say, for us, this is an extraordinary measure that we are approving here for this extraordinary situation, which seems to be ending, but we all know that it may be possible to repeat itself, whether in the near future or in the rest of the parliamentary term, for the next two years, even for some other reason. And in this view, I see this as a kind of experimental step, and I think it will be very much to consider the next House in the next parliamentary term at the start of its mandate, whether this resolution attracts between the permanent ones, or whether it will be postponed and, if it needs to be dealt with again, perhaps with new experience and new knowledge and technical possibilities, it will adopt other, more precise resolutions that will need to be verified - some things that work and do not work. Here I would like to stop at the topic of security, whether the security of whether the stream or the broadcast that is going on there at the videoconference is secured from the point of view of classified information, because I think the current situation we have here cannot generally be considered as sufficiently secure from the point of view of dealing with classified materials on committees or committees of inquiry and others, which then deal with safe information. There I would not really recommend this procedure in general at this time. - Here's someone's forgotten phone. - So much for security. [[15.40 hours]] And here is the second question, and that is the performance of the mandate personally versus the performance of the mandate by a personal presence. That's two different things, of course, and I don't want to let it loosen up in general, but it's important to think that even when you see someone on the webcam, they don't have to be there. This may be confirmed by some students who are currently studying remotely, that the photo you stick to in front of the camera is able to replace it easily, and then you can change your voice or something like that. So even a person's presence isn't actually completely secured by a clean display of a person, so then, if this is to be applied in the long term and fully, the question is that there really is a system of signing and double-checking of the presence and voting, if it should be applied in some way massively. As I have already mentioned, our fundamental reservation for the current application in the way it is proposed, the public of those committees, where I would like to present an amendment, i.e. to make paragraph 4 sound: At the beginning of the committee's negotiations through videoconferencing, unless otherwise provided in the Rules of Procedure Act, the committee may conclude that the meeting or part thereof is not public. The public may, as a general rule, be provided by direct visual and audio transmission, where appropriate by the acquisition and publication of an alert, provided that technical and organisational conditions so permit. And I would like to point out that if we were to use a system whose technical conditions do not allow us to record, then perhaps we should choose another technical system. So much for me. As I say, it is a temporary measure that I understand for us, but I will understand completely if someone doesn't want to do it, because there have been a lot of security incidents around those videoconferencing applications lately, especially about the Zoom application that has been mentioned here. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-007-375.u5	I now have a point of fact, so Patrik Nacher will perform in front of Mr Mark Benda. Ambassador, two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-007-375.u6	Good afternoon. Now I have listened thoroughly to the Vice-President of the House - he is not listening to me now, so I will wait... thank you - I have listened thoroughly now and I would like to clarify one fundamental thing, and that is some consistency of these positions. Personally, I am not much of a supporter of the videoconferencing process, especially for those institutions that have public access, or even where the public might be able to perform, which is a council. So I'd separate the authorities where the public doesn't have access, okay. Where the public has access, that's level two. And where the public has access and can still participate actively. But I would like to know in that case how your words correspond, for example, with what is happening in Prague, where your mayor even wanted a video conference at the hearing of the council when you were talking about the presence of the public, the professional public and the like, where they were directly involved. The public may be here, but it can't interfere. That means, I'm asking for a consistent attitude now, because, for example, council meetings are now being conducted remotely through videoconferencing. There's a sound going off and so on and so on, it's got these flies. So I'm just asking, it's not a provocative question, but I'm talking about the consistent attitude, because we fight about it in Prague sometimes. And here you have a slightly different attitude, just as it is actually related to you as the Pirate Party to videoconferencing and to the online negotiations of different types of organs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-007-375.u7	I will now request a speech from the MP... Vice-President, you've already chosen each other, so please. And you're going to react to the facts, or the general ones? Really, okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-007-375.u8	So only a factual remark briefly. I am not from Prague, I don't even follow exactly what is happening in Prague, so direct your questions to those who are primarily concerned. However, as far as the basic position is concerned, if organisational and technical conditions allow it, it is, of course, ideal if the public can participate, especially if it has the right to participate and perform. I understand that this is limited in the case of videoconferencing at present and in the current technical possibilities. Of course, I don't know exactly what it's used for there. After all, in the wording I propose, it is clearly stated that in the case of the public, as we are used to here in the House, a visual transmission should be provided, which I think is the basic form. This means that the public meeting of the committee, which takes place video conferencely, is being carried out somewhere outside where the public can monitor it. At least that's the basis. Of course, it does not give the right to respond and enter in general, which is the question of some better technical system, where the present representative of the public, who is watching, can possibly apply in some way. But I don't know if you know of any technical system that would allow this sophisticated classification and the powers of the President at the moment, at the same time as security and stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-007-375.u9	Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will now make a point of fact. I have no other factual point here, so Mr. Marek Benda will be prepared. You're still ready, you're showing. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-007-375.u10	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to answer your response to my colleague Nacher that there is a fundamental difference between the committee's discussions in the Chamber of Deputies, which is generally public, by the Council of the City of Prague, which is usually closed when we tried to convince our coalition partners to be open. Unfortunately, we failed to do so, unlike the previous period when the ANO movement ruled, the chairmen of opposition clubs have access to the board, thanks to which a colleague of Nacher can also be there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-007-375.u11	And now, in fact, Mr Patrik Nacher responds. And Mr. Marek Benda is still ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-007-375.u12	Thank you. I'm gonna make it clear, because now that comment from my colleague Ferjenčík was useless. Firstly, the video conferencing takes place both in Prague and in committees, and it is open to the public, not to the council. When it was at tribal council, we approved it in some way when the pandemic was at the top, but in those committees it limits to a certain extent - I am not saying it makes it impossible - public participation. One. Secondly, the participation of the opposition club presidents has just taken place in the past period. And this council continued to do so. That's right. I was sitting there. I saw a colleague, most often, I think, Jakub Michálek and other presidents of opposition clubs sitting there. That means this was just an inheritance. You really should ask that. You keep doing this, and it's so good.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-007-375.u13	I will therefore now ask for Mr Marek Benda's speech, so far the last application for the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-007-375.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I would perhaps ask Mr President to lead Members to order. And when they argue about how they represent each other in Prague, I don't think that's part of the point setting out the rules of the Chamber of Deputies. I've heard such horrible things about this in the last few weeks that are taking place at these video conferencing sessions, I'd rather not say it. I would ask very much not to approve of the material at this time. Let us adjourn the discussion, order it to the Organizing Committee or the Constitutional and Legal Committee. In my opinion, this brings nothing new and useful at all, frankly. Several videoconferences have already taken place here on various types of bodies, committees, subcommittees. No one's opposed it, and it's always about whether or not someone's contradicting it. [[15.50 hours]] And I think the wording here, as we have it presented, really brings more complications than benefits. Above all, it is not clear who, under what circumstances, will take place in the form of videoconferencing. [[decide]] I had a meeting with the Foreign Committee and I have to appreciate that Ondřej Veselý managed to quite manage it, but that was a simple meeting. Any more complicated meeting will just be almost unsolvable. And who's supposed to decide that? Those provisions of the Committee's meetings may be held only if the chairman of the Committee so decides or if at least two fifths of the members of the Committee so request. So can the chairman of the committee decide at any time? If they ask for two fifths, does it mean that the chairman has to decide or doesn't have to decide? Or is it really up to him? Here's what I think are things that are very dangerous there. In addition, there is a popular one only in particularly justified cases, such as emergencies. Okay, but that's actually what they say, there might be another time. It can happen some other time, it doesn't just have to be in emergencies. We don't really need that for the next two weeks. It's totally necessary. If an emergency should be declared again sometime in the summer or autumn, then I think it's a good idea for a House body to come together and think about how the rules will be ensured, how the protection of minorities will be ensured in this case. It's really that easy to say, so with video conferencing... There is a condition in point 5 - if all members of the Committee have the means referred to in point 1. I guess we all have computers. But does that necessarily mean we're connected at the moment? Can I object to such an organ just because I'm on the wrong signal, for example? Mr Michálek and Mrs Válková are not here, but we have experienced the meeting of the subcommittee for the electronicisation of justice, where it was almost at the border, because Mrs Válková was falling out so continuously, coming back, falling out and coming back. These are all problems that I think are very difficult to solve. Same thing at point 9. The person participating in the videoconferencing shall ensure that the conduct of non-public videoconferencing or part of it does not take part in other than authorised persons and that the deliberations of the videoconferencing are not accessible to those other persons. It's also not quite trivial, especially if we're locked up in our apartments. Maybe I don't have the key to my room to lock myself in there, and I don't want the kids to come through. [[Fun.]] I don't know how to do this. These are such pious desires that I think are very complex in reality. The same - the chairman of the committee is to monitor who is present. The chairman of the committee may try to monitor who is present if the windows are in that application by chance, but the chairman of the committee is sometimes unable to say who is physically present on the committee because people are leaving and coming. I'd really like to interrupt and order somebody. I agree that the President has tried in some situation, but also some time ago, when it looked more serious, and I think that we do not need this for this state of legislative emergency. On the contrary, it is highly dangerous for us to discuss the points brought about by the government in a state of legislative emergency. Highly dangerous for committee chairmen to decide which committee will be public and which committee will be personal and which committee will only be through remote access. And in order for it to be some longer-term adjustment that might make it possible for the future, I find the material too raw. So I would really like to interrupt this point, or order some body of the House, either to the Organizing Committee or to the Constitutional Legal Committee, because I don't think we need it for the moment and that we've been able to agree here so far. It is also a testimony to this day, when we are just sitting here a hundred, which is also an abnormal state, and we did not modify the Rules of Procedure, that all those who are not here are excused, and that we consider it normal that they are excused, and that we simply agreed not to threaten the House as a whole, that the second hundred must always be available if a disease occurred in that first hundred by chance. So let's just cut it off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-007-375.u15	Mr. Ambassador, how am I supposed to understand this now? Is this a procedural motion to interrupt, or shall we give the President the floor? [[Messenger. With a gesture, Benda calls on President Vondraèek to perform.]] Because then you'd have to say until when, but we'll give the President of the House some room. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-007-375.u16	Thank you for the floor. I might add, thank God, that we are not in such an emergency situation that we really have to accept it. Now, basically, these committees might be implementing it next week, but they're gonna get together anyway, I think, maybe in normal form. So the material should really be in the future, for futuro, and I don't have a problem with the process moving to the committee to continue the discussion. So I would like to join my colleague Benda, and I would like to suspend this point in a process -- well, when the Constitutional and Legal Committee has offered itself, it is up to the Constitutional and Legal Committee to discuss it. [[Laughs in plenary.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-007-375.u17	I'm gonna sing because that's what we should vote on. We will vote on this, it is Mr Marek Benda's procedural proposal, which, of course, the President of the House of Radek Vondráček stated that we will interrupt the discussion of this proposal before the constitutionally-legal committee. I've got an application for check-out, so I'm gonna check you out, and you're all gonna sign up with the voting cards again. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 197 entered 98 Members, for 97, against none. The proposal has been adopted and I am interrupting the discussion of this press until the constitutionally-legal committee has been discussed. Now, let's open another point and we're talking about
