ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u1	373. Government bill amending Act No. 159/2020 Sb., on compensation bonus in connection with crisis measures related to the occurrence of CORS CoV-2 /house printing 850/ - shortened negotiations Now we have to decide whether or not under Paragraph 99 (1) of the EC Treaty. 5 The terms and conditions for the discussion of the above draft law shall be reduced. [[12.00 hours]] I'm asking if there are applications for a brief hearing. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. We'll make the decisions. Before I check you all out, I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will decide that conditions remain, in the resolution that I will make. "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 159/2020 Coll., on compensation bonus in connection with crisis measures in connection with the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, House printing 850, in a short hearing. I've started voting 191 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 191, 86 present, 86 pros, against no one. The motion was accepted. The conditions for discussing the 373 press in a short hearing are therefore met. [[correct point]] I'll hand over the meeting management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u2	Hello. We voted for the short-term negotiations, and I am asking the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová to present the proposal. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u3	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce the bill amending the compensation bonus law. The objective of the proposed bill is to extend the scope of the persons entitled to the compensation bonus to the partners selected by the limited liability companies. Our intention is to mitigate the effects of current restrictions on the economic activity related to coronavirus on persons who are engaged in small limited liability companies and whose activity in practice is often in no way different from self-employment. These persons are not entitled to a compensatory bonus under the current rules, which now changes the proposed amendment. This is another step in the gradual provision of support to other groups of entrepreneurs. The compensation bonus was aimed at a clearly defined and numerous range of self-employed persons in the first stage. In the second stage, the time period for which the bonus is granted has been extended and now comes to a number of grantings to members of selected limited liability companies. In their case, this provision requires greater address and more precise targeting. The proposal therefore defines certain new conditions to ensure that aid is directed primarily to cases of small and active limited liability companies whose economic activity is materially close to self-employment. The claim for compensation bonus is always made to the partner - the natural person. This excludes the possibility of misuse in the form of unauthorized use of the bonus by a legal person who would subsequently be revoked. Another condition is to limit the number of members to a maximum of two, or all partners must be members of the same family. The draft law defines a time, income and residential test ensuring that it is a company with a certain history and economic activity linked to the Czech Republic. At the same time, it will not be possible for it to be a company in economic or other problems, i.e. a company in bankruptcy or liquidation, or an unreliable payer under the Value Added Tax Act. The existing amount of the compensatory bonus and the bonus period shall be retained. The compensation bonus will continue to be paid to the financial authorities and will be maintained by the current simple and flexible process model, which has already proven itself in practice. In practice, the need to lay down certain additional conditions in the case of members of a limited company would likely lead to a certain extension of the time necessary for processing individual applications. This shift should not be too dramatic. As with the compensatory bonus, representatives of the Chamber of Tax Advisors participated in the preparation of this proposal, namely I would like to thank Mr Ing, the Head of the Tax Administration Methodology Section. Hajduška, but also the Association of Trade and Tourism of the Czech Republic, the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders of the Czech Republic and the Chamber of Commerce. I would like to ask you to support this amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u4	Thank you, Minister. The Committee on Budgets, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, adopted a resolution delivered to us as House Press 850/1. I ask the rapporteur of the budget committee of Mr Kamal Farhan to inform us of the committee's deliberations. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the Minister has given this bill very much detail, I would just briefly mention this proposal. Act No. 159/2020 Sb., on the compensation bonus in relation to crisis measures related to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, was granted so-called compensation bonus for self-employed persons. However, the present form of the compensatory bonus does not fall on the members of small limited liability companies established for profit, although their activities in practice are often not materially different from self-employment. In view of the fact that the existing form does not allow the members of these limited liability companies to provide a compensatory bonus, it is proposed to extend the mitigation of the effects of the restrictions on the economic activity related to coronavirus to those persons, by means of the amendment of Act No. 159/2020 Coll., on compensation bonus in relation to crisis measures in relation to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus. That's a brief thing to say. And now I would like to make a motion for a resolution to the Committee on Budgets. The Committee on Budgets sat on this press yesterday and I would now like to make a resolution on the Government Bill amending Law No. 159/2020 Coll., on compensation bonus in relation to crisis measures in relation to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus. This is the House press 850, which was discussed in a state of legislative emergency. Following Mr Farhan's opening words and Mr Farhan's report and the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to close its negotiations no later than 24 hours on 6 May 2020; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to amend Act No. 159/2020, on the compensation bonus in relation to the crisis measures related to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2, the House's press 850, agreed without comments. - No amendments have yet been tabled on the Committee yesterday, so it is not commented there, but colleagues from the Committee on Budgets or others have announced that they will put their amendments here in plenary, and I assume that we will be familiar with them today. V. It empowers me, as rapporteur of the Committee, to present this resolution to the Assembly of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make legislative technical adjustments accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u6	Thank you, rapporteur. We will now decide whether to hold a general debate. We will therefore decide by vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 192. 92 Members registered, for 66, against no one. We will have a general debate. As usual, Mr Kubíček has applied. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As usual, I would like to propose a limitation of the time for Members to speak in a general and detailed debate for five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u8	Yes, a procedural proposal has been made. I will vote on this proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 193, 92 Members registered, for 43, against 6. The motion was not accepted. The debate will continue indefinitely. First to the general debate, with priority rights, entered by President Bartošek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u9	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The bill is certainly commendable and deserves support, but in any case I have one question that is factual. In the Act on Compensation Bonus, § 6 para. 2, which says: "The bonus is a return on the income tax of natural persons from dependent activities." When I studied the material, I was unable to determine the meaning of this provision for a long time. Indeed, the purpose of the compensatory bonus is not to reduce the income tax paid by the person in question, and it does not even say that. I found the answer only in the Tax Budget Act. It determines that the regions are 8,92 % and the municipalities are 23,58 % of the national gross tax revenue or the advances on personal income tax from dependent activities. At the same time, it says that the national gross tax return is the funds collected during the financial year by the tax administrator less the funds recovered. In summary, the provisions of Section 6 (2) of the Act do not apply. 2 The compensation bonus law states that it is a refund on the income tax of natural persons from dependent activities. Thus, if it is a return, the money package is reduced as a tax on the income of natural persons from dependent activities, which is then to be divided between the state, the region and the municipality. Consequently, the costs of the payment of the compensatory bonus will also be borne indirectly by municipalities and regions, as this will reduce them by the relevant proportion of their income from this tax. It is not, therefore, a payment purely from the state budget, but will result in a reduction in the revenue of the budgets of municipalities and regions. I cannot identify myself with this because I do not see the reason why budgets of municipalities and regions should be reduced in this way and in this way the regions and municipalities are being punished for having managed well in previous years and saving up a certain reserve that they are now determined to use. For this reason, I have prepared an amendment which is very simple and I will sign up for it in a detailed debate. Let me put this very simply. Paragraph 6 is amended as follows: 2 which is new to the fact that the compensatory bonus is a contribution to a natural person paid out of the State budget. I believe that this law and this form of support are more fair than what the government is currently presenting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u10	Thank you. Mr Dominik Feri will now speak in the general debate, and Mrs Šafránková will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u11	The MP is commenting on anything I do or say in front of me, Mr President. It's a very nice welcome. Now he criticized me for going too slow. I'm sorry, I'll speed up. Ladies and gentlemen, the length of my speech will be proportional to the speed of my walk and also to the extent of my amendment. I'm changing one word in this proposal. I thank the Minister for submitting this proposal. I don't have to say that, as opposition, we criticize when it just came to the point that the little ones were supposed to support themselves first, then the big ones, but we accepted that it just had to wait for it. And what I'm suggesting is that we change the number of associates, virtually. the restriction on entitlement to this compensation bonus from two to three. It's when you say three partners at the Eseróček's, as if it meant that the limited liability company had to be less affected by the middle, large, or crisis, or that it might have touched some other government-prepared program, but it doesn't necessarily have to be. And I started getting e-mails that point to this. For example: We are a small eseróčko, we are in the tourism business, we are three companions, one companion is not active, we want some help. We think we should have a claim on her. But the dictum of this proposal does not give rise to a claim. And that's why a simple change from two to three partners. I'm sure you can argue, because there will be a very wide range of entitled persons, entitled entities. Yes, but I believe that the benefits for those who really need this help will be good, appropriate and will not burden the state budget, I believe, more than would be necessary. So I will read this amendment later in a detailed debate and ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u12	Thank you. Mrs Šafránková will now appear, Mrs Kovářová will prepare herself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u13	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the SPD has long supported tradesmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and family companies, and we are pleased that the government has tabled a proposal that the SPD has been promoting in the long term. Let me just briefly present the two amendments that I am proposing under the SPD. First of all, we want to adjust the maximum number of members of limited liability companies where each of them is entitled to receive this compensatory bonus. So we want to increase this number from two to three, so that the companions of the three-member eserócs will also have this right. And our second amendment concerns the definition of so-called. one family, because this approach, which the government shows in its proposal, has absolutely nothing to do with the Civil Code, which precisely defines Act 89/2012 Coll., the Civil Code, which is one of the basic codes of Czech law. There is therefore no reason for a special and time-limited amendment to another law to break these basic legal terms to a large extent. Therefore, I propose precisely in accordance with the Civil Code and also in order to support a wider and multi-generation family and small family companies in this difficult time as members of one family also for the purposes of this Act and for the purposes of entitlement to a compensatory bonus for members of limited liability companies to consider persons related in line direct, in line indirect and on the basis of the so-called so-called. Brother-in-law in accordance with the Civil Code, and also, of course, siblings, husbands, and possibly. partners under the law governing registered partnerships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u14	Thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová will be the next speaker in the general debate, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, allow me to comment on this bill and also present our amendments, including one resolution. Let me begin by saying that we welcome this proposal, which concerns the quotation marks of small eseróček and family companies, which are eseróček's, but we can call them, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, or the Minister said, disguised as a self-employed person, i.e. a la OSVČ. And I think it has been said many times in the past weeks in plenary that it is from this bill that a small eseroga fell out. So we're late, but we welcome a proposal like this. [[12.20 hours]] The first amendment concerns not the eserócs directly, but concerns those who do not yet receive the compensation bonus, and these are those who work, have employment, have employment as their main activity and the CFI as a secondary activity. Relaxation took place in the last proposal by means of an amendment, where the compensation bonus will be granted to those who have as their principal employment as main activity and are educators. Anyway, still - and I think each of us gets a number of e-mails, where there are cases where there are lower earnings on the employment relationship and there is a significantly higher income on the secondary activity at the IRS, so there are still a lot of these groups. That is why I dare once again to submit an amendment which is currently aimed at these people, these citizens. I am submitting an amendment together with my colleague Ferjenčík and Mrs Krutáková. I think it's a good idea. Given that these people can be from, for example, sports, academics and the like, that these groups of people need to be remembered. They may, because they do not fit into this compensatory bonus, get into serious financial problems, because their income will be significantly reduced only to income from employment, which is often rather lower in these cases. So I will be happy, colleagues and colleagues, if you will support this proposal. Or if it were possible that, after some time, the government might still consider such a proposal and present it in the House. Of course, we will join the amendment - and we have joined the amendment that we are proposing together with our colleagues, the main promoter is Mr Ferjenčík, and it concerns the negotiators, i.e. those who work at the DPP and DPČ. And now, therefore, the amendment that concerns the very limited liability companies. It is similar to the proposal put forward by Mrs Šafránková, and extends the body of compensation bonus among the partners involved, there are also members of the same family. And the following provisions of the law state who is considered to be family members. The definition includes only relatives in a number of direct, sibling and spouse or partner under the law governing registered partnerships. The submitters themselves, the Ministry of Finance, then admits in the explanatory memorandum that this is a narrower definition than that contained in other legislation. The above definition of a member of one family seems very narrow in this case and completely neglected by other members of the family, as we generally perceive them, and the petitioner of the law does not justify this concept in any way. Moreover, the Civil Code contains in § 700 the definition of the term "family race'. The term "family race" was also inspired by the petitioners of the amendment, i.e. we who propose to amend the bill in such a way that a cousin or person is considered to be a member of one family, for example. There may be cases where there are members of the company and relatives who would not fall within the definition set out in the Government Bill. Perhaps at this point, I would like to ask the Minister whether he considers cousins or brother-in-laws to be members of one family, which, in such cases, in the companies we are talking about, can happen. So I also ask for the support of this amendment, which we see as very logical. The last document is not an amendment, but it is rather a proposal for the Minister, for the Ministry of Finance and the Government, whether they would consider any further adjustments that are currently being made to these small limited liability family companies, and then in a detailed debate, I will read the resolution. Of course, we welcome the Ministry of Finance's efforts to address the situation of limited liability companies, which have a maximum of two partners, or the partners are members of one family. However, there are many of these companies where the partner is also their employee, i.e. they pay for themselves health insurance and social insurance premiums. Given the nature of these companies, as the Ministry of Finance also states, i.e. the petitioner, it is de facto in quotation marks disguised by the Ministry of Finance and therefore these companies should also be subject to health and social insurance relief. These companies, which are also entities of the compensatory bonus, cannot carry out their activities as a result of a health or crisis risk, and therefore have a significant income loss. On the other hand, they still pay the salary from which they pay the statutory premiums. And since these associates do not reach support under the Antivirus programme, discrimination is taking place against these companies. Due to the scope of the time period since the presentation of the bill and its discussion, it has not been possible to submit the above proposals in legislative form, and therefore we propose a resolution that will make it easier for the Government to draw up a draft of such a law. The draft law should unite the remission of insurance payments at the CFI and employees in small s. r. o., i.e. those who are actually partners. It is precisely because they are referred to as disguised self-righteous, so it would be good for these ratios to be balanced and the above inequality to be eliminated. I think that, by giving a motion for a resolution, we assume that there might be some space for the Ministry of Finance or the Government to consider whether they will not support or produce such a proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u16	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, who has so far been the last to sign up for the general debate, will now be speaking in the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I very much welcome this proposal. In opposition, we have been calling for support for small eseróks for quite a long time, so I am glad that the government has come to our aid, and we agree with the solution chosen. We think a compensation bonus is a better way than a subsidy program. It's easier administratively. I must commend the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Administration that the real compensatory bonus is the best working out of these support programmes for people in the framework of the coronavirus crisis. And for this, the Ministry deserves to be commended. So I am glad that the government has put this forward, and we fully support the part with regard to greater support for the partners s. r. o. [[12.30 hours]] What we are missing there are some groups that we believe are not included in State aid programmes, and we think that they should be included. For this reason, I am proposing a very compromise amendment to support at least part of the negotiators. I'm presenting it with the representatives of all the opposition parties. It is a proposal that gives a compensatory bonus of CZK 350 per day to contractors who had a work agreement of over 3,000, or an agreement to carry out work of over CZK 10,000, i.e. about their agreements there are records, that is to say, it can be documented. The maximum amount of the bonus in addition to the CZK 350 per day is covered by the amount of their agreements for the first quarter of this year. This means that it will concern people who have received and lost money in January, February, March, as a result of the crisis. We have come to a difficult compromise, but we have come to terms with it, and that is, in order to apply only to people who now have the agreement suspended, that is, it is not drawn from it. We know that unfortunately some people fell out of it if they got fired completely from the agreement, but within some easier administration and in order for the proposal to be at least a little passable, we came out and really limited it only to those who have the agreement now suspended, virtually. they don't get a job. I very much beg to support this proposal, which would solve at least part of one important group of poor workers who are not receiving any State aid today. The second set of problems is how the conquests are conceived today. Unfortunately, the bill on the compensation bonus in the original version, as it passed through the House, ruled out completely the constituencies between the Ministry of Justice and employment. This led to a number of unfortunate situations where people with a small-time job lost all state support. For this reason, we are proposing several compromise options, which I will briefly justify. The first is a fairly broad proposal to combine or draw a bonus if you take less than the minimum wage on an employment ratio, or you have less than half-time, or you only work under the above-mentioned agreements, and then, of course, if you are a foster or a voluntary caregiver. In addition, I have presented this with colleagues in modified variants, which concern only contractors and foster parents and caregivers, and then only foster parents and carers. I'll stop by this group. The main argument of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for the complete abolition of the concourses was that Antivirus is here for employees. I think the argument doesn't really work because there are a number of cases where the minimum employment ratio wasn't affected by the crisis, but the dominant income from the trade was affected, so these people lost a vast majority of their income and didn't receive any State aid. But if we go through this argument that there's other support for employees, unemployment benefits, etc., I really don't understand why foster parents and volunteer caregivers who made the only mistake that they're involved in sickness insurance, but they can normally act as a self-employed person. Pensioners also receive a compensatory bonus when they do business, and I see no reason to treat foster parents differently. So please at least the minimalist version of her support, so that the foster parents are not completely absurdly excluded from the support. Thank you for supporting these proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u18	Thank you. Is anyone else reporting for the general debate, please? He's not reporting. I am ending the general debate. The Minister has an interest in the final word after the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u19	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Thank you for the debate. We've already played it partly on Monday with some representatives and I'm glad for it, because it's really important now that we have this more minority group - you know that we were dealing with the majority groups first. And I also thank you for thanking the Financial Administration, I think they really deserve it, because at a time when they are returning returns on income taxes and dealing with a lot of other things, they manage this agenda very well. That is why I volunteered, following the request of all representatives of the Chambers and Associations, that this bonus for s. r. o. be processed by the Financial Administration, and prepared the amendment of the Act by the Ministry of Finance, so that it would work just as well. I'll answer some of your comments. The first was President Bartošek, the issue of RUD. Well, it's a compensatory bonus, which is a terminus techicus that taxes already know. It is managed according to tax rules and today, in addition to real estate tax, which is 100% the income of municipalities, so basically all taxes are shared and there is no other way to do this than simply from an account. I know, okay, you're right. And at this point, we set it up like this. I would just like to remind myself of one thing, and we talked about it in the Senate, for example - a few figures: municipalities' tax revenues have increased from 170 billions over the last five years. in 2014 to 245 billion. in 2019, which is an increase of 44 percent. During this period there was twice an exceptional increase in the tax revenues of municipalities, namely in 2017 by 2.1 billion, in 2018 by billion, in both cases due to the increase in the share of municipalities in VAT by the amendment of the Act and by the fact that taxes were collected very well. [[Nesroz.]] Municipalities report a positive balance from 2012 to an average of 18.7 billion. CZK, with the second highest in the period mentioned in 2019, namely CZK 25.5 billion. The cumulative balance over the last five years has reached 149 billion. This was also reflected in the current balance in the accounts of municipalities, only the municipality, which is 215 billion. This positive development also affects the debt that has been declining since 2013 and would certainly continue this trend if not for the current situation. Between 2013 and 2018, the municipalities reduced their debt by 23.6 billion, which is about 26%. In 2019 it slightly increased, but it is true that more than 50 per cent of the municipalities have managed completely without debt until then. One last sentence. The Ministry of Finance and subsequently the Financial Administration did not have to take part in the assessment of the fiscal rule so far that some of the municipalities would be temporarily withheld part of their tax revenues, i.e. basically we are counting on this fall, because, of course, the decline will be about a little more than 10 per cent in both the state budget and public budgets, but according to our stress analysis even if it were 15 per cent, the municipalities will manage it without serious problems without having to take new loans. That's what we were debating, and I think that both the CFI and s. r. o. paid taxes in the past and participated in public budgets, and they belong to these... I think they're all of us. Well, I'd say that in a simple way. Next thing you know, they're contractors. I do not question you - and I will repeat it again and again - I do not question the need to support this minority group and repeat the clear facts. If they are brokers of up to CZK 10,000 and in addition to the CFI, according to the clear methodology of the Financial Administration, it is on its website, they reach the 25th, respectively. compensation bonus. If they're clean contractors up to 10,000, there's no record of them, and there's no other way than what the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs said earlier than dealing with it through a material emergency. If they are contractors over CZK 10,000 who pay the contributions, at this point the Czech Social Security Administration has records and the only possible way is the subsidy program, which the Minister also spoke of as preparing. Because the Financial Administration has no record. She would have to request registration from the Czech Social Security Administration and the whole process would be extended. That is the only reason why I will not agree to this amendment. [[12.40 hours]] So did we. We discussed it here yesterday, the foster home area. It's nothing against foster parents. We really appreciate their work. But the compensation bonus is guided by the philosophy, and that's his... That is why it is so easy to manage and why it works so well, as the opposition also appreciates. And that's because he's not burdened with any background checks right now. No ex ante control. Honest statements, money is being sent, unless, of course, all the formalities are in an honest statement. And control is theoretically an ex post. Therefore, any interaction with all legal relationships, which are based on a labour-based basis, was excluded because we have the issue of Antivirus or on the basis of the self-employed. As far as I'm concerned, that intersects the Financial Administration, because the bonus of those little eseróceks is going to be paid on the physical person, or under the birth number, so we're going to see it there, not the eserócek. And my foster father basically has, and I had it sent to me from the MPSV, and he has a particular reward, which in no way was cut short. The reward is dependent on the number of children. Of course, then there are other costs for the need of the child. So it's nothing against foster parents, it's a general principle based on sickness insurance and actually sort of... And that's to make sure one person doesn't get more out of those programs. Of course, you know that the incompatibility doesn't apply to the infirmary, it can be compatible. So that was the only reason. So there'd be these little employment relationships of up to 3,000, or a broker of up to 10,000, but another incompatibility. You object to me, and I've heard it before, I think on the budget committee, we have the educators there today. But, of course, those educators will mean that if they fill it out that they're an educator, they'll get the money, and that check is possible. At this point, it may not be because the Financial Administration does not know who is or is not an educator. So those are the only reasons. To those cousins, Mrs Kovářová, I would just say that if two associates want it, that one option, and they will be cousins, then let them be. But other than that, for the purposes of these family companies, there's a special definition discussed as being a close person, it's part of § 22 para. 1 Civil Code, as husband, registered partner, children, parents. So that's how we limited it. So in the other group, we got out of the originally intended single-member eseróček, we're there in two. With the other group, it could be x people, where we didn't limit it. And he's just gonna fill out in that honest statement that the name, birth number, residence and the relative ratio, and it's not going to be checked ex ante, of course, but it's going to be checked ex post, if necessary. We don't even expect that there's a lot of family companies. And then every partner gets it. Someone else was talking about the insurance, I think Mr. Ferjenčík. The partners don't pay any insurance in themselves, I just want to remind you. Insurance is an executive, not an associate. We're built on associates. And I guess that's all that's been said here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u20	Thank you. The rapporteur's final word? He's not interested. So I'm opening up a detailed debate. President Zbyněk Stanjura is in favour of the debate in detail. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u21	Thank you for the floor. I will briefly respond to some passages of the Minister's speech, especially with regard to the budgets of cities and municipalities. What the secretary said, with the numbers, there's nothing to agree with. However, we repeatedly give the government one thing to consider. We think the economy will need additional impulses, and we feel reasonable that the impulses will come from the municipal level. We propose that the government, for example, allocate about 10,5 billion from the government's budget reserve. CZK, divided between the municipalities by a simple key, per citizen a thousand crowns. That's the amount every citizen in their community can imagine. And it can be billed quite simply as for example the cost of elections, as the municipalities charge. That means a community with 600 inhabitants would get 600,000. The representative shall decide how to use them in the context of assistance. It is very likely that such small-scale orders will be received by local local companies that will need it as salt. Well, the council charges the state a very simple type of 600,000, we repaired the firehouse for 300,000, and for 300,000 we repaired two pavements or two pieces of the pavement in our village. I think it would really help. First of all, it would cover the outage of the municipalities, it certainly will be, and thanks to the fact that there will be a blackout in the state's tax revenue budget. Secondly, it would be a one-time thing, it would not burden the budgetary determination of taxes by the coming years and would be very useful. We think that a number of such projects are being prepared. I personally initiated and thank my colleagues from the Chamber of Deputies who are with me members of the Supervisory Board of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. We evaluated the grant titles that the fund publishes every year. There are about 500 million requests that have fulfilled all the requirements, they are prepared, only there is a lack of financial resources. [[For?]] I must say that, unanimously, all five members of the Supervisory Board have recommended to the State Fund Committee that the half-billion be released and that, once again, the money will travel to the cities and municipalities on the bike paths, the safe pavements, the light of the transition, all the projects that are ready and that have met all the prerequisites have been repaired. Then, of course, there is a group of projects that failed for various reasons, which we do not talk about. They simply did not meet the requirements of technical, legislative and so on. And I also think that in helping those public budgets, for example, regions, it would be good if the government released those 4 billion on roads II this year. and III. Class. If it's more than that, as I've heard, the government could do more than that, it'll be just fine. Again, it is money for projects that are essentially prepared. It's not gonna be any giant projects. And once again, there's a high probability that smaller local companies will do it. I think that would be the right help in the coming months, when, in particular, smaller companies will have a real problem with the performance of their contract activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u22	Thank you. Madam Secretary with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u23	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will respond to President Stanjura. No doubt it is true that investment will now be what will be the engine of the economy. And it should definitely be investments from local budgets. The investment activity in the past years, and it's a bit of a signature, let's be honest, even on the great results, not only the income tax, but also the small investment activity, quite small. I don't have a number for municipalities right now, but on average it was less than 60 percent of the counties. This means, on the contrary, that we encourage greater investment activity and count on it. Minister Dostálová has now had municipalities working at all, an overview of prepared projects under a building permit, where they can actually kick. And we will support this with a whole range of subsidy programmes, because this is very important, and we will be negotiating very soon with the government about the transfer of money from the EU funds, because the European Commission has released the opportunity to draw on the individual operational programmes according to the needs of each country. And we really want to talk about supporting mainly investment actions and actions on the territory of the municipalities. As regards road support II. and III. Class, I say it well, II. and III. class, so that's where we're counting on using the amount. Madam Secretary Dostálová has about 4 billion prepared, or a little over four billion, perhaps I am saying this inexactly, out of European money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u24	Thank you. President Stanjura with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u25	Thank you. Just a short reaction. Sometimes the difference between investment and property repair is very thin. It is very often for the assessment of an auditor or accounting officer. So I'd put in a good word to make the program easy to claim. I'm saying head money's the easiest thing the state can pay off fast. And I think it should be not only for investment, but also for property maintenance. Because if you make any technical modifications like I said, like the firehouses, somebody's gonna consider it an investment and somebody's gonna fix it. So let's not just talk about investment, but also about maintenance or repair. Because that's what I think is exactly the money, that's not the money that's eaten, that's the money that's tangible... And I say, the advantage is that in every village, every person will know how much money the government has helped a particular council, and they can check out the 500, 600, maybe a million crowns in a community that has a thousand inhabitants, they have used for the benefit of their citizens and which companies have received the small contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u26	Thank you. Mr Dominik Feri, Mrs Šafránková will prepare for a detailed debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u27	Thank you. I'm reporting for House Document 5129. This is an extension of the compensatory bonus to a company with three partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u28	Thank you. Mrs Lucie Šafránková, Mrs Kovářová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u29	Thank you. I would like to sign up for my two amendments. One is under House document 5132 and regulates the maximum number of members of eseróček from two to three, unless it is a family company. And the second amendment is under House document 5133, which proposes extending the definition of the form of one family for the purposes of this law and the scope of its members who are entitled to a compensatory bonus, by eseróček with more than two partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u30	Thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová, Mr Ferjenčík will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u31	I hereby subscribe to the amendment under House document 5170 concerning the extension of the definition of family. The second amendment that I am signing up for, and I submit it together with my colleague Ferjenčík and Mrs Krutáková, is House document 5140. This is the extension of the compensatory bonus subject, where the employment relationship is as the main activity and the CFI as a secondary activity. Then I subscribe to House document 5188, which is the resolution by which the Chamber of Deputies orders the Government of the Czech Republic to submit to the Chamber of Deputies by 20. 5. 2020 the draft law, which, as is temporarily the case for self-employed persons, will adjust the obligation to cover public health insurance premiums, pension insurance premiums, sickness insurance premiums and the contribution to the state employment policy for employees who are also subject to the compensatory bonus and so on. So House document 5188.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u32	Thank you. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík and then President Bartošek. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am applying to the amendment under number 5190. This is the compromise proposal for a compensatory bonus for part of the people working on a work agreement or a work agreement. Let me be more specific here. Unfortunately, the Minister often talks about the fact that it is for people who have income above CZK 10,000. But with the employment agreement, it's income above CZK 3,000. There's a lot of people helping out at restaurants. And the first thing that the pub guy did when the government closed the store was throw those people out on a job agreement, or he stopped giving them jobs, and then those people got no income from the deal. And we've done everything we can to make sense of it. That means there's a lower amount. That means there's 350 crowns a day compared to 500. There's only contractors who took out insurance. That means DPP over ten thousand, DPČ over three thousand. There is a condition that this agreement must continue to be valid. I understand it would weigh down a little bit for the employment authorities, if it were for the depositions. I'm a little sorry, but it was a compromise that we were willing to accept. That means the people the innkeeper called "I'm not gonna give you a job now, but when the crisis is over, you can get in," they'll get in. Others will have to apply for unemployment benefits. And above all, it's at the level of what they made in the first three months. I don't know where else to go with this compromise. And please just agree which Ministry will administer it. We think the Financial Administration can handle it, he's got people. That's just gonna be ten applications per worker if everyone asks, and I think it's gonna be one application per worker. And here I am actually appealing to common sense that this group, the first to be fired in the crisis, should at least receive some state support. And I won't be sticking around for the rest. I'll just mention the foster parents. Five-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one. The point is, we're not talking about someone getting a bonus for being a foster parent. We are talking about the fact that when someone is a foster father and takes about ten thousand crowns from the state and to do this they live as a self-employed person, which is perfectly normal and it happens. We're being approached by people who do exactly that. A foster kid isn't a job. This is state support for caring for a foreign child, but it is not a job in the vast majority of cases. Such a person, when he feeds as a self-employed person to feed his family properly, for being a foster parent, the state will punish him for not receiving any bonus at all. I mean, it's totally crazy for people who do some service for the state not to get any support from the state for punishment. So much for foster parents. Then we also put there the possibility of the co-operation of the agreements and the CFI. That's also a big group of people who have deals and business papers, and today they don't get anything just because they dared to work legally. And the last one is a wider proposal that allows you to compete with a minimum wage or a half-time job. Thank you for supporting these proposals. And the numbers - 5193 and 5196.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u34	Thank you. Chairman Jan Bartošek. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u35	Thank you for the floor. As I said in the general debate, I am signing up for the amendment, which is under number 5189. I will only repeat that we support these compensatory bonuses, but we do not want the budgets of municipalities and regions to be punished by this, because they would then have to reduce, for example, investment actions that local companies can support. Therefore, we propose that the compensation bonus be paid from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-004-373.u36	Thank you. Is anyone else reporting for a detailed debate, please? I am not reporting, I am ending the debate in detail. Interested in the final words? It has neither the rapporteur nor the Vice-President of the Government. So I'm going to finish second reading of this proposal, and we're going back to the third reading after we've dealt with the next points in the short-term negotiations. And before noon break, I'm going to open item 374. It's about
