ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-002-006.u1	6. The draft law amending Act No. 553/1991 Coll., on Municipal Police, as amended / House print 550/8/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House press 550/9. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in time for your mail. [[There's a lot of noise in the room!]] I welcome Senator Zdeněk Nytra among us and ask the House, first, for peace and, secondly, for Mr Zdeněk Ondráček to speak on behalf of the plaintiffs on the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled. Ambassador, I will give you my word as soon as the situation in the House calms down. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-002-006.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me come before you again for a group of petitioners and ask you to vote on the law returned, House Press 550, when colleagues and fellow Members of the Senate adopted several amendments that they are proposing to us and on which I would briefly comment and lightly justify the group of petitioners. I also admit from the very beginning, as in my previous speeches, that we worked very closely with the Ministry of the Interior on the proposal, so my possible statement is from the workshop of the Ministry of the Interior - the Department of Security Policy. Colleagues of the senators propose a total of eleven points that actually change. We can say, in short, that some are trouble-free and could, say, still agree with them - points 1 to 3, which are legislative technical adaptations. Points 5 to 7, that's the debriefing adjustment for the officers. Colleagues of the senators released a restrictive condition of 50 years of officer's age and would basically insist that the ratio have to be with one community. Here, let's say, let me say disagree, because our goal was for officers not to leave at a young age, because municipalities invest money in them for their training, training, and more and more. And if the officers were to leave us 50 years ago, that would be the problem that we are now dealing with at the Police of the Czech Republic, where dozens of police officers of working age are leaving, and we would like them to serve after 50 years of age. We would have a neutral view of points 8, 9, 10 or others. But the crucial points that are and for which I will ask you not to support the Senate proposal and remain on your original vote, where, at the time we voted on it, you voted in favour of 161 of the present, so that you would support us this time, and that is point 4 and point 11. To point 4. Fellow Senators want to release a request for an officer's education, which today is a graduation exam. Those of you who have been sitting here for a long time will remember, perhaps you have been involved in this as well, that in 2009 an amendment to the Municipal Police Act was approved, and you who have been sitting here for a long time have just made it a condition for a local police officer to have a senior education. At that time, 1 608 officers across the country did not meet this requirement of graduation. 1 608 officers didn't graduate in 2010. A carryover period was set for seven years and at the end of 2015, when I was already here and I was sitting on a subcommittee for the police, just as we now faced the number of officers who would have to terminate their employment in the village. That's when 203 officers had to stop because they were unable to complete their education at the age of seven. Of course, there was an exception for officers older than 45, and they didn't have to finish their graduation. To mitigate the demands for education now is a step backwards from our point of view, which will bring virtually nothing positive, and some kind of legal certainty and trust of people in the rule of law would also be violated. So that's our reservation. I could talk more about it. And then the second point that would, let's say, make us a little bit of a problem is point 11. You know, we've had a debate about him here, and that's our proposal that deals with the introduction of severance payments for the officers. Finally, we voted majority, as I mentioned, 141 for the 161 present, and we gave the severance pay. Senators and senators have come up with a new version now, and they'd like it to be unpaid. That means he'd be left with as much as six salaries as he's there. But here I have to say that we are trying to unite with our colleagues, let's say, the benefits for local and urban police officers with medical rescue services, where this benefit is already, and they are two components that work in our favor, together with police officers and firemen who have it severanceary, or in the form of pension, and are also regulated by Act No. 361/2003 Coll., on the Service of Security Corps Members. So, if we were to introduce non-taxing officers right now, I expect that soon there would also be a call from colleagues from the medical emergency services, or from state officials who are legally entitled to leave, but who also have a tax. So in short, the points. I presume that my fellow Senator will introduce them, too, and I will ask you to stick with the original proposal and again to support the parliamentary version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-002-006.u3	I thank Mr Ondráček for his opening words, and we will now continue with the speech by Senator Nytra, who will certainly justify the Senate's position. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-002-006.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Government, allow me, unlike my previous speaker, to try to persuade you to vote in favour of the Senate version. I'm just taking the liberty of fixing it. The total points are 13, but don't worry, 9 of these points are related to the current severance package. I have studied the debate very carefully in the Chamber of Deputies when you discussed this bill, and the debate was not one way. We can discuss here whether she has a stabilization status or a stabilization character. I'm sure it won't be in the first two years, but so be it. We decided to adjust the retirement fee in that style, that first, and that is the experience or reaction from the city police from the directors that I was talking to, the lifting of the decisive time, that means loading, may also have the effect that, for example, when someone has been served at one community for ten, twelve years, they will not take it as a city officer, because they would have to pay the severance fee for another community. So it is in the framework of the stabilization that we have suggested that the decisive period of 15 years should apply only to one community. [[12.00 hours]] I'm gonna mention it a couple of times today. Justice is not from this world, absolute justice. Of course, when someone moves from one end of the Republic to another and wants to continue working as a police officer, they lose the years they've worked. But I daresay these cases aren't gonna be enough. The second change in severance payments is precisely the 50-year condition, because it is in the interest of recruiting young people. And then I don't really understand it when basically both conditions apply simultaneously: 15 years of community police work and 50 years of age at the same time. And the third condition - taxation. Yes, Mr Ondráček mentioned that it would be unfair and different from the medical rescue service. On the other hand, it is the case with the security forces. When I found out what the average salary in Ostrava City Police is, it's about CZK 36,000 gross. So I think that since we're implementing something, we should implement it for the benefit of these people. And then, of course, it's possible there's going to be a change in the severance package for the medical rescue service. This also applies to the condition of 50 years. But that is not the subject of this bill. The second area that is, that's the graduation mentioned. Yes, I completely agree that compulsory graduation was first introduced, and now it should be cancelled. But the amendment wouldn't have been on the table if security forces hadn't gone the same way, the Police of the Czech Republic didn't go the same way, where - now don't take me at my word - if three or four years are true that police can take citizens into their ranks without graduation. And not just the police. At the prison service. There were a lot of people in the fire department who had to graduate, or they had to leave. It doesn't make any sense to me, and I don't want to say that the Police of the Czech Republic is higher than the municipal police, but even if we put an equal between them, it doesn't have the logic for one police to apply a strict condition of graduation, and it doesn't apply to the other. It must be admitted that we only talk about the second tariff class at the Police of the Czech Republic, which means the very lowest. But there's a possibility. So why not have it with the municipal police? It is, of course, to consider the management of the city, the management of individual municipal police, whether or not to use this option. They don't have to use it. They're going to decide to accept only senior citizens. That's their sacred right. But there are certainly small towns, small towns where municipal police work and lack people. In addition, municipal police generally meet with people from the municipal police to the Police of the Czech Republic. And that would make up for it a little bit. The third proposal concerns proving the identity of the citizen, because if he proves his identity to the municipal police, he must even - and under sanctions under this law - prove even other things that the constable of the municipal police can verify in the registers. So here, this change merely brings exactly exactly the same identification as the citizen has to prove his identity against a member of the Police of the Czech Republic. The fourth change is the imposition of fines for offences. There is only one thing we are releasing, and that is that a natural person commits an offence by deliberately exercising the authority and duties of an officer without being entitled to it under this law, because this requirement is already stated in the law number, and now I cannot find the law, but it is the law on the Code of Criminal Procedure, where the penalty is 20,000 for this offence, whereas here this law introduces a fine of CZK 3,000. [[Searching in his papers]] And the last amendment is an indirect amendment to the Municipalities Act, where the same provisions, which are essentially introduced into this Act, namely § 28b, are listed in the Municipalities Act. So, recap. There's a total of five changes. I'll start with the least serious ones. It's the indirect amendment to the municipalities. Nothing will change at all, because it is already stated in the municipal law. It is the imposition of fines for offenses, where in this case, for one and the same offence, two penalties would be possible, one under this law and the other under the law of offenses. The third is to prove the identity of a citizen who would have to show more data to a local police officer than to a member of the Police of the Czech Republic. Then, of course, the problematic graduation. And finally, an adjustment to the severance package. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the Senate version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-002-006.u5	Thank you, Senator Nytr. And before I open up the debate, I will ask the rapporteurs of the committees that have dealt with this in the Chamber of Deputies if they want to comment on the Senate's amendments. Mr Josef Bělica, rapporteur for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Jan Schiller, was rapporteur for the Committee on Guarantee Committee, the Committee on Security. Anyone interested in expressing themselves? He doesn't. So I'm opening up a debate. I have no application for the debate. Is any of the Members of Parliament reporting from place to place of debate, please? He's not reporting. I'm done with the conversation. There's no interest in final words. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. An absolute majority of Members present are needed to adopt the following resolution. Before everyone comes from the lobby, I will make a motion for a resolution. It reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 553/1991 Coll., on Municipal Police, as amended, pursuant to the House press 550/8, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 550/9.' I think we're ready for the vote. [[Noise in the hall.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 50, 186 Members signed in, for 6, against 82. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We shall now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. An absolute majority of all Members are needed to adopt this resolution, the agreement of 101 Members. We have the necessary number of votes set. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 553/1991 Coll., on Municipal Police, as amended, as amended, in which he was referred to the Senate, according to the House's Press 550/8." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 51, 186 Members signed in for 154, versus 2. I state that we have adopted the bill. I thank the Senator, thank the draftsman's representative, and I conclude on this point. [[12.10 hours]] We will now proceed to discuss the item number
