ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-002-219.u1	219. Financial Stability Report 2018/2019 /German Press 510/ This report was submitted by the Czech National Bank in accordance with Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended. The report was discussed by the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution was delivered to you as House Press 510/1. I will ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Karel Rais, inform us of the committee's deliberations and present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-002-219.u2	Have a good day. Basically, this is a report describing the situation in which the Czech Republic has been undergoing a highly favourable development since spring 2018, so the report also corresponds to that. The Czech National Bank and essentially the financial sector have maintained high resistance to possible adverse shocks. As regards potential sources of risk, these are risks associated with the development of the financial and economic cycle and the unchanged level of risk is structural. On 23 May 2019, the countercyclical buffer rate increased to 2.0, reflecting an increase in the risks associated with economic movements at an increasing stage of the financial cycle and partial strengthening of signals of vulnerability of the domestic banking sector. We have discussed this report in detail on the Committee on Budgets and I have here the resolution of the Budget Committee of 4 September 2019 on the Financial Stability Report, House Press 510: After the opening words of the Governor of the Czech National Bank, Mr Rusnok, the report of Mr Rais, and after the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, firstly, takes note of the Czech National Bank's report on financial stability for 2018/2019 and recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies takes note of the report on financial stability, as exactly the title of this report has been quoted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-002-219.u3	Thank you. I will start a general debate and wait for a while, because none of the members of the government are present. The secretary of finance is, I assume, at the door. [[A moment of waiting.]] So far, none of the members have been able to reach... Here comes the Secretary of Finance! We're all happy to see her. I am initiating a general debate. I'm asking who's interested in performing on this point. Governor of the Czech National Bank. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-002-219.u4	Mr President, Madam Secretary, honourable House, of course, time is running out and the reports are getting a little out of date. At a time when everything changes from hour to hour, they become obsolete even faster, but I can only confirm what the rapporteur has already said. In that period that report evaluates, we have actually recorded a very solid and stable situation in our financial sector, especially in the banking sector. The report focused mainly on the risks that arose during the expansionary phase of the financial cycle that we were experiencing at the time. It also focused on the use of mortgage lending regulation tools, which were extended with effect from October 2018. Of course, he also dealt with the overall state of the banking sector, which is tested by the stress tests. It has already been discussed here about the countercyclical capital reserve set by the central bank as macroprudential authority in advance. I think these are things that are generally known and are traceable easily in the report. Basically, the report states that even in 2018, respectively. Then, in 2019, we saw a certain decline in the mortgage market, which was fully foreseen and essentially compensated for the significant growth before the introduction of the regulatory measures. The authorities of the Czech Republic responded to the warning of the European Systemic Risk Board, which is a European institution for macro-prudential policy. We were given so-called from this institution. a warning. Warning is a weaker level than recommendation. The warning was also issued for Germany, France, Iceland and Norway. Recommendations for Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Sweden. In our case, the board essentially criticises the non-bindingity of regulatory indicators used by the Czech National Bank from the point of view of legislation. Otherwise, there is a very positive development in the report in general, but I think that now that perhaps - hopefully not fundamentally - the end of good times is coming, it will prove that our prudential policy has been very appropriate and will be one of the factors that will enable us to cope with the relatively difficult situation that may be going on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-002-219.u5	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate on this point. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the general debate. Interest in the final words, Mr rapporteur? [[No.]] Apparently, neither is the governor. [[No.]] I am opening a detailed debate. I ask who is interested in speaking in a detailed debate on this point. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. Is there interest in final words? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the motion for a resolution, as Mr Rais said. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I repeat once again what we are going to vote on. We will vote on the motion for a resolution tabled, as was said in the debate by the rapporteur. We will wait a little longer, because there are still other Members coming into the hall. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of the motion for a resolution. Who's against it? There's a 158 in vote 67, for 114, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. Thank you all, and I'm done with this point. Opening point number
