ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u1	454. Proposal for the presence of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations in 2021 and 2022 with a view to the year 2023 /house print 876/ We have interrupted this point during the speech by the Committee rapporteur, Mrs Jana Černochová, who I again give my floor in order to complete her report. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Meanwhile, Minister of Foreign Affairs Petříček arrived, so I will finish reading the letter he submitted to us in the defence committee, which was just about to ask what the future of the representative office in Kabul is. I finished the last paragraph: The Czech Republic remains interested in being part of international efforts for security, political and moral support for Afghanistan. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is fully aware of the material and human efforts that the Czech Republic has put into stabilizing Afghanistan, including the lives of nine Czech soldiers. I assure you, Madam President, we do not want to leave the work being done. In addition to what is in the resolution, the Defence Committee agreed that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Petříček, after the meeting with Mr President today, will repeat whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is planning to cancel, reduce the numbers, or preserve it if it is safe for our soldiers. So, as I was saying here before the recess, we communicated with the Secretary of Defense, Metnar, some sort of supplementary resolution that would just concern the representative office and the support to keep this representative office in Kabul. I would then like to read this resolution, Mr Vice-President, as part of my second speech, when I will therefore speak as a Member and at the same time introduce you to the opinion of the Civic Democratic Party Club. That's how many news reports he's got. As I said, I have read the resolution to you in the general debate, so I will not repeat it in the detailed debate, I will just refer it to it, and in the detailed debate I will read the resolution on which we are in agreement with the Minister of Defence. And that will be a supplementary resolution, so that we do not break the rule that I also mentioned in my speech that, in fact, the resolution of the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies must be identical.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u3	Thank you and I ask now that Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček speak and also present this material. Please take your word for it, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by expressing my appreciation for the approach of colleagues from the Ministry of Defence who have worked very closely and constructively with my department to prepare the proposal. I would like to start by saying that the security of the Czech Republic cannot be separated from the international environment. Defence and protection of our inhabitants does not end at the borders of the Czech Republic. Participation in international security and stability is a strategic security concern for our country. As far as the proposal is concerned, the figures proposed for 2021 and 2022 are realistic and adequately reflect our options, commitments, interests and international security situation. This mandate is primarily aimed at strengthening collective defence. This is a participation in NATO's emergency forces and enables the mission of crisis management outside the Alliance to strengthen cooperative security through training missions, whether it concerns the Resolute Support Mission, KFOR in Kosovo and elsewhere. It also builds on our previous engagement in selected regions, whether it concerns Afghanistan, the Middle and Middle East, the Sahel, the Baltics or the Western Balkans. In accordance with the Government's programme statement, it also reflects the commitment of the Czech Republic to actively contribute to the foreign operations of NATO, the EU and the UN. Material from our point of view basically covers our needs. However, it cannot be excluded, of course, that unexpected crises will occur in the next two years, especially in our southern neighbourhood, and in view of the possible security implications of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, which will require the deployment of the international community, and the Czech Republic will have to be able to respond quickly to any other demands. Finally, I would have responded briefly to the rapporteur's question. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not want to leave Kabul, but I am also very clear that it is necessary to meet specific conditions in order to ensure the functioning of our diplomatic mission, our representative office, whether in the area of security or also basic operation. And I want to make sure that we are very intensive in this with the Department of Defense, if our options remain in Kabul. And I agree, we don't want to leave the job. And even after there is a reduction in international presence in Afghanistan, there are a number of topics and issues that we would like to address with this country in the future. So if the conditions are met, our representative office in Kabul will continue to function after the middle of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u5	Thank you, Minister. Before I open the debate, one apology. Mrs Hyťhová Hyťhová apologizes for today's meeting all day for health reasons. I am now opening the debate. Mrs Jana Černochová is the first to sign up. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have announced, I would now like to introduce you to the position of the Civil Democratic Party and to the motion for an accompanying resolution, which I will recall again in a detailed debate. The Minister for Defence and I, as rapporteur, spoke about the specific content of the approved mandate, so allow me to make a few comments. Both have a common denominator and thus the approval authority attached to the transfer of forces to foreign operations pursuant to Article 43 of the Constitution. This power is given to Parliament and, of course, it is also associated with co-responsibility for deciding where our forces operate. So I am very glad that this is actually happening in the presence of both ministers who are actually involved in sending soldiers. I want to stress that this is the political responsibility that we all bear in the interests of foreign policy in the Czech Republic. Now, then, the two comments, which will relate in particular to the mission in Afghanistan and the mission in the Sahel. Next year it will be 20 years when the allies entered Afghanistan. The reason for this was the intervention of those behind the abominable attacks on New York and Washington on September 11, 2001. It is necessary, colleagues and colleagues, to remember that. It was clear that stabilizing Afghanistan did not have a military solution, but only a political solution. However, there will never be a political solution without military support. [[18.10 hours]] In recent years, the angry parties have sat down at the negotiating table, and then it was decided to withdraw the allied troops. I don't want to speculate about the future of the process in the country or about the correctness of the accelerated download, I just take it as a fact. As I have also mentioned here as rapporteur, according to some information, the Pentagon is planning a complete withdrawal of troops on 31 May 2021. We have a mandate ahead of us, which, however, envisages deployment in Afghanistan over the next two years. That is why I am glad that both ministers here have said that even after the meeting with Mr. President, nothing changes about this situation. Our work in the Sahel area is also part of the approved mandate, namely in Mali, where, as you know, even Czech soldiers have been in charge of this contingent since 1 July. However, shortly we will decide to extend operations to other countries in the field of operation called Takuba, which we should probably approve on the Defence Committee next time. 10. It is probably no secret, and we can all agree that West Africa is very problematic. For example, I will recall the recent military coup in Mali, countries in the region are now waiting for several elections, and violence and dissatisfaction with politics are escalating in some areas. In Mali, for example, moderate Imam Mahmúd Dicko has relatively high support. I believe that, in this situation, as fellow Members, we must ask for information more often than every two years. We are co-responsible for developments in the area and for the fulfilment of our foreign policy interests in Mali and its surroundings. I therefore call on the accompanying resolution, which will have two parts. One will concern the representative office in Kabul and the other will concern more frequent information to the Defence Committee on these missions. The second point concerns our further action in Afghanistan. I am convinced, and I have had the opportunity to see it several times, so to speak, with my own eyes, that our soldiers and civilians have actually done and are doing a great job for which I would like to thank them. During the period when the Czech provincial reconstruction team worked in Logar, we were one of the biggest contributors to the operation and really helped the Afghánec build their better future. That is why I was concerned about the intention to disturb our embassies there, and I am very glad that the Minister of Foreign Affairs promised at a public meeting that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not plan such a thing. I am convinced that we are not to leave Afghanistan diplomatically, I mean 'diplomatally' from the point of view of the representative office. We invested too much resources, energy there, but more importantly, unfortunately, human lives, so that we could just, after 20 years, say that maybe it was all unnecessary. I absolutely refuse to do that. We have debated many times about the end state, the objective of our work in Afghanistan. The stability of political and economic, the involvement of our companies etc. was mentioned. There was never talk of downloading everything, including the embassy. We are a medium-sized country with limited resources. Therefore, our foreign policy must be very effective, thought-out, consistent and to some extent pragmatic. The lifting of the embassy in Afghanistan would be a mistake and a bad signal for our operations in the Sahel. Ladies and gentlemen, let me now introduce you to the resolution that I will read in a detailed debate and which we participated in with the Defence Minister's team: Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. supports the continuation of the representative office of the Czech Republic in Kabul and calls on the Government to continue to maintain it if the security conditions allow. II. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence to inform every three months the Defence Committee of the Chamber of Deputies on the development of the situation in Afghanistan and sub-Saharan Africa in connection with the participation of the Czech Republic in the military operations of NATO, the European Union, the UN and ad hoc coalitions in these areas, the current developments in these operations and the development of the number of Czech soldiers deployed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Civil Democratic Party will support both the motion for a resolution that I read to you in the first part and which has been passed by the Defence Committee, so we will support this supplementary resolution, because we believe that this Chamber of Deputies as a souvenir should give a clear opinion on how the diplomatic and economic policy of Afghanistan should continue to work, as well as that we certainly do not want to be Members - and each club has its representation in the Defence Committee, the Mayors will be communicating with me - so we want to have information about what is currently happening in these countries, so that we are not surprised when an article comes out somewhere, and, in fact, at that time, we may be freshly following the approval of the mandate of the Defence Committee. Thank you for your attention. I would ask you to support these resolutions, both the Defence Committee and the Additional resolution, because I think that this is the way in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u7	Thank you. Mr Radovan Vích will now speak in the debate, Mr Černý will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good evening, esteemed colleagues and esteemed colleagues, esteemed members of the government. I would like to express the opinion of the Freedom and Direct Democracy Group on this government proposal. The Government has asked the Chamber of Deputies to approve the proposal on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations in 2021-2020 with a view to 2023. This proposal has already been approved by the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Given the dynamics of safety changes in recent years, this is, in my opinion, a view of too long a time during which much can change. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Petříček also spoke of this. There might just be a crisis. It is a government proposal, I am convinced that we could discuss this every year with a view of the following year, with the understanding, on the other hand, of the Ministry of Defence's ministry, which wants to be clear in medium-term planning, essentially when and where it has to send troops. However, it turns out that it is necessary to have sufficient members of the army of the Czech Republic in the Czech Republic, whether for the purposes of defending the territory and its citizens, so for other tasks, see important assistance to the Czech Army during the time of the Coronavirus crisis or currently assistance in organizing and securing elections. I would like to emphasise another thing here, and that is that if the government decides to declare an emergency, members of the Army of the Czech Republic can also be assigned to strengthen tasks within the Police of the Czech Republic. [[18.20 hours]] However, the government does not, in my view, take into account the change in the security situation in this proposal and again submit a proposal for military foreign operations, as if nothing substantial has changed in the world. The differences compared to the previous mandate for foreign operations are basically cosmetic. On the contrary, I do not see any major withdrawal of troops from operations that have lost their strategic importance. I am thinking, in particular, of Afghanistan, because I am convinced that the strategy in Afghanistan is bad for the long term. This is, for example, as I said before, Operation Resolute Support in Afghanistan and, of course, operations in Iraq. Moreover, these two operations do not have the mandate of the Security Council Resolution. The aim should be to send our troops abroad so that it is under this mandate, otherwise the army may be involved in the international military adventures of other states, and that is certainly not in the interests of the Czech Republic. The world around us is changing very quickly, from a military point of view to worse. It is not possible for the security foreign policy of the Czech Republic to remain unchanged and not respond to this situation. This can potentially put us in serious trouble and cannot be credible and endlessly argued by our allied commitments. After all, our military ally in NATO is Turkey, which has been at the edge of an open military conflict with another NATO member for some time, and this is Greece. And we're supposed to continue to see that without the real protection of our territory? I don't think so. It is not sustainable for most of the deployed members of the Army of the Czech Republic to be in foreign operations or to be preparing for such operations and for such activities abroad to be adapted to the military technology that we have or are re-buying. We need the means and capabilities to defend the Czech Republic by the Army of the Czech Republic. We also have reservations about our soldiers' involvement in Mali. I'm asking myself what this will bring. In Mali, the situation is essentially dominated by tribal leaders, and I have such a strong impression that it will be French Afghanistan in an endless form with an endless end. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] To sum up all of this together, I would like to say that the operations are too many from our point of view, there has been no evaluation of the objectives and prospects and on the basis of this optimization of the number of these foreign operations. Some of them are not or do not have the mandate of the Security Council. I am thinking, in particular, of Afghanistan. Canada left here, France and other states left. These operations are not in the long-term interest of the Czech Republic. We have 42 percent of the soldiers deployed from the total number of deployables. Normally NATO states have about 25 percent, and Poland has even 5 percent. That's also evidence of something. Therefore, the SPD MEP cannot support this proposal for action, as it is presented. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u9	Thank you. Apologies - President Marian Jurečka apologises from 18:00 to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová also apologizes from 18:00 to the end of the day for family reasons. In the general debate, Mr Alexander Černý will now speak, and Mr Foldyna will be prepared. Mr Černý is not present, so it is Mr Jaroslav Foldyna's turn. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. When I read here and listen to things about missions, I ask a lot of questions. I wonder what kind of mission we are doing, what sense the Czech taxpayer has of the mission in Mali. What good is it for the Czech taxpayer who pays for all this? I suspect it's CZK 600 million in Mali. We trained soldiers there, I hear. Now I don't know if we trained the soldiers who were doing the coup and won or the soldiers who lost in the coup. Now I don't know who we trained there, which unit, and most importantly I don't know what the 600 million brought to the Czech taxpayer. Was it part of the training? So is Mali our training polygon? Because the $600 million is a lot of money, and God forbid our guys, sons of many mothers, are gonna get hurt. So I don't see the point of our acting in Mali. It doesn't mean anything to me either, but it doesn't mean anything to me politically. I said, what are we doing in Afghanistan? Seventeen years there is an operation going on, a number of our soldiers died there, and in the second row it cost millions of crowns of the Czech taxpayer. What did this bring to the Czech taxpayer? What threatens someone in Afghanistan, whether his name is Taliban or not, with what threatens a Taliban several hundred or a thousand kilometers away from a Czech taxpayer? How's he gonna get in here? What kind of military technology would this Taliban come to our country? Maybe some dangerous person gets here, but only with a visa, or without a visa, to some of those detention camps, so that's different. So I also don't know what we're doing for security policy at the moment in the hundreds of millions of crowns of the Czech taxpayer, what we're doing in Afghanistan and how this Afghanistan is putting us at risk. The same question I can ask myself is what's going on in Iraq. Who are we fighting, or what are we doing there? How are we threatened by an Iráčan? If the Brussels Commission's resolution doesn't let him in, which says we have to bring everyone here, and then the ministers here are going to tell us that we have to bring someone here, and then we're going to make a law that if we think about it, I'm going to charge you with some crime, because we all actually have to agree, I've also experienced that limited sovereignty, so I'm still hoping that it's just my fiction. But I ask - why are we spending money on the Czech taxpayer for missions in Iraq? What's the threat to Iraq or the Iráčan? And when will it finally end, so that the billions that go this way end up where they're supposed to end up? This means in retirement homes, for example in a hospital in Rumburk, where there is not sufficient health care, or in a Czech pensioner, or in Czech disabled children, for which money is collected to provide them with treatment. That was my consideration, and I came to the conclusion that I would not vote in favour of this item of the House of Deputies because I could not answer it to those of my constituents who sent me here to this Chamber of Deputies. So that's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u11	Thank you. It is Mr Černý again who is not present, so Mr Leo Luzar, who has in the meantime signed up, will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to apologize to Saša Černý, who belongs to the half that is excused under the half regime of today's House, and therefore is not present for his intervention. But I will try to replace it with an opinion that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia has on this material. You may expect me to talk flamingly about how we do not like NATO and how we perceive the position of the Czech Republic in this pact, but I will rather focus on the area of foreign policy, which is an integral part of this material here. I will not speak to the Minister of Defence because he represents soldiers and soldiers follow orders. They follow orders from this House as well, and they try their best to carry out these orders, although they are often in danger of life, even though they can often doubt why they are doing so. An order is an order, and there's no point in discussing it. But my questions will point to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, an area that may be sensitive today. [[18.30 hours]] I'm asking about the situation in Mali, Minister of Foreign Affairs. I'm sure we know there's been a coup. We certainly know that we are currently in the territory where quite serious internal political struggles are taking place between the factions. And what's our position? What is our mandate to continue in a country that is torn down by internal political contradictions that have grown into armed conflict, when the military decided to speak out against its president? We don't have the information. There was only a small note in the press about the coup that the soldiers captured the president, held him at the base, and that in fact these struggles do not affect our soldiers in this area. But we are in the military command of this area, unless something has changed. And there's no new information. We don't have them. So what I'm asking is: What is the position of the Czech Republic as commander of this operation in Mali against the armed forces? Those fights are taking place there in the context of this conflict. Has the mandate changed? Who confirmed the mandate for Mali? Those who have been, as they say, interned? Did somebody take power? What is the UN's view of this in the context of the Mali situation? Will you try to give me an answer to that question, Minister? Why doesn't the House have that information? I've heard from the committee chair here that she'd like to receive this information. So far, I have been convinced that he receives this information regularly and that there is a regular evaluation of the situation where our soldiers are and that they have that information, because I assume that they are private, because these are often classified matters concerning the safety of our soldiers. But if she doesn't have them and prepares an accompanying resolution that, at least every two years, we could have the information, if I understood correctly, she would want them more often, so I would like to hear here on this microphone how Czech foreign policy deals with the situation in Mali and the situation of our soldiers who are currently there, and how our command of this operation will continue to proceed. Do we have homework? Do we know how Czech soldiers will be perceived in this warfield when they command this operation? Is it even worth being there when the internal political situation has grown into an armed conflict and we no longer act as a peace force to prevent the penetration of Islamists and other groups, but we are actually at the centre of the civil war that is taking place there, or military coup, how can we say that the Mali army has opposed the leadership appointed by the President? These are all questions that we should be dealing with here, or at least the Committee on Defence, or the Foreign Committee, should be dealt with regularly. Instead, we're dealing with other very important things, and I'm not here to help myself with these examples. But this is really about the lives of our soldiers, and we should have that information before this Parliament adopts this resolution, which will move our soldiers into these war conflicts for years to come. Afghanistan has already been mentioned here. The second painful point of foreign policy of the Czech Republic against the partnership that we have concluded within NATO. There's talk of an embassy. I think that the embassy is a purely classic diplomatic expression of some will of the state to operate in a second state and should not serve to be some kind of military foreplay. Therefore, I think that there should not be a resolution presented within the Defence Committee, but rather a foreign committee that should evaluate the situation in Afghanistan, whether to continue to hold the embassy there, or what level the representative corps at all have in this country. Another question that arises is whether we have performed our tasks and will carry out the tasks we have in Afghanistan in the foreseeable future. At the beginning of this point, it was said that we had ideas about strengthening democracy, strengthening peace, strengthening trade ties, strengthening what we would like Afghanistan to experience after the war on terrorism declared by the United States of America to be able to breathe and develop again. Have we accomplished these tasks? Has anyone evaluated our long-term mission in Afghanistan whether we have fulfilled the tasks assigned to us as representatives of the army that operates there? Do we have any evaluation of this activity in the context of a foreign policy situation, Minister of Foreign Affairs? As I read the materials that come and come from free sources, when America, which is the leader of this armed conflict in Afghanistan, seeks ways to settle the conflict within the framework of an agreement with terrorists, as part of an effort to sit behind one table with the Taliban terrorists. But we have them as terrorists all the time. We're fighting them. Our soldiers there are dying in battle with these people. And we with them, in addition to the command that is in Afghanistan, want to sit with them for one negotiating table and negotiate. I'm gonna forget that terrorists aren't being dealt with. Terrorists are being fought. What's our position? It was not so long ago that the Minister of Culture on this microphone expressed the view that politicians should resolve the military situation and the stay of our soldiers in Afghanistan. I stepped out to support him because there was a crazy debate here, a media debate on the mainstream, how we even took the liberty of questioning that the soldiers were in Afghanistan. And it's quiet today. Today, I don't hear the mainstream yelling and defending the soldiers from having to be there. No. One day, the United States of America said it had to be solved in this way, so suddenly it's quiet. Isn't that a mistake? Isn't it a mistake that we legislators of the Czech legislature don't have the information and we don't talk about what the tasks of our soldiers abroad are? They do not only represent themselves there, the Army of the Czech Republic. They represent the whole Czech Republic there and, of course, they will then establish other relationships that we would like to have with these countries. Or have we already written them off? Or do we act like an expeditionary corps trying to get something out there, and he hasn't been able to do that for 12 years? But that's a question not for the Secretary of Defense who sits here behind the intelligence desk. Of course he's responsible for the army. But it's a question for our foreign policy. It is intended to determine the direction and functioning of military operations, since we are already involved in them. And from that title, I ask what is the position of the Czech Republic towards the efforts of the United States of America to negotiate with the Taliban, perhaps to sacrifice our fallen in Afghanistan for the good of some agreement. Will we continue to prosecute and prosecute those who shoot and fight against us there? Or are we gonna fall around each other's necks, and what are we, we're gonna get, we're gonna sit behind the same desk now? What is the position of Czech foreign policy towards these situations that are currently there? Will we apply any legal sanctions in the framework of a future settlement? Will we want to deal with these situations before international legal tribunals? America can laugh. They do not respect any international efforts of the community to prosecute war crimes or military crimes on foreign territory. They can laugh about it. But what position are we as the Czech Republic within NATO in these war conflicts? Do our soldiers have the same protection and work in the same mode as the Americans? Will we issue them, for example, when there is a situation and we are being prosecuted before the International Criminal Tribunal that we have done something wrong? What is the position of the Czech Republic in these conflicts from this legal point of view? [[18.40 hours]] I would welcome the debate on these issues, and not only on a regular report, we'll send 200, 300, 150 soldiers, we'll have four officers there, or we'll even be in charge of this unit here. Those are the things that are missing here under the impression that we're vassals. The vassals of some military pact that we have entered without a referendum without the citizens expressing themselves whether they want to be in this military pact. Without saying yes, we take on all the risks arising from this, and we want to be in this military pact with these risks. No, we didn't ask them, the politicians decided. Therefore, we as citizens' representatives should hear and know the answers to these questions in the context of the Czech foreign policy. Is the fight against terrorism, so much declared, for which our President, too, so often, is still valid? Are we fighting terrorism, Mr. Foreign Minister? Or are we about to let the terrorists rule in Afghanistan and look for a moderate position to leave here, just like the Američan do? Or are we gonna be there like those last stakes in the fence, and we're gonna keep fighting lost wars? That's the question that lies before us. And there's one other thing that we leave behind under the impression of coronavirus, and that's the re-built Armenian-Azerbaijan conflict about the Upper Karabach. Yes, you say, the war's been going on for a long time, nothing's really happening. There have always been some conflicts, and these two parties have always tried to provoke some clashes between them and seek the truth between them, and who has just provoked this particular little conflict is probably very difficult, I admit - Mr. Foreign Affairs Minister. But we're in a different situation today. We are in a situation where the NATO state openly joined the conflict. We are in a situation where Turkey, with its armed forces, has entered this conflict on the part of Azerbaijan. When their air force attacks Armenian positions, when their air force officially with the high marks of Turkey, but with the matriculation of NATO, because they are a member of the NATO military pact, it has joined the war. Has the NATO command of which we are members when we have our mission there agreed to this procedure? Has our Ministry of Foreign Affairs ever expressed any reaction to Turkey's progress in this conflict? Or will we be bound by Article 5 and go help Turkey when Turkey is attacked by Armenia in retaliation? How will Czech foreign policy proceed in the area of this hot conflict, which remains behind, let's say, the current situation in the Czech Republic? And yet it is a conflict where one of NATO states, our partners, is directly involved. How do we proceed? These are the questions I ask the members of the Foreign Committee, I ask the members of the Defence Committee, I ask the members of other members who should have this information. And I'm learning here at the beginning that they just don't have that information themselves. And that we, as the House, must prepare an accompanying resolution, when we are actually asking for this information. Isn't that a shame? We send out soldiers, they're in charge, and we leave them there unanswered. What is the goal of the Czech Republic for which it sends them? And it doesn't matter how much money it costs. It doesn't matter if there are material goods, but there are lives at stake. We send them not to defend peace and guard the areas. We're sending them to war. We're sending them where the shots are fired. And we should know these questions in advance and know them so that we can learn a little bit about them. That's just three things I wanted to mention about this proposal we have today. And those answers, Minister, I'd like to hear from you. I'll repeat. I would like to know the position of the Czech Republic towards Mali and the situation that is there, and how we are able, since we are already leading the mission, how we are able to deal with it and whether we are in conflict with the Czech Republic's foreign policy process. Or are we counting on it to work something out and that something's gonna happen and hopefully it's gonna be okay? The second question is: will we enter a game in Afghanistan under the leadership of the United States of America and negotiate with terrorists in the fight against terrorism? And the third question is: how will our Ministry of Foreign Affairs stand up to the issue of the current war conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan and Turkey's involvement in this conflict? And Turkey, as we all know, is a member of NATO and we are bound by some obligations arising from contractual relations within this organisation. If I don't get answers to these questions, and I don't know, maybe you'll find the courage to talk about how it's really there, I'll be glad. But I do not yet have these answers in this proposal, and I fear that this proposal does not, from this point of view, correspond with the Czech foreign policy which we declare publicly. And as colleagues here point to time, I do not want to delay and I do not want to put this material aside, but I want to know the answers to these questions and I think that most citizens of the Czech Republic would also like to know them, so that they know how the Chamber of Deputies controls the government. And not only does the government carry out the coronavirus fight, but also how it performs the tasks of foreign policy and how it ensures that we operate in the foreign policy and our soldiers operating abroad as citizens of the Czech Republic wish. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u13	I also thank you and the factual point, Mr Kobza. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. I would like to follow up on the speakers, and I would also like to ask the Minister a few questions. The mission has been in Afghanistan for 19 years. I would very much like to know what makes the Minister think that the 20th year is going to change something when 19 years haven't done any good. I mean, it was because every year the UN publishes a report on narcotics. Afghanistan has its own brochure, and we know that raw opium production has increased more than seven times since the beginning of the war with the Taliban. So we can say that this is one of the results. The second result of this mission is that the Taliban gradually dominated nearly four fifths of Afghanistan's territory and it does not seem that advancing military intervention by coalition forces could somehow reverse this development. So I'm really wondering why we're there. Because if it hasn't done anything for 19 years, then why should anything change the next year? As for the action in Mali, of course, it is all the more interesting that we are no longer just an expeditionary corps of the American army, but also a French army. Apparently, the Francouz don't want to put on the foreign legion anymore, so they found out they're gonna put us on because we still have to borrow on the deficit budget for all these adventures. It is a number of reasons for which I cannot support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u15	Thank you, too. A point of fact, Mr Grospič.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u16	I didn't want to respond to that anymore, because I think there were a lot of things that were said here. I would like to draw attention to one thing. Afghanistan is an extremely, extremely difficult area. Perhaps for several millennia in the once empire of Alexandr the veliký and then the Mede Empire experienced a moment of peace, but it is certainly a society composed of very proud tribes that, for example, were able to massacre the British army in 1842, where only one of 51,000 soldiers remained alive. The absurdity of what American soldiers are doing there now and after the failed invasion, when the dead count for 220 grand, should lead us to seek what has been said here by my previous speaker, Mrs Černochová, for diplomatic relations, for keeping the embassy, but not for our military or police engagement. [[18.50 hours]] As far as Mali is concerned, the situation is a little more complicated because there is also the UN mandate. However, it turns out that the former colonial powers are very fond of solving their military problems and their influence through third countries. So making the commander, the commander in chief, from the Czech Republic, who has nothing to do with this country, and actually leading it to account for the development of a situation that is in the stalemate, when the president is shut down, is ruled by a junta that is not recognized, and, moreover, the country is shaken by the shocks of Islamists, it is very trivial. However, I do not think that the Czech Republic should resign from the fight against terrorism, but it should also not support various expeditionary semi-colonial corps. And that is one of the reasons why I will not vote for this proposal either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u17	Your time. Thank you. President Bartošek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On behalf of the KDU-ČSL Club, I note that we will support this point and we also see this vote as a manifestation not only of the mandate but also of the political will, a clear declaration of which world we belong. We believe that our position is within the European Union and also an alliance within NATO. For this reason, as one of the alliance members, we have our commitments for shared defence. For this reason, it is also important that we fulfill our obligations. Just for the record, as questions have been asked here, what good is it that they are broadcasting and that we have foreign missions, so in addition, it is a mitigation of instability in the regions in question. It is one of the instruments against terrorism and, at the same time, against migration, illegal migration. It is the involvement of the Army of the Czech Republic in the real operational environment and it is also a contribution of the Czech Republic to international security. I am glad that the Czech Republic is fulfilling its obligations. Anyway, what I perceive is that, to some extent, the numbers of soldiers on our missions are reducing, in the context of what the Minister of Finance says, that the Czech Republic's military costs will not be met as it has committed itself, I see as one of the things that could harm the reputation of the Czech Republic because we have always been one of the states that we have fulfilled in terms of the number of soldiers in missions. And that was our contribution, even though we were unable to give 2 percent of GDP in defense, as we made a commitment. And here I want to ask how, Minister, you will draw up the next year's budget, how you plan to comply with alliance commitments and whether we will really be able to defend within the Alliance how the Czech Government behaves in defence and alliance commitments. I have some things I'd like to ask you. One of them is that in the mission, we approve the top ceilings. Of course, this is the right step because the situation in individual countries is variable and we have to respond to it, but in individual missions we are far from achieving the numbers that we should have there. This means whether there is a plan and, if necessary, an increase in our numbers within missions. At the same time, I agree with what my colleague Černochová said about Afghanistan, which means keeping the embassy, yes, on the other hand, whether negotiations take place within the Alliance with the US, when, after signing the agreement with the Taliban, it was said that, in the event of a deterioration of the situation, we were able to strengthen the number of contingents, and that is, it is not a tax, but whether the Czech Republic is prepared within the Alliance and the Alliance as such to work in an operational manner, that if they do not comply with the agreement under this agreement, then we will respond flexibly. The next thing I care about is the question of the Baltics. We've always kept about one company there, and it's not filled at the moment, so I want to ask you about the Baltics whether we're planning to increase the number of soldiers. Because I am convinced that within the Baltics it is one of the things that is absolutely crucial and when we should really keep those numbers, because there is one thing that is one of the things that works very well in terms of deterrent. Then I would like to ask you how - and this has been mentioned repeatedly - the Czech Republic will act in Mali after the end of this mission, and how it will translate into a possible number of soldiers in Mali. Whether the number of Czech soldiers will be modified there after the end of our command, or we will only end up with the command, and as far as the number is concerned, we will remain there. And one last thing. The materials state that within individual, say, operational spaces outside the Czech Republic, CASA aircraft are being deployed. And there I want to ask whether it's a plan that's already agreed and agreed on, or whether it's some kind of defense department reasoning. Because I think involving the Casa planes is the right thing to do, I support it, let those planes fly, but I'm just interested in the state of readiness for this consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u19	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate on this point. I look around, I don't see anyone. I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. Mr. Secretary? As a plaintiff, then as a rapporteur. But you made a deal, lady first. I'm the last person to stop you. For the information of others, this is a point where we do not discuss either the law or the international treaty, and there is the will of all Members' clubs to complete this point. We can act theoretically until 9:00 p.m. at the end of the meeting day. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to respond to some of my colleagues' speeches after the general debate as rapporteur. Firstly, on Mr Vích's speech, I would like to say that it is with a mandate. Resolute Support was launched on 1 January 2015 as a follow-up mission after the completion of ISAF operations. And the RSM is a NATO mission, and the leading countries are Germany, Italy, Turkey and the US. The mission was approved by the Foreign Alliance Ministers in June 2014 and the relevant agreement was signed between NATO and Afghanistan in September on the status of forces, the so-called SOFA, and the UN Security Council expressed its support for the mission by Resolution 2189 in December 2014. So it's not true that Afghanistan is without a mandate. First of all. Secondly, I would like to respond to Mr Foldyna, who has become a member of the SPD today, before that he has been a member of the ČSSD for many years, and I assume that the entry into the SPD has remained in his memory for some of the important moments that accompanied our entry into the North Atlantic Alliance, such as the fact that the year 1999 is the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Miloš Zeman - whom I firmly believe Mr Foldyna respects - the Czech Republic enters NATO and the protocol between foreign ministers in Washington is signed by another member of the ČSSD, Minister of Foreign Affairs Kavan. So, through the President, Mr.Foldyna, I think that your statement that actually Czech soldiers should sit on their asses at home, maybe you should have told your party colleagues in your party then, not, say, 21 years after the season on the day you became a member of the SPD. Seems a little funny to me. [[19.00 hours]] Two. About the funds that Mr. Foldyna mentioned here, too. It is not true that the mission in Mali costs taxpayers 600 miles. Crowns. Every year, missions in Mali cost taxpayers up to 249 miles. Crowns. About what Mr. and President of KDU-ČSL Bartošek said here. I would like to assure him that he is counting on the perspective with the soldiers for 2021 on Mali at the same level as the previous mandate, i.e. 120 people, as well as 120 soldiers in 2022, and 120 in the outlook is also expected for 2023, but we will not talk about this until 2022. [[to be said 2020]] Then the chairman of the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club asked about the CASA aircraft. Certainly the CASA aircraft are envisaged in Sinai, which is also the subject of today's approval mandate. There's one CASA plane permanently, the other CASA aircraft holds cash. Thank God the Army of the Czech Republic has purchased or is planning and already has contracted secured two more aircraft CASA. So, as we've been told on the Defense Committee, these planes can be counted on for other operations. By more than one, they can also be used in other countries. I think that I, as rapporteur, have answered all the possible questions that we have been asked here as plaintiffs and rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u21	Thank you. I did not want to interrupt the rapporteur, but the level of noise really is excessive. I'm gonna ask you to calm down. I know it's already 19.01. If you have something to discuss, go to the foyer, allow your colleagues to perform. One more time, please calm down! Minister, you have your final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to be brief and respond to the questions that were here. So, honourable Members, I would like to respond to a few more things, as has been said here, and I will begin with the Sahel and Mali. Of course, we regularly inform on this matter and the deployment of soldiers, and it is not true that the House is not receiving information. Regularly, as we see from the resolution, once a year, we familiarize the House with the tasks and deployment of our soldiers in foreign operations and missions. That's one thing. As regards the aforementioned Sahel and Mali area. You all know that today Mali already has its President, has its Prime Minister, and by the time it didn't, so-called coupists have confirmed all the international commitments that resulted from the mission that is there, from the European Union mission. We are, as was in the past, in Mali for the training of the government forces that are there. You know very well that the Sahel region is one of the largest places where illegal migration takes place and, of course, there are local terrorist attacks. So our actions are very important there. And I disagree with questioning our soldiers' involvement in this mission. I would also like to point out that the European mission is not there for reasons other than the support and training of the Government Armed Forces. Furthermore, I would like to emphasise with regard to Iraq. As was said here, we are in Iraq at the invitation of the Iraqi government. In addition to the problems that were there at the beginning of this year, the Iraqi Government reiterated this invitation. These are the things that I would like to hear here, because questioning our soldiers' participation in foreign operations and missions is not a good way to get our soldiers and the Czech Republic's business card, because they are doing a great job and are being evaluated in this way. I would like to finish by saying a few things, as the questions have been raised here. We have currently proposed a really lower mandate than we had for this year and in the past, not only to say not to save money, but to agree with coalition partners, because the biggest decline and reduction is taking place in Afghanistan. Next - although we had a high mandate - we still expect support in the implementation of measures against covid in the Czech Republic. So that's basic stuff. And there was one other thing that I remember. Yes, we have maximum numbers for next year and 205 to Afghanistan for the next few years. We're not getting that number. But how it happened. This was during the period when the Doha Agreement was signed on 29 February and negotiations started between the United States and the Taliban. The figures in our mandate were already approved in May, and we have no longer changed those figures, even because there is a strong signal to support the government in Afghanistan and in relation to the Taliban, because the mandate, the United States and the Taliban agreement, is two-way... reversible, that is the right word I was looking for. And if the situation gets worse, there will be soldiers back in order to support and stabilise and take over the government's responsibility for security in the country. That would be all for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u23	Thank you. I am opening up a detailed debate. That is Mrs Černochová's entry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Allow me to sign up for the resolution that I have been reading here in the general debate. I propose to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the resolution recommended by the Committee on Defence, which I delivered in the framework of my intelligence report, in order to agree to the action of forces and resources in foreign operations according to the material submitted. At the same time, I ask for a separate resolution to vote on a proposal that is in line with the Ministry of Defence's proposal and discussed with colleagues of Minister Metnar. The lyrics would be: Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic 1. Supports the continued presence of the representative office of the Czech Republic in Kabul and calls on the Government to continue to maintain it if the security conditions allow; 2. Asks the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence to inform every three months the Defence Committee of the Chamber of Deputies on the development of the situation in Afghanistan and sub-Saharan Africa in connection with the participation of the Czech Republic in the military operations of NATO, the European Union, the UN and ad hoc coalitions in these areas, the current developments in these operations and the development of the number of Czech soldiers deployed. - That's where the numbers are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u25	Thank you. Anyone else in detail for the debate? If no one, I will end the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's an interest in final words. It's not like that. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I've just checked you all out, I'm asking you to re-enlist with your ID cards. And now we will vote in accordance with the recommendation of the Defence Committee. I would like to point out that the first part in which consent is given is governed by... Yes, there has to be a 101 vote, and there is a need for an absolute majority of all Members under Rule 39 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 Constitution of the Czech Republic. At this point, perhaps the number is steady. [[19.10 hours]] I will therefore repeat, we are voting the part of the resolution, where the Chamber of Deputies agrees with the action of the forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 256, registered 158, for 131, against 27. This proposal was adopted. We will also vote on the part of the resolution in which the Chamber of Deputies takes note of the allocation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence. This vote no longer requires the approval of an absolute majority of all, only an absolute majority of Members present. Kvorum is set to the information board correctly. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 257, 155 Members registered, for 139, versus four. I'm begging you, don't leave yet. We're still voting, and there's going to be an election announcement. Just hang in there with us a little bit longer. Next, we will vote on the part of the resolution in which: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to inform the Chamber of Deputies about the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 258, registered 158, for 153, against no one. The motion was accepted. Madame Pekarová Adamová withdraws her apology, she is present. We would now vote with one vote on the accompanying resolution, as Mrs Černochová just read it. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 259, registered 158, for 138, against no one. This resolution has also been approved. I note that we have dealt with all the proposals, as they were said during the debate. I am done discussing this point, and I ask the President of the Election Commission to introduce us to the results of today's elections. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-012-454.u26	Thank you very much and please one more minute. The election would be invalid if I didn't declare them. First Election Point Number
