ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u1	14. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2021 /German press 1067/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the draft bill will be presented by Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Madam Vice-President of the Government, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. The Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2021 approved Parliament's Chamber of Deputies at first reading. The draft state budget has been discussed in the relevant committees of the Chamber of Deputies, and I would now like to thank all the George Committees for discussing the various chapters of the State budget and, in particular, the Budget Committee for the comprehensive discussion and processing of the documents for the second reading. I assume that amendments to the draft state budget will be tabled at today's meeting, and in this context I would like to point out that chapter of the General Treasury has a budget of more than CZK 227 billion contained in tens of items. I would like to point out in advance that any amendment relating to the chapter of the General Treasury must necessarily include a specific specification of the items concerned, otherwise such a proposal is unvoting. I would also like to point out that the Budgetary Rules Act clearly defines the legal minimum amount of the government's budgetary reserve, which amounts to 0,3 % of the total expenditure of the state budget. I shall communicate my opinion on the proposed amendments when voting at third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u3	Thank you. The President of the Chamber of Deputies, in his decision, ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets. The budget committee resolution is available as the House's press 1067/2. The rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets is Mrs Miloslava Vostrá. I ask the rapporteur to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u4	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, the Committee on Budgets dealt with the state budget for its 48th meeting on 25 November and adopted resolution 486, which you have at your disposal. However, let me introduce you to him. Committee on Budgets I. Notes that all the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies discussed the chapters and headings of the state budget under Resolution No. 1336 of 11 November this year and adopted their resolutions with the exception of the Committee on Petitions, which did not adopt the resolution on the draft budget of Chapter 304 - Office of the Government of the Czech Republic; II. Notes that the following committees have recommended: The Chamber of Deputies shall adopt the following accompanying resolutions: 1. Economic Committee proposal: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to confirm (?) the need to ensure that the State's general readiness to deal with crisis situations is ensured (?) the current development of the SARS-Cov-2 pandemic, accentuating expenditure on the modernisation of emergency reserves created by the State Material Reserves Administration, while ensuring staff strengthening of state material reserves in order to ensure sufficient capacity for logistical and distribution activities for the work of state material reserves in crisis situations.' 2. The draft electoral committee: "The Chamber of Deputies warns the government that up to 8 members of the Radio and Television Council may end in 2021. If their mandate is not renewed, a total of up to CZK 3,800,000 will have to be paid out, which is not currently included in the budget of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council." 3. Proposal from the Agricultural Committee: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to further strengthen the budget chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture during 2021 in order to finance measures implemented in the context of climate change.'; III. empowers me, as rapporteur President, to introduce you to this resolution. Let me just remind you that the Committee on Budgets did not accept the part which recommends that the Chamber of Deputies agree to the State Budget for 2021. That is why, in essence, the motion for a resolution is only in the constitutional part, as I have introduced you to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening up a detailed debate on the draft law presented. Mr Roman Onderka is the first Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Tomio Okamura, and after him with priority rights with the opinion of the ČSSD club. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, our SPD movement is against this proposed state budget for many more than obvious reasons. First of all, the government is refusing to cut any unnecessary expenses that are now bringing nothing to decent people in the crisis. On the one hand, the government is paying money to political non-profit organizations supporting migration to the Czech Republic, buying expensive foreign military technology, and now supporting much more advanced Western economies in the crisis, sending Czech soldiers to combat missions to Central Africa and Afghanistan, while other NATO Member States are pulling troops home, and on the other hand, the government does not have enough money to support decent citizens. And that's wrong. The budget needs to be restructured and the SPD has drawn attention to this over the long term. But the government does not have the courage and apparently the coalition power to prepare the correct budget, because the relations between the government parties of the ANO movement, the ČSSD and the KSČM are in half-life. And literally all decent citizens of the Czech Republic will pay for it. I am glad that even thanks to the votes of the SPD Members, disability and old-age pensions will be increased by CZK 5,000 one time. They're orphans and widows' pensions, too. I'm glad the SPD votes are gonna give the elderly a raise next year. I am glad that, thanks to the SPD's votes, the super-gross wage will be abolished to keep working people more money in their wallets. But that's not enough. According to the recent agreement, the Czech army was to receive a record 85 billion next year by the Minister of Finance and Secretary of Defense Lubomír Metnar, both for YES. koruna, that means almost 13 billion. more than this year. The SPD movement supports the Czech army and our soldiers, nothing about that. But now in the crisis, in our view, expensive foreign purchases are needed, which will support the German, French and American economies with tens of billions of dollars. Moreover, the budget envisages a digital tax that is to bring 2.5 billion. Moreover, on the other hand, it does not address the tax changes proposed by the members of the government themselves. A draft state budget with a deficit of 320 billion. The koruna does not count on the effects of the abolition of the supergross wage. Members of the SPD have voted to cancel the supergross wage and increase the discount on the taxpayer because we want to leave more money in our wallets to the working people, and as the only ones we have also presented a package of budget savings where to take it. I just named some of the items. But the government is rejecting the savings of unnecessary spending. It's scary that the government's going to just shoot the budget from the side. And the government didn't even give herself a job to at least formally sit down. Formally, it means that at least the gross numbers fit. But the sad reality is that even the numbers are just the theater when the government adds it, but we never know what real efficiency these numbers will have, more precisely, and then we learn it from the Supreme Audit Office's audit findings, which, as usual, for decades and almost everywhere, always states that money is not spent effectively if it doesn't go straight through. Just the latest reports from the Supreme Audit Office. For example, the state has invested almost 2 billion in preparing the radioactive waste repository. and yet it is not clear where it should be. And that's what we're planning to build nuclear blocks for hundreds of billions. Again, it is not about whether or not we are to show up, but how amateur and expensive the government is working on it. And the fact is that the idea of nuclear energy degenerates this fuss, because the fact that the construction of nuclear blocks will be delayed and expensive is a bet for sure, and it's not just about billions, it's about everyday efficiency. To set another example, again from the Supreme Audit Office's report. The Ministry of Regional Development did not negotiate rents in 2014 at least in the amount that was usual in the given place and time. During the period from the conclusion of the contract to the end of the control of the Supreme Audit Office, the Ministry of Regional Development reduced the revenues from state property and state budget revenues by at least 41 million. Crowns. Moreover, the tenant did not fulfil all the agreed obligations, but the Ministry did not apply any contractual sanctions against him. In another case, the Ministry of Regional Development did not enforce a claim for more than 8 million. The crown, and so there was a statute of limitations. I will add that the Ministry has been leading ministers for the YES movement for seven years. And to be fair, I will add that at that time she was the minister of the predecessor of the present Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, there are billions and hundreds of millions flying in debates on any budget, both on the revenue and expenditure side. Once upon a time, many years ago, the European Union published a surprisingly beneficial study called Factor IV. This study demonstrated that in practically all areas, at least a quarter of energy can be saved through behavioral changes or new technologies. To this day, I lack a similar analysis of studies to manage the state, which would undoubtedly have to say that without significant changes to the laws, only if we work and manage efficiently, we will also achieve at least a quarter, i.e. 25% savings. Not to be afraid and steal, said President Masaryk, and I would add to not being afraid to think and not steal. The government of the YES, ČSSD and KSČM will undoubtedly think about where to get and will want to take someone because they refuse to make cuts. Why do so - called "inadaptable people " still have equal doses, while working people lose their jobs, their incomes, and their problems? I consider any tax increases to decent people in this situation to be the theft of money that citizens, businessmen and businesses have earned through their work. Not to be afraid to think is true for both government and ministers, and for those who run state firms and should make money for the state. A frightening example is the management of the Czech Post, which has on one hand a huge number of honest and poorly paid workers, such as delivery companies, and on the other hand has been overrun by high managers for decades in the worst sense, who take million-dollar rewards and million-dollar gold parachutes. [[14.30 hours]] Post office reported a loss of 363 miles last year. CZK and currently announced the intention to release about 1,500 employees, of which 700 postal carriers are to be provided. When you hear this and you see it, it's fainting. And to fire not only the pseudo-managers, but also the ministry minister, who has the post office in Gestapo. It is important to emphasise loudly here that Czech Post falls under the Minister of the Interior and Chairman of the ČSSD Jan Hamáček. And he should draw full responsibility from his inability to do so. First of all, who do these geniuses want to fire when the post office has traditionally and in the long run not been able to keep up with the excuse that they aren't human? Let me remind you once again that layoffs are supposed to be about delivery companies, chauffeurs who drive packages or people behind the counters. Not incompetent managers. For example, the Czech division of the worldwide DHL mail order giant increased sales year-on-year by almost 100 miles last year. $7.6 billion. Its operating profit slightly increased to more than 130 miles. Significantly, despite the growth in sales, this foreign company taxed by 30 million. Crowns less than a year ago. E.g. The development of e-shops, and thus of postal transport, is a model of how the state loses money, in all levels. While the Czech Post makes a loss and asks the State to subsidize it, private foreign companies are profitable and even little that they admit, they cut to a minimum year after year. No offense to them. They do what the government allows them to do. Government of the movement YES, ČSSD and KSČM. And it supports multinational corporations at the expense of Czech companies. This is what we see today, when Czech shops must be closed, while transnational chains with the same product range are open. This kind of government action is unacceptable to the SPD. But back to the Czech Post. The government has an obligation to do its utmost to make the state company prosper and generate revenue for the state budget. And, of course, it also has a duty to do whatever it takes for foreign companies to leave a reasonable share of their profits with us. Minister of the Interior and Chairman of the ČSSD Hamáček, under which the post office belongs, had the opportunity to show what was in it and to make Czech Post a profit company that has the potential to make hundreds of millions of net profits and employ tens of thousands of people. He showed nothing and failed again. We could go on like this forever. But all I will mention is that the SPD has proposed concrete amendments in the order of more than two tens of billions. Specific amendments to this draft state budget for next year. These amendments would quite painlessly and immediately save money by, on the one hand, supporting decent citizens financially and, on the other hand, cutting unnecessary government spending. I have already spoken about the most misguided purchases of foreign combat technology that will not help the military significantly. These purchases are just an injection for foreign companies and foreign economies, and they can certainly be postponed at least. We are in a state where the state is supposed to help Czech companies and their employees. There is certainly a continuous modernization of the Czech army to discuss, but it is necessary that primarily Czech companies with Czech employees who pay taxes in the Czech Republic and not foreign entities benefit from it in the crisis. We are, of course, proposing further cuts to the expenditure involved. For example, for such government-designed absurdity as the advisory body of the government on gender equality. We have a lot of useless, non-productive gender specialists wandering around the country, and it is quite pointless to mess with both government and budget. And I'm still expecting an answer from Prime Minister Babiš when he promised me he'd look, he promised me here a month ago, here in the House, that he'd look at why the government paid off, for example. a political nonprofit organization, an organization to help refugees is called, led by a Mr. Rozumek, why this organization and other pro-migration organizations, which literally support migration to the Czech Republic, why the government from ministries pays them money. The government openly supports migration to the Czech Republic. And again, I remind you that this Organization for Aid to Refugees led by a Mr. Rozumek even sued the Czech Republic on behalf of illegal Afghan migrants, and wonder why, at the Czech court, they still sued 180 thousand. For every illegal migrant that the authorities here, specifically the police, haven't treated them the way they should have. They said they were placed in some kind of malfunctioning device or something. And that's really scandalous. So the government pays money in the budget to a political non-profit organization supporting migration to the Czech Republic, which is still suing the Czech Republic, and then sucks money out of our budget next to support illegal Afghan migrants, and the government continues to pay! It is an openly pro-migration government that supports illegal migration from Muslim countries. There's nothing more to say. I've already asked the Prime Minister twice what he's gonna do about it. The Prime Minister always says he's gonna find out, and the deed's gone. So that's what's going on in the budget, in short. And then the government of the ANO, CSSD and KSČM will pay, these pro-migration nonprofits here. This really is completely unacceptable for us. The SPD movement says we need money for decent people, for our decent citizens. Seniors, disabled, singles, working people, working families with children, students. Those are our priorities. My speech on the subject of the government's draft state budget for 2021 would end with a classic statement: "This is what we do when others lend to us!" Unfortunately, unlike Haškův's Feldkurat Katz, we and our children will pay the debts that the government has chopped up for us. For us, it is not an ideological problem for the state to borrow and invest. On the contrary, that is what every prudent caretaker does. But the problem is, when it's really just borrowing, some are feasting and the rest are just waiting for repayment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u7	Thank you. Apologies of the members of the government: Minister of Health Jan Blatný apologizes from 14.15 to the end of the meeting day for urgent work reasons and for working reasons, from 12 a.m. to the end of the meeting day the Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček apologizes. Mr. Roman Onderka will now perform with priority rights for the ČSSD club. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary and Ministers, colleagues, just a brief response from colleague Okamur. It would be good to talk about what you know and not talk about things just to get to the press or the media. For example, at the post office of restructuring proposed by the Minister of the Interior, about 300 employees will be affected specifically by the postman position. Post office management has decreased wages by 5%. I think that the steps taken by management at the post office and the Ministry of the Interior under the leadership of Jan Hamáček are positive not only so that the post office can finally get into black numbers and can function like any normal company, but at the same time make these changes as sensitive as possible with regard to social matters. So, through the President, Mr Okamura, if you want information, I spoke to the President of the Czech Social Democratic Party and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, about three minutes ago, and is ready to give you any information so that next time you don't say things about this microphone that you either don't know or hear them out. With regard to the budget that we are currently discussing at second reading, it must be said that social democracy perceives the time at which we are, and I will therefore repeat, as I said at first reading, that the Social Democrats will support the budget agreed by the government at its meeting. That means a budget with a deficit of 320 billion. The COVID-19 pandemic means unprecedented intervention in the operation of the state and economy of the Czech Republic. The necessary expenditure to stop or reduce pandemics and repair the damage incurred requires an extremely high budget deficit and a debt burden for future generations. In this situation, it is necessary to concentrate all available resources on the above mentioned objectives, which I will define. [[14.40 hours]] An unforgettable part of the state budget of the Czech Republic is undoubtedly subsidies to non-state non-profit organizations. On the basis of the Government's Resolution of 9 September 2019 number 639, a total of 18 areas to which 8 billion were designated in 2020 have been established by the main areas of the State grant policy towards these organisations for 2021. 15 miles. CZK from public funds. The total non-investment transfers to non-profit and similar organisations were 16,6 billion according to the State Budget Final Account for 2019. Crowns. We consider the current crisis situation to be wrong for the state not to focus these resources on the greatest threat at the moment. In our opinion, the decisive part of the funds allocated to non-profit organisations should be temporarily redirected during the pandemic to support health care and vulnerable groups to combat pandemics, to help the most economically affected categories of population - seniors, single mothers, fresh unemployed - to develop the physical and mental health of the population, to sport, culture and to support science, especially taking into account innovation in medicine. That is why we have decided to submit an accompanying resolution on the state budget for next year, to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate. This resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to direct all funds from the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2021 exclusively to support health, socio-economic care for pandemic victims and vulnerable target groups." Social democracy has, among other things, read into the system and tabled several amendments. For my part, it is the promotion of live art and regional cultural institutions, which means theatres in the Czech Republic, in an increase of 300 million. CZK to the existing 400. That means the total amount would be 700 miles. Crowns. In order to obtain these 300 million, we propose to reduce the expenditure of Chapter 398 in a specific indicator of other expenditures by an amount of 150 million. CZK, in the same chapter in the specific indicator of contributions to the budget of the European Union by an amount of 80 million. and expenditure of Chapter 398, again in a specific indicator of the government budgetary reserve of 70 million. Crowns. It must be said that this amendment consists in helping the area that not only did not have it easy, but which had it absolutely impossible from the point of view of its functioning in the Czech Republic this year, and we can expect that also in the next year. It is important to note that regional theatres, as they work in culture today, are alive either from some contributions, because they can be a contribution organization of cities and municipalities, and, of course, they mainly work from subscriptions. Subscriptions that they receive, but unfortunately these viewers could not apply. Visitors of cultural facilities simply did not get to these theatres thanks to the covido and the decision of the government on measures against COVID-19. We can tell that she didn't play these theaters. When we look at the situation as it is in the Czech Republic, they will not play until the end of the year. When we look at how it would relax next year, we can say that January, February, maybe. And at that point, we're going to work on maybe two, maybe three months of the season. And they're gonna have to return the subscription. Some theatres are lucky enough to attract the attention of sponsors, and these sponsors pay them a lot of money to function because they appreciate their activities. But it has to be said that every sponsor's donation is conditional, of course, on its implementation, which means, for example, by issuing a name for a company or some of its promotional material in a foyer after a period, and now I'm going to say at random, like seven or twelve prime ministers and ten classic performances and so on. The conditions are different, of course. And even this couldn't fill the theatre, because there were no premieres. These theatres were normally closed. And I think in addition to the fact that people always need it essential, that is, a roof over their heads, having a job to make money to eat, they need free time. They also need the cultural component that gives us important things, enriches our personalities on the one hand, and on the other reminds us of the good things, but also the bad things we have done historically in the past to learn from it. This is one of the amendments I tabled. And I will rejoin the debate in detail. The last thing I want to talk to is the amendment tabled by my colleague Václav Votava. We're going 50 percent in the Chamber of Deputies, it's for participation, which means it's not present. I am signing up for this amendment. This amendment will affect the Government's bill on the budget of the Czech Republic for next year, in the sense that it takes 3 million. CZK to the Czech Association of Fighters for Freedom and adds 2 million. The crowns to the legionnaires and 1 million. CZK to the Czechoslovak Institute of Foreign Affairs. I confess, perhaps most of us, or even dare to say that we all know the Czechoslovak community very well. And I don't think there's anyone here who doesn't appreciate her activities without a doubt. On the other hand, I am not entirely convinced that we all know what the Czechoslovak Institute of Foreign Affairs is. And here I would just like to point out to you, my fellow Members, that the mission of the Czechoslovak Foreign Institute is to take care of foreign compatriots, to support and facilitate their national and cultural relations with the old country, to maintain national awareness, to promote economic cooperation and to help them return to their homeland. The Institute was founded after long preparations on 20 December 1928 as part of the celebrations of the 10th anniversary of the Czechoslovak Republic. The idea of its establishment comes from the first President of the Republic of Tomáš Garigu Masaryk. And I think that this support should be applied to this legacy. It might be a question of why take the 3 miles. The Czech Freedom Warriors Union. You know, the Czech Freedom Warriors Union is supposed to remind the heroes of the National Resistance for Liberation in World War II. Unfortunately, the work of this Union has become more than controversial in recent years, especially under the administration of the current leadership and, above all, the President. The current activity of the association deviated significantly from its original mission and often denies the values on which the association was built. These are not only some public scandals, but also the lack of transparency in the management of the Union. Already in 2016, the House Audit Committee pointed out the useless and inefficient treatment of subsidies from public budgets. The financial management dealt with the management of the Czech Freedom Warriors Union on the basis of a complaint from the Ministry of Finance and according to the ČSBS audit it was not credible to demonstrate some operating expenses for the organization of commemorative and operational events. I do not think that we should take all the funds and support from this Union, because this union is not just about the President, about leadership. There are many really good and capable people who really take the reference to World War II very seriously and follow why this union came into existence. But I think that a raised finger from the Chamber of Deputies as part of the transfer of funds, as I mentioned, should be appropriate in this case. Thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen, and have a nice day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u9	That was the position of the CSSD Club, Mr. Onderka. And now, with priority right, I'm going to ask Vice-President of the House and Chairman of the ODS, Petr Fiala. And will be prepared with the priority right of Chairman TOP 09 Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u10	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I have signed up as President of the ODS with a political speech, but allow me to make one comment at the outset from the position of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. In the case of the state budget, the Rules of Procedure lay down a slightly different procedure, so we are now only having a detailed debate at second reading. I am saying this because some of you have applied to the general, even Mr Onderka has said that he will then apply in detail. Please warn everyone, we are now in detail and we are only having a detailed debate at second reading. I volunteered with a few comments. I respect the format of the detailed debate, and I will certainly save the broader political speech for the third reading. But something happened between the first and the second reading, which has an impact on the state budget, and therefore a few more general remarks. I must admit, and you know that the budgets of the past years did not bring as they were discussed here in this House, for us from the Civil Democratic Party, for us, which I would call economic liberals on the budget, did not bring much joy. Why, I guess that's obvious. The budgets, as they were presented here, did not take advantage of a unique long period of high economic growth for some strong impulses, but more and more money from taxpayers was used to run the state, to spend various expenses, sometimes even bribe voters or specific electoral groups. At the same time, a period of great and long economic growth was not used for some massive investment in infrastructure. See what our roads look like, look at the investment in education, science, research. On the one hand, some investment plans for eight trillion crowns were waved, but on the other hand, budgets were signed, where investment in proportion to GDP did not move in the same amount as during the economic crisis. And let's not forget that this year's budget was already in trouble before the pandemic came. The pandemic somehow covered it up. I don't want to say that the government is lucky in this regard, but if the crisis we're going through isn't here, at the end of this year, we would have a government that didn't use the high economic growth season to have strong investment results, to reduce taxes, to have sustainable government spending. And I don't really want to do this. I'm not here to describe the sins of the government, I think this is the last budget that this government is drawing up. But I would like to mention two things that I consider to be good news in relation to the negotiations on the budget and the state finances, i.e. two good news. First good news. Two weeks ago, in the Chamber of Deputies, we approved a tax reduction for four and a half million employees. I hope we can get this story to a successful end. And I'm going to name it by its real names. This really is no scarecrow, no disaster, on the contrary, it is good news - the government will take less money from people, leave them more money, people will have higher incomes. That's good news, in my opinion, good news from every possible point of view. The second good news is that for some mysterious reason that cannot be completely rationally explained, this decision by the Chamber of Deputies has caused great concern to a large part of the media and political environment about the size of the state budget deficit. Yes, it's a secret. Note: 500 billion deficits approved by the government, or by the government majority, for this year. The proposed 320 billion deficit for next year. Not even the nearly trillion-dollar deficit planned in the course of those four years for the next three years, so none of it caused such a media political storm as the tens of billions that the state budget is supposed to have less money, but not because it's lost somewhere, not because they're gonna go for nonsense, but because they're gonna let people have it. And four and a half million people will have a higher income of 7 percent. They'll know in February. I think that's really very good news. Well, what's the good news, though, when I said it caused such enormous media attention and concern? I see the good news in the fact that suddenly, after long years in the state budget, savings are expected to be found. That there will be some cuts, that there will be reasonable savings in unreasonable and inefficient or inexpensive expenditures that are not entirely inevitable. And this is actually a unique situation, a new situation, and I think that as President of the Civil Democratic Party, I can judge it, and I can appreciate it. Because in recent years, we have consistently put forward suggestions on how to save, how to get rid of some of the expenses that we consider unnecessary, pointless, redundant. They were proposals of 40, 50 billion each year. Last year, we proposed how to save 46 billion, 40.5 billion before last year. And I have to say, no one outside the walls of this hall - I'm not talking about the MPs and members of the government - but nobody cared much behind the walls of this hall, nobody appreciated it. This year it is different, so, of course, also this year my colleagues will put forward such proposals, proposals for savings of tens of billions of crowns, and we will be applying here for support. I hope to support the House of Budget Responsibility. And the attention paid to these savings and budgetary discipline will certainly contribute to a good solution. And we're going to propose, my colleagues are going to make concrete proposals, so that we can use the money to pay off the state debt. The money we're gonna save. And at the same time, I would believe that I expect everyone to do their part. Not only the Civil Democratic Party, but also that other players will come up with savings and proposals on where to save money. In this case, I address the government, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, first or foremost, because the government needs to come up with proposals for savings, and so is government responsibility. Like I said, we come up with tens of billions of savings, but that's just the beginning. And if more join in, and if the government joins in, we can achieve a good result. To get a tip for the government where I might be able to start, I'm gonna show you a table. [[He's pointing.]] It is a table of the Ministry of Finance, which was prepared by the Ministry of Finance, and here the proposal or this solution was presented at a press conference in February 2019 by the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister and they said that the number of officials can be reduced by around 10 percent in 2020. Here's the chart. I didn't process it. So if the government applied to this, to the February 2019 proposal, and now we've implemented it somehow, we're definitely going to move on. But I don't really tell the government where she's supposed to be looking for the cuts herself. We'll show where we see savings, where we think we can save money. And I'm just kind of assuming that other people are gonna join it. So, ladies and gentlemen, here's some instructions to begin with, and I'm looking forward to proposing savings. Surely the Civil Democratic Party is prepared to support a lot of good proposals, your proposals. And if, for example, you do not come up with any savings that are strong, I ask you to support the proposals of the Civil Democratic Party in the interests of budgetary responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u11	Now I have one point of fact here, so Mr Roman Onderka will be prepared by the Chairman of the TOP 09, Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Just a short reaction. I thank Vice-President Fial. He is right, of course, that the budget is only in detail. I would like to add to my speech that I am signing up for Amendment No 6830, which are in Chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture, also the amendment of Mr Votava No. 6898, which concerns Chapter 398 in relation to the Czech Union of Freedom Fighters, the Czechoslovak community of the Legionary and Czechoslovak Institute of Foreign Affairs. I sign up for Amendment No 7002 as accompanying resolution on the State Budget Act 2021, House Press 1067. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u13	Thank you. And now, the Chairman of the TOP 09, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, will be speaking and Mr Dominik Feri will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u14	Thank you for the floor. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a very brief comment not only on the amendments I wish to make in this detailed debate, which I am presenting, but a more general approach to the draft budget for 2021 for the TOP 09. What will certainly affect, and there can be no doubt about it, the next year's budget, is how we will still be doing this year, and we really only have a few weeks left of it, with the help of those who are in need of the crisis that is caused this year by the pandemic of coronavirus in the Czech Republic, affected and how we will deal with the help that we, from the state, need now. They need it because often their businesses, businesses or their employers, if they are employees, they often fight every day for bare survival, and often they were forbidden by government regulations to do business and carry on living. That is why it is possible to look at the next year's budget with the optics of the promised compensations this year and with the help that we have often approved here, or which the government announces with its programmes on individual ministries. Sadly, that promise has really been very bombastic since spring, but the reality behind it is limping on all its legs, and even if it had more than two, it will limp. At the end of November, only 166 billion were paid for these individual direct forms of aid. CZK, and this is only 56 percent of the promised direct aid, as has been said many times since the government. After all, it is clear that this will have an impact on the economy next year. The more companies go bankrupt, the more companies and businesses they won't be able to get on their feet, continue to employ people, continue to create values, thus continuing to offer their products or services to people, the bigger the problem we will have in the economy. That is why I consider it our duty to look at the aid paid and really speed up its pace as much as possible. Each day for many thousands of people, it is a huge problem, a huge problem. In November of this year, we have crossed the historical record for the second time. The deficit, which was in May, 63.7 billion. The Czech koruna, which was then record-breaking, was once again overcome, and the deficit in the last month was even 68,6 billion. Crowns. These are huge sums that few of us could have imagined a year ago that they could have even been realized in the monthly interval. And now they're a reality, and that's a reality that we have to deal with. So we have to deal with the fact that many services, especially services that account for 60 percent of our gross domestic product, remind all those who make it easy, that it is leisure activities or that it is a sector that does not create enough values, that it is really wrong, and that it is very deeply wrong, so it really falls on the mouth in many sectors. And I think that it is our duty to constantly, also in connection with the fact that the government will again want to ask for a long extension of the emergency situation, not only to have a debate on these matters, that is not to be eaten, but, above all, to really improve the actual implementation of compensation and assistance itself. So I want to appeal to the government to work on this issue, because we are constantly receiving the reaction of all those affected, that they have not yet been helped, that all forms that are written out are being paid up, and, of course, the big problem is the impossibility of combining some of them. Why do I say that? Let us not forget that people who want to create these values now, but cannot, who have had to suspend their activities again for a few weeks, their trade, and many, even if there is already a partial dislodgement, will not continue to do business, because they will still not be affected by the dislodgement, or they will slowly come on their feet and it will certainly not be so that they can quickly get to those pre-crisis numbers, so very probably many of them can expand the recipients of social benefits next year, social assistance for those people who really will have no choice but to end up at the employment office. This is certainly a change that will play a role in the approved budget. These people must be very unhappy with the view of a budget that does not give the state ambitious targets in terms of some savings. The government's effort to save is really, if ever, only cosmetic. It is not sufficient, and my amendment to which I wish to sign up and has in System No. 7008, it should also address this part. Firms, businessmen, individual households, families, individuals really often rotate each crown and think about each of their expenses. The state should not be behind them at all, on the contrary, it should lead by example and start by itself with the fact that it will deal with every expense and think very well about whether we can afford it, whether it brings something, whether it is really necessary. So if the private sector is saving this, and the living one, the state one, it is also necessary to look at savings in civil servants' salaries, officials who over the past seven years have been increasing by thousands, if not tens of thousands, in the last seven years of the ČSSD governments and the YES movement. Moreover, in connection with the fact that we are dealing here, or now it is on the Senate's desk, today specifically the Senate Economic Committee, a tax package which, by abolishing the supergross wage with which the TOP 09 disagreed, and in this constellation and in this context, the time we are experiencing, we could not vote for it, so, of course, means yet another uprising for the budget for next year. That is why I am coming in this amendment with a proposal to set up a new item in Chapter 398 of the General Treasury, an item under the name of funds to compensate for less than planned tax revenues, and I propose to raise this item straight up, because it is not created, so create with it being more than 29.5 billion. Crowns. [[15.10 hours]] On the contrary, the expenditure that I propose to reduce overall in 64 specific chapters can be summarised in about three basic chapters. The first is the Ministry of Agriculture, where I propose that we provide less to support the agrifood complex, i.e. subsidies that go to agriculture. I also propose that we reduce the indicator of other expenditures associated with the state's transport policy at the Ministry of Transport, which is what we have been criticising from the start for fare discounts, i.e. 6 billion. Crowns. So we have 16 billion at a time. Crowns. And the rest, that's the third chapter, but containing 62 different items - let me sum it up simply - that's an effort to really save on the salaries of civil servants, especially officials. This should certainly not concern so much of the health sector being tested today, which is not included, as is the defence and as is the education. You will not find these three chapters in my proposal completely deliberately, because if something is to lead us out of the crisis, it is definitely education for future generations and current ones, so of course it is our health system, which is now very tested, and I would not consider it right for him to start the investigation, and it is not possible to weaken our defences, of course, either, so that defence does not concern my proposal here. To the level of 2018, I am trying to get the very item in those 62 specific chapters of the budget, which concerns salaries, so that we can close the long-running scissors between the private sector and the state sector, where the paradox is beginning to occur that the private sector has a significant limp in the possibilities of increasing wages for the public sector, where wage increases occur. And it's not possible for those who live on their taxes to look at how those who are fed in quotation marks - I know it's a big shortcut, of course I realize it - those salaries are rising so significantly. In short, we find the remaining space to increase the item that I want to create in the budget, and 29.5 billion. We can deduct this step from the planned increase in the deficit next year, which is to be done in connection with the approval of the abolition of the supergross wage and other steps in the tax package. For TOP 09, this amendment is, of course, only a first step towards being able to cope with such a fundamental change in the tax system, which will create demands and structural deficits for the future, which will definitely require us to save even higher. And it's the first step in getting us started. And certainly when planning the budget for 2022, i.e. next year, not only such savings will need to be taken into account, but much higher in the budget, so that we can get our deficits back under control. And I'm saying that knowing that it's definitely not gonna be easy or maybe even popular. It should also be noted that in our view of how to address the whole issue of the increase in the deficit in relation to the tax package and its overstretchedness, it is necessary to return to it the Act on budgetary liability rules, in which the amendment seeks to amend it, Prime Minister Babiš. It is totally unacceptable for us and we will strive for this change in the Senate. This is another of our two crucial key conditions for us to even consider a change that has a rapid impact on our budgets for future years. The next amendment I am proposing is 6984, and I hereby declare it. It concerns the Ministry of Culture on the cost increase page, namely 17.8 million. CZK, for the promotion of living art, i.e. the expense block of cultural service and the promotion of living art. The amount, of course, is not dizzying in the overall concept, but in the sense of the change that I propose to reduce, that is a very important symbol. The reduction of expenditure is due to take place in the chapter of the Office of the President of the Republic, in several places, because, for example, in the case of the President of the Republic. investment transfers to contributing and similar organisations, where there is a reduction of 12 million. for the forest administration of the Lana, it is our symbolism that with regard to the case, which is in the forest administration The ropes have been happening in recent months and years, in which Chancellor Mynář, Chancellor without clearance, who has much more than that, cannot only take account of these steps, which not only Mr Mynář, but also others are doing there, but it is necessary to give a clear signal that it is not possible to make milk cow out of these items. So that's one of the ones I take the most money from and move to live culture. Another concerns the President's travels. This is, in essence, an evergreen that is presented to each budget every year because we clearly believe that we should make it clear as the Chamber of Deputies that if the President is the one who represents the Czech Republic, he must also act in accordance with government policy on his or her travels, as well as abroad, and this has not been done at all lately. So it is necessary to take into account the fact that the President - this year it was clear, clear - is unable to spend this amount, given that he is not going anywhere, is not invited anywhere, and therefore there is no reason for the item to remain in full. The other adjustments I have relate again to salaries, precisely in the Office of the President of the Republic, where I propose a reduction of more than 2.5 miles. CZK, and of course the other part also concerns insurance premiums, which is closely related to this. So I think we can make it clear how to manage the Castle and its surroundings, Mr President and its surroundings, and the money can certainly be used more usefully to support highly tested artists who are undersupported. The last amendment also concerns the Ministry of Culture on the side of expenditure increases, namely in the indicator of the contribution organisation set up by the Ministry of Culture, the programme of national cultural treasure and heritage care. And I want to move three billion in particular. CZK from the support of the agrifood complex, i.e. from subsidies that are for agriculture, especially because state castles and locks are one of those areas which are very affected by the Corona crisis, of course, from the point of view of the outages on admission fees, and even if these lost profits have been compensated for in part, so that we can keep them in good condition and improve this cultural heritage for the next generation, so it is necessary to increase investment precisely until recovery. These are specifically more than 100 buildings belonging to the National Heritage Institute and it is also an opportunity for investments that would take place in these monuments, which would help start a wide range of crafts and professions around them. It is precisely what can help people who can continue to work. So it's a whole series of effects that it brings, and 3 billion. The Czech crowns will certainly be used much better there than on originally intended funds for subsidies. I think that the amendments are, in substance, very reasonably balanced. We are not trying to do something huge here, but in terms of priorities it is possible to show what we really care about as the Chamber of Deputies - on the one hand, on a sustainable budget, on a sustainable future budget, on the other hand, also on the sustainability of our cultural heritage and on its huge commitment, which, of course, every generation takes on. I am very much asking you to support these amendments. I therefore report to the three amendments. Let me repeat the number - 6984, 6985 and 7008. Thank you both for your attention and in advance for supporting these amendments at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u15	The Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek will now speak with priority right and will be prepared with priority right President STAN Vít Rakušan. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u16	Thanks. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'm sorry, I can't listen, so I couldn't sleep tonight if I didn't call you back. So allow me, although Mr Petr Fiala said it was a detailed debate, he would refrain from any more general considerations, but he did not forgive them in the end. I, as I say, can't keep my mouth shut because it seems to me that in this House, once again, those zombie ideas of the old Czech right are sounding completely unresponsive, so it seems to me that it shouldn't get away with it. Let me just remind you what President Petr Fiala here said, the two classic zombie ideas were, the one, the president said he didn't understand the scream that came about by just a few tens of billions that would strengthen the state budget deficit, a few tens of billions that he thought would just mean the money in the pockets of 3.5 million people, so what's wrong with that, that's a good thing after all. And the second zombie idea was that of course we're going to fix it, because at the same time we're going to put forward proposals for a few tens of billions of savings, which are going to probably compensate the tens of billions in people's pockets, which, of course, is just a good thing, and no one can argue with that. Well, I'd like to repeat to President Fial once again what I think maybe it's pointless to say here, but I think it should be said at least. The zombie idea he keeps repeating here is, and he still can't get over it, even though he's 20 years old, it's like a 25-, 30-year-old Czech mistake that simply tax cuts increase growth. He told the Prime Minister why we're afraid of the deficit, that it's gonna increase the deficit a little bit, because it's gonna increase the growth. So this sentence, I repeat, is not true, I would like him not to repeat it here again. Yes, he's right about the first one. At this point, there are texts everywhere that say that thanks to the second wave of pandemics, the state needs to help with increased spending. You're gonna read it now. You're gonna read it in America today, just like you're gonna read it in Europe. Indeed, there is a call to increase deficits, to increase spending, to overcome the next wave of pandemics, otherwise the economies will be put at risk. That's true. In this sense, it is possible to say that the deficit itself is not evil. But it is not possible to accept the second, the zombie idea that the President repeats that the fact that we have reduced taxes and that we will limit them is beneficial in itself, because it will reduce our growth and the deficit will be well used. That's just not true. Deficit has clearance if it kicks in the economy. And let me repeat once again here, if we raise taxes in high-income, so such an increase... such a reduction, sorry, such a tax reduction doesn't kick off the economy to high-income people, and almost nobody does it, at least tell me who's doing it, that's just not true. These tens of billions he says nothing's going on are tens of billions that are inefficient because they just won't go into consumption. That means that such a deficit is futile. Such a deficit is barren, as much as I would defend the idea of a deficit in such a situation, so I simply cannot defend it at a time when the money simply does not serve what it has to keep the economy going or to help revive it. And the second thesis he's saying, I'm almost surprised that this zombie idea is about to repeat that they're going to be coming back with those tens of billions of savings. Well, I'm curious about that, because I know what those savings ideas looked like ten years ago in Mr. Topolánek and Mr. Kalousek's submission, and that's when they brought in the austere, the strangulation that, we know how much it cost us. And I would like to point out that in general, such savings are, in the end, mostly savings in areas such as quality schools such as health care, such as what is to be invested in people, in the future. So this is how these savings end. They limit what actually creates the conditions of people's future lives. And if he comes up with those ideas of being across-the-board, crossing-out, maybe we'll best cut off those hated officials, then I'll admit it's irritating to me today, too. On the one hand, we're counting on what we're supposed to cover, who we're supposed to help, so I have a small ministry, with a limited number of people, and we have to give a lot of titles, hand out money, so we're pulling it out of the credit cards, we're gathering people to do it, like there's no one else who would do it, and these officials, who today are even short, and we're criticized for not doing it faster - why don't we do it faster? Because I'm no longer able to pull more people out of credit cards to do that. So I'm still gonna cut them down across the board? I'll tell you if I'm gonna cut across the board, if I'm gonna cut through those ranks of officials, we're not gonna be able to do that! Just like then, don't ask us to help the different segments, or tell them, they won't be able to do it because we're going to lower their officials. Who's supposed to do that? These hateful officials, these are the ones who work with the data, those are the only ones who are actually able to perform the role of state today, and the state in this situation today has the role to help people, that they pay them all kinds of help, various forms of subsidies, contributions, compensatory bonuses, contributions to the self-employed, everything! Take the Department of Labour and Social Affairs and others, this must be done by people and it is not possible to do it at the same time, strengthen the role of the state, which is happening, and at the same time simply restrict it and release those people. I'm just telling you, it's kind of funny to me. If anyone comes up with the idea of firing these officials, I'll tell you right, but in that case, we can't do those programs! I can't sit there alone and write it down! That's completely absurd! We need to think about what we want! It seems pointless to me how it's said here on one side, how to limit it, and on the other side it's said how to give more. And when Mr. Fiala is speaking here, it seems pretty awful to me. His mayor of the ODS in Brno came up with the idea that Brno would just get rid of cultural facilities, the National Theatre, just let it pay for the state. That's an amazing attitude. That means they solve the problem by getting rid of it. Let him take it on his own. Apparently, they won't want to transfer the money back to the state, the ones they had for culture, except we'll take it and they'll keep the money. They will probably be satisfied in Brno that Prague will decide who will run Brno cultural institutions and decide whether there will be an opera or not and so on, they probably don't care. Apparently, it doesn't matter to them at all. So this is probably what the cutbacks and the stunts are gonna look like. So it just seems to me that this idea, slightly said here, that we're going to bring you tens of billions of dollars, how we're going to cut it off, what we threw out the window here, something that's not going to go back to the economy like some multiplier or something that's going to multiplicate growth, so I'd like to wait for these cuts because I can imagine what they're going to look like and what they're actually going to do in the future. These are idle promises, and we've seen how they work in the past and how they've damaged this state. So I would appeal terribly to the President to make these two zombie ideas, the one thing that tax cuts or tax cuts themselves increase growth so that he doesn't repeat here, as well as the idea of cutting us off that will save us here. Because the cuts, that's already here, I repeat, for Mr. Topolánek and Mr. Kalousek once were, and we know how it turned out! I'd rather not mention it at all. And it actually seems to me like it's some kind of economic ignorance that it's possible to repeat these zombie things here with impunity for years and pretend like we haven't learned anything. Do you understand? A whole bunch of these things are being processed today. Studies on how reductions affect economic growth exist! I think I'm really gonna have to bring them to you! I thought the last time I talked about it, you'd read it, you'd bother and look at it! But you keep saying it like it doesn't go down. I'll say it again! You can't prove to me that tax cuts reduce growth! You can't prove to me that cutting taxes through high incomes will somehow help the economy today. No one here answered my question! And you're not just gonna give me cutbacks, ten-billion-dollar cuts that will solve everything! You had a chance to make cuts like this here, and I hope you won't have a chance in the future, because once you've ruined the country economically!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u17	Now the Minister's speech has ripped down a few factual remarks, so I will read them so that Members can keep track, as it is not on the screen. So Vice-President of the House and Chairman of the ODS Petr Fiala will be the first to speak, and the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura will be the third to prepare a member of the Pirates Radek Holomčík. Prime Minister, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u18	I admit I don't know what zombie thoughts are. I know from the philosophy of zombie argument, but that's completely different. This concerns separation of mind from body, and now it seems to me that the Minister of Culture has separated words from thinking and words from reality. I will not argue with your typical socialist position, which has led many countries into economic difficulties and has caused problems for many people. That's your right. I don't even convince you to think lower taxes are good. I'm sure you don't think so. You wouldn't be raising them all the time, either. I respect that you have this view, but I will argue with what you made up because you argued with yourself, with your ideas and with your political party. The first thing I definitely didn't say is that the deficit is fine. I was wondering other things that there's such a shout because we want to cut taxes and leave people more money, and no one cares that your governments are giving 500 billion here. deficit, 320 billion. A deficit, and that's okay? And the 90 we're gonna let people have is such a big problem? No, it's not! We can handle it. Not you. Second thing. You've been talking about how we're gonna cut back on education, and I don't know what it's all about. After all, we are the ones who repeatedly tell your government, invest more in education, invest more in research, invest more in infrastructure, and you don't. You don't invest enough. And you are the ones who present deficit budgets at a time of economic growth. And every year, we show where to save money. Didn't you notice? You should have noticed that, Minister! And one final point. You argue that we want to release an official, and what a disaster it is. Madam Secretary of your coalition government brought it up. The Prime Minister supported it, and your chairman said ten percent is power, five percent we can do. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Time!]] You didn't do anything. [[Time!]] But you wanted it yourself, so don't fuck with me! [[Time!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u19	Mr Radek Holomčík, Mr. Radek Stanjura, and Mrs. Kateřina Valachová is also there. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u20	Thank you for the floor. I can keep going. If the Minister of Culture, and this is a rhetorical question, knows how much the State's revenue increased between 2014 and 2019. Four hundred and twenty billion. 420 billion!, which is about 40 percent - roughly, gross. Minister, come here and say very seriously if you think 40 percent of the service of the state has improved. Then it would have some logic. When you ask citizens, entrepreneurs, directors, you find that they don't feel that 40 percent of the service of the state has improved. And the taxes. You don't want doctors to have higher incomes? You don't want teachers to have higher incomes? You don't want firemen to have higher incomes? You don't want the cops? You're still arguing five billionaires. And it doesn't have anything to do with them! I'm talking about those who are taking 45, 50, 55, 60,000 these days, with the state budget revenue on it. Oh, middle class. So come and say, we don't want nurses to have a higher income of 2,000. A month, we don't want doctors to have 4,000. We do not want firefighters - we prefer to add 3 per cent gross and sell it, which makes 300 or 400 crowns! Why would we give them thousands if we'd rather take them away and then pay them back 10 percent? Don't talk about billionaires! Talk about middle class! Talk about middle class! Talk about teachers, doctors, managers, qualified employees, small businessmen! These are the Czech economy and the Czech Republic! And don't scare billionaires all the time. You still live in the 19th century. There's no such company at all! We here defend the interests of those who define themselves as middle class. And you don't want to increase middle-class income. Mostly by taking it away from them, and then graciously through some grant title, you send something back or you raise a table. And we say, we leave you the money and you decide what to do with it! And it's a much better approach, and I just believe it! Not you! And don't tell us it's some kind of zombie. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Time!]] That's healthy, economic, and people appreciate it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u21	Mr Radek Holomčík will be next, Kateřina Valachová and Vice-President of the House Petr Fiala will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u22	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to ask the Minister of Culture not to rub his nose in Brno. Firstly, there is a coalition in Brno where social democrats are also represented. The financial situation in Brno, which leads to the request or debate that the National Theatre of Brno, as well as the National Theatre of Ostrava, would be transferred to the Ministry of Culture, is long-term. This is no invention of Mrs. Mayor Vaňková; this has been discussed since she was the mayor of the esteemed colleague Onderka, and perhaps before that. Just to give you an idea. Brno from budget 16 billion. Kroner puts 1.6 on culture. I don't know about any other city in Europe that would give such a big grant to culture. I think the Minister of Culture should pamper such cities, not rub them in here. And the situation for next year. 16 billion. Brno will lose 2.7 billion if the tax package approved here is passed, in the form it was approved in the House. And if we're talking about the efforts to transfer the National Theatre to the Ministry of Culture, it's all about ensuring the future of this top-notch scene, which has super-regional, national significance. So please don't drag Brno into your ideological wars with the ODS! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u23	Now, Mrs Kateřina Valachová will speak and Vice-President Petr Fiala will be prepared and Prime Minister Zaorálek will report with priority rights. Please, you have the floor. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u24	Thank you. Petr Fiala is a former Minister of Education as well as I am, so, without a doubt, and I have no doubt for a second, he knows in which years there has not been enough money in kindergarten, elementary, secondary and university schools, in which years and when these budgets have been cut off and how difficult it is, regardless of the fact that from 2016, from 2016, every year means a record budget for education. I'm not saying enough. I'm not saying it's enough, it's record-breaking. So that's the first point. And the second point to Zbyňka Stanjur by your means, Mr President. He's still stuck here in the 19th century. I don't know, he probably likes it a century, wants to live in it, I don't know why he keeps saying that. In the tax package dispute, the mix of taxes and the budget, it is simply that the proposal that the Civil Democratic Party is promoting means a simple thing. On the one hand, he's gonna put 15 hundred in a man's pocket, but within three months, and I'm not saying it's me, that's what Rusnok's head of central bank says, there's going to be a mortgage auction, so it's going to be minus two or three thousand. And by the middle of the year, we're going to have inflation and we're going to have to increase basic food, and it's going to be another 2,000 minus. So Zbyněk Stanjura by your means, I appreciate that on him, he can count well, so please stop remembering the 19th century and count and tell people how much they're gonna lose these changes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u25	[[Minister Zaoralek is about to perform.]] No, no, Minister. Excuse me, did you apply to the facts, Mr. Secretary, or with priority? [[In fact.]] So now Petr Fiala followed by Minister Lubomír Zaorálek and then Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u26	In my first point of fact, I responded to the Minister's leaders more general and now to Brno. I thank my colleague Holomčík that he has explained some things, but I must remind the Minister of Culture that we have here also institutions of national importance with a huge cultural overlap of that particular city, and the financing system has been set up long-term so that it lies on the shoulders of those cities. But it's not easy, and it's unmanageable in the long run. And I'm asking you and your coalition partners why you haven't done anything about it since you've been managing your department, your resort now. I mean, there are a lot of good designs and models to solve this. For example, when you look at the surrounding countries, such institutions as the National Theatre in Brno or the Philharmonic in Brno are often funded by the fact that a third pays the city, a third pays the country or the region, a third pays the state. There are a lot of options to set this up. You didn't do anything, you leave it to those cities. It's not just Brno's problem, it's Ostrava's problem. And it just can't be done in the long run. And the demand that they turned to you with, or the state, Brno and Ostrava, to take over the funding of institutions that, for example, bear the word national in the title, the request seems perfectly logical to me. [[15.40 hours]] Don't worry about it getting out of the hands of the Brňan, and it's gonna get worse. Well, of course it won't get any worse, he'll just take responsibility for it, the funding, the state. There are other models, but you haven't prepared any, you leave it to those cities, and you can't manage it in the long run. And this isn't about Brno, it's about Ostrava, it's about Czech culture. You should be taking care of her funding, not using it here for an ideological war with the Civil Democratic Party. It's not serious.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u27	So now Minister Zaorálek will take two minutes to make a point of fact, the chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura and Roman Onderka for ČSSD are ready. So please, Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u28	Yes, I just want to say that I don't care about two cities, because regional culture is almost one of the main things that interests me, because in those regions, culture can start to fade faster. This is why I find it wrong to choose one or two cities, and I find the whole idea that suddenly the National Theatre in Brno would be paid from Prague, means that the entire proceedings would pass under Prague. This means that management, directors, funding, files in Prague would really be decided, just as you would probably imagine in Ostrava. But I see a clear logic in that sometime 25 years ago, or when it was, it was a matter of competence, and that's when those cities said that these are their theaters, they want to manage them, and they want to decide what files they're going to have, what the CEOs will have there. That was totally legitimate back then. And it seems wrong to me that today, when a rather difficult time comes, the first time you throw overboard in Brno, the first time you've decided to get rid of it, you're gonna say -- let it take the state, let it finance the state. It is clear that if this were to change, this would mean a change in the budgetary determination of taxes. It is not possible to think that it will simply be paid from Prague and you will continue to manage it in Brno. That's completely illogical. And I, above all, do not agree, in this way, to centralize the state. After all, the solution isn't that it's all going to be managed like this from Prague. The deal must look completely different, and it can't be one or two theaters. The aid to the regions must somehow be systemic, and not talk about one, two theaters that get rid of their financial claims. And as far as I'm concerned, because I'm running out of time, it's only a short time. As fair as your tax package is, it is best to see that a person who has an income of over 100 grand a month will have an extra 60 grand per year. [[Time warning]] You're just not gonna justify this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u29	You can apply again of course. So the chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura will perform, then Roman Onderka and Vlastimil Válek are ready. So please, Mr. Chairman, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u30	Such small numbers for the Minister of Culture. The one who takes 100 grand will pay five times more for social and health than the one who takes 20 grand. And you don't mind, you forget that they pay five times more social and health, where the net equal tax is up to 48 times the average wage. That's what you forget about the debates. About the systemic debate, I actually agree with you. I'm proud of Opavan, we have the Silesian Museum. Who's driving it? Who's driving it? In your diction Prague. But to me, the state isn't Prague. Prague is the seat of central authorities. This is not a decision from Prague. By the way, the Minister of Culture is from Ostrava and is from Prague. And how systemically you are able to work, Minister, we see Mr Onderka's amendment, which I support. 1808 billion. expenditure in the draft budget and you 300 million. for regional theatres, which Mr Onderka rightly proposes, you are unable to implement into the government's draft budget. And this is where you tell us we're throwing culture overboard? Why didn't you enforce it? Why must your fellow Member Onderka, who is right, correct this in the House, and is it for all the regional theatres? Explain that to me. 1808 billion. expenditure, 10 % 180 billion, 1 % 18 billion, 1 promil 1.8 billion. and 300 million, which is one-sixth of a mile, must be read by your fellow Member that you are unable to push it into the budget as Minister of Culture. And as for the brief response to honored colleague Kateřina Valachová. My colleague, see what inflation is like this year, and in a year's time, we can figure out what next year will be like. And by lower taxes, it certainly won't have any major impact on the inflation, and certainly not on the mortgages. I'm sure you didn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u31	Mr Roman Onderka will now appear and Mr Vlastimil Válek will prepare himself. So, please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, let's put the ball down. We're in the second reading of the state budget. I will ask the Minister of Culture and the President of the ODS of Mr Stanjura to listen to me, because both of them, including Petr Fiala, President of the ODS... Colleagues! Colleagues! Lubos! Very good, thank you. I will now speak to you through the President and I would like you to hear me. Each of you is telling a little bit of truth, and each of you is saying a bit of untruth. First of all, when did it happen, my colleague - now I speak to Petr Fial - when did the statutory city lose the funds it could use for the culture? Well, in your government, when Mr Kalousek changed his budget tax determination and the city of Brno lost 500 million, that is, by half a billion, the National Theatre in Brno at that time cost 500 million. from the budget of the statutory city of Brno. [[Did he say 500 billion?]] A colleague of the Zaorálek. When did the town of Brno get the National Theatre in Brno? When the county was jammed. It wasn't a decision. And within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes on these institutions, I am not saying that they have received funds fairly, less or more than other cities. So the justice of injustice has been here since de facto the districts in the Czech Republic were disrupted to the period of individual governments. And the governments and the citizens' democratic parties, as well as social democracies, are to blame. If Petr Fiala is talking about a bill that would allow multi-source financing, as is for example. In Germany... [[Time!]] I'll sign up for the next sequel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u33	So I will now ask Mr Vlastimil Válek to speak, and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will prepare herself, and then the Minister will. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u34	Leaving is a terrible thing. I was worried because I'm twice as old as our chairman and I was worried that Minister Zaorálek would call me a zombie. Anyway, I'm taking risks. I'd like to say that maybe the crucial thing that's fallen here is the word regional. University hospitals are also regional, and yet they are funded and managed by the Ministry of Health and I don't think any university hospital feels like someone is ordering her from Prague. So I was here once intersecting the Prime Minister, and I have to say back to him, although he is not here, thanking what he said at the time: yes, we will seriously address the fact that we define - it is a few ministers of culture back - that we really define which cultural establishments in the Czech Republic have super-regional, national significance, and that we really should transfer to the Ministry of Culture and should be directly funded from the Ministry of Culture, as is the National Theatre Prague. And yes, I believe that the National Theatre Brno, the Brno Theatre, is not regional, but it is national, above-regional, and should be part of this line of art institutions. It is beyond my ability to define which institutions they are, but just as university hospitals are managed and funded by the Ministry of Health, or co-financed, it deserves the booths of our culture, which we are proud of not only in the region, but throughout the state, throughout Europe and perhaps around the world. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u35	So now, Mrs Kateřina Valachová will speak, Mr Lubomír Zaorálek will prepare himself. After the Minister, Mr Roman Onderka. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u36	I will respond through the President to our debate with Zbyněk Stanjura. Well, the fact that what the Civil Democratic Party is promoting in terms of tax changes will mean that I get something in one pocket, and I get twice or three times as much from the other, so I'm really not getting anything at all. Unfortunately, I do not think that it would be my unique personal opinion, not even the Czech Social Democratic Party, that it would be any ideology or political position, but that is what professional institutions such as the National Budget Board, CEVRO, central bank say, which, true, you will probably all confirm, including Zbyněk Stanjura, through the President, that there is really no cryptsocialists. That's just what I'm worried about, and I think people should be told the truth and not just paint things pink, that they'll be added when they're chosen elsewhere. [[15.50 hours]] Now the donkey bridge. It worked exactly like this for at least ten years, present teachers and school directors will confirm it when, like, the state was sending money to teachers' pockets, but because the total volume was not sufficient and there were no guarantees until we pushed through regional education funding reform, that what we send from above and we fight out here in the budget, also in those pockets teachers and schools, and after all, our children in the quality of education will get and they will get that it will simply flow to them, so until then it worked exactly the same way. We pretended to add some of that percentage, but in fact, the next year, we found out at the state's closing account that no one had gotten anything and didn't join. And while we removed this from the reform of regional education funding, which I pushed through and which we maintained - and it was one of the reasons for me to continue the government with the ANO movement, and I thank you for keeping the reform of regional education funding - well, now, of course, in terms of new taxes and the new tax mix, I am totally appalled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u37	Minister Lubomír Zaorálek will now appear and Mr Roman Onderka will prepare himself. Please, Minister, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u38	I just want, and I hope, in conclusion, to say only to my colleague Stanjura's address that she was below his argument that something failed to push into the culture budget, and now it's like the House has to fix it. Because, of course, when we were drawing up a budget and discussing it in the government, we couldn't predict the arrival of the second, third wave, we couldn't predict what would happen in two, three months. And of course we agreed in the government that when it came, we'd deal with it. That means, to blame now that we weren't psychics, we didn't know how the year 2020 was going to turn out, 21, it's unfair to me. And I think it's an argument that doesn't belong here. There was an agreement in the government that, according to the development of the situation, just as it was in 2020, we would look into this and try to find a solution. And it's not something that's forgotten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u39	Mr Roman Onderka will now appear, Mr Miroslav Kalousek will be prepared. We're still in factual notes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'll just fill in. For the first time today, if the tax package goes through, the statutory city of Brno won't even have enough for operating expenses. It will jamm an axe of between CZK 1 and 1.3 billion. It's just a disaster. He will have to borrow 3 billion to invest in the next five years. I do not know how one of these cities and other cities in the Czech Republic will cope with this. But you have to say, if you stand, government, by the way The Chamber of Deputies will make some decisions that rob the municipalities of the Czech Republic of these funds, so they must bear part of the responsibility. And he said so here through the President, Mr Válek. If then the cities, in this case Brno, Ostrava, ask the state to take responsibility and become the founder of national theatres, it is simply a step that I think is logical. And as Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk said when he approached the citizens of this country, Čech, Moravan and Slezan, so I say, the Czech National Theatre, South Moravian National Theatre and then Ostrava National Theatre are cultural institutions that not only create values that are priceless by nature, and the State should assume responsibility if those cities simply do not have the means to do so. And she can't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u41	I will now recapitulate the factual remarks to guide Members. So now Mr. Miroslav Kalousek will appear, Mr. Václav Klaus, President of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka and then Mrs. Finance Minister Alena Schillerová. Well, Prime Minister Kalousek, you have the floor. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just a brief response to what fell from Mr Onderka and Minister Zaorálek's mouth. Mr Onderka told me of the past, when Brno lost CZK half a billion on the basis of my passed and submitted law in the budgetary determination of taxes. It's true. Prague by CZK 1.2 billion, Olomouc by CZK 250 million. And the money wasn't lost, the money was given to other cities and communities. Until then, the Act on the budgetary determination of taxes has eliminated unprecedented and unprecedented discrimination in Europe, where the ratio between money per capita exceeded up to six times. We're three times today. And in those regions, it's obvious. Those villages and cities bloomed because of it. With all due respect to the importance of large cities, I believe that the four cities with special coefficients - Prague, Brno, Ostrava and Plzeň - even after a little bit of surrender to their smaller colleagues, they are still very good at it thanks to their special coefficients. First of all. Second, to Minister Zaorálek. Yes, we were. We were struck by a situation where interest on government bonds was 5,7 % and a debt spiral threatened acutely. During the year, we hit below 3% and stabilized the situation. It hurt. If we didn't act like that, you're on a debt brake today, and you don't have the slightest room for your deficits.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u43	I will now request the speech of Mr Václav Klaus and prepare Mr Marian Jurečka. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u44	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I didn't want to perform, but when this discussion took an hour and a half, I'd say a few words. Minister, by your means, you're talking about zombies and dinosaurs. When I listened to you, the only dinosaur you had was your performance. All you needed was a capitalist with a top hat, a poem by Petr Bezruč and "Worker, your weapon is hate!". But this time is over. I lived in a housing estate for 30 years when I was a kid. All my classmates were working class, there was a Red Letov, Avie, ČKD, but now it just looks different. That's point number one. Two. We're not talking about five billionaire tax savings that aren't gonna do anything, because they're already optimizing with the help of their lawyers. We are talking about employees, teachers, doctors and others because we want people to have money, not government. You want the opposite. OK. Third thing. Your claim that it's nonsense that lower taxes are moving the economy is simply not true. As a mathematician, I'm gonna argue with you. High taxes are strangling the economy, that's for sure. So when we speak backwards, those words of yours don't have any true value. And to say something nice, too. You reminded me of my stepdad, who didn't really understand the principle of phone calls, so when he called at a distance, he always yelled a lot into the headphone. So you, too, have spoken with such a powerful voice here. But it really had nothing to do with the nature of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u45	Otherwise, I will add to your speech that you can address ministers directly, and Members address themselves through the President. So when someone is a minister, you can address him directly, but the Minister addresses the Member through the President. The Member, President of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka, will speak, and Minister Alena Schillerová will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u46	Thank you. The debate here was interesting, but I don't think there's much of a material solution going on. If it comes down to the fact that Minister Zaorálek might have said well, I am prepared with representatives of those key cities and regional representatives, i.e. the commanders, to discuss making the model a third. There will be identified key institutions of culture in those regions, especially in regional cities, so that the theatres - for example, in Olomouc we have a three-file theatre. It is a huge burden for the city of Olomouc to be able to tighten the theatre and the Philharmonic until next year. It's a huge bat. Then the city doesn't have any investment in an area where it needs to be. So if there was at least a hint of a chance of a negotiation here that would really lead to the goal of sharing one third of this with these identified institutions, one third of it, one third of it, one third of it by the regional city - because it concerns mainly regional cities - I would take that as some sort of shift. So I don't know, maybe the minister, even though he's been in the last year of government, might want to open this up. It's a shame it didn't work out in the last coalition government, I admit it could have opened up there and it could have been settled. But we all feel that the situation is not sustainable in the future. It doesn't benefit anyone, not the cities, not the institutions, because sometimes it's living from year to year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u47	Now, on the point of fact, Minister Alena Schillerová. Minister, are you interested too? Then after the Minister, Minister Zaorálek. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u48	Thank you for the floor. I'd like that up-to-date information, it has nothing to do with the budget, indirectly. Today, the Senate Economic Committee met as a guarantee committee. He was discussing the tax package. He approved several amendments. First of all, I would like to say that he supported the income tax rate of 15 and 23 %. He did not support a discount of 34 120, which corresponds to the increase in the average wage, as proposed by this Chamber of Deputies, but supported a discount of 27 840. And other essential information, supported the change in the budgetary determination of taxes, which should bring about 12 billion to the municipalities next year. and regions roughly 6.6 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u49	Thank you for this point of fact. I ask Minister Zaorálek to make a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u50	Perhaps comforting words I could send to Mr Jurečka, because I would like to tell him that the debate he said could take place is scheduled next week. For next week I was invited to the relevant committee in the Senate, and the debate he called for will take place there over the situation of the theatres and how this development could be treated in the future, with the fact that I am concerned that it should not concern one theatre, but simply to be systemic about the situation of theatres in the Czech Republic. So I can promise him the debate, and it would have been done without today's debate. All I'm saying is that it's impossible to reduce it to the fate of one city. Otherwise, I would say to Mr Václav Klaus, when he said here that it is clear, high taxes are destroying the economy or suffocating the economy. The problem in the Czech Republic is that those who have high incomes do not have very high taxes in the Czech Republic. On the contrary, those who are in the low-income or medium-income ones are, on the contrary, disproportionately involved in the financing of the state thanks to the labor contributions. That means, just this complex approach to taxes is the answer, not the simple ones. And so is the simple theory that you are simply cutting taxes to deal with growth. That's just not true. It's not true in this simple form.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u51	Thank you. Mr Klaus will also respond to the factual remark. I haven't said hello yet. I'm sorry. Good afternoon, everyone. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u52	A sign of intelligence is difficult to simplify. That's a pretty normal approach. As for what you said, Minister, the contributions are, of course, taxes. It's just a marketing name - social, health, paid by an employer, an employee. But it's not citizens' money, it's state money, it's going in another drawer, it's not going right through the secretary, but it's also taxes at the heart, so we're relatively in agreement. I agree with you that the tax burden on both the work and the poorer citizens is too high. I guess we agree on that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u53	Thank you. We will continue with the detailed debate, so Mr Feri is now on the list, Mr Klaus will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u54	Mr Vice-President, I'm afraid to say anything so that I don't start another hour and a half of the debate, so I'll take this very briefly. I am applying to my amendments, which you will find in the system as House documents No. 6800 to 6814. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u55	Mr. Ambassador, these proposals should be justified.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u56	They're well-founded in the materials.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u57	Okay, so the justification is in the materials, that should be enough. Now, Mr Klaus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u58	Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. I will briefly justify our proposals. Socialists of all colors have grown so huge in recent years and have eaten from the inside that it is hyperobese and polymorbid. He got covided into it. The collapse of state finances, the threat to deposits, the threat to the banking sector, the destruction of the middle class and the associated political implications are imminent. The first reading of the state budget took place, where we lost as trikolóra, because we proposed a significant reduction in the state's spending in this difficult situation. However, we do not give up this kind of struggle for the future of the Czech Republic, which is why we are trying to move 72 billion at this second reading today. Kroner, two of my colleagues will still be talking to the State Debt Service chapter. The state must slim down and concentrate on its priority issues - security, education, especially fundamentals, etc. Of course, there will be great screams when some money is touched by what it causes. Therefore, I will now speak to you as a person who has worked in education for 27 years and knows something about it. If we look at the structure of this chapter for example, we have 8 billion. At least inclusion, we have a reform of education funding, which, more or less, sanitizes half-empty regions of the established school, it's its leitmotiv, it's tens of billions, it has to wake up to the Minister's hair with terror on her head from this law, and we also have a lot of money that drains on the basis of the famous law on teaching workers, about which part of the government surrounds here and part of the opposition in order not to discuss it, because a lot of directors, my former colleagues, commute to some trainings to study school management and such nonsenses, and that, of course, costs a lot of money, those faculty of pedagogys are preventing it, but that's just money. So right here, if we're in education, we have 20-30 billion. The crowns we're more or less drowning. I'm pretty sure it's exactly the same across all the other resorts. The situation is serious, and we just have to slim the state down. We have to ask ourselves: Do we need the senát to do something here to come here once a month on Tuesday for a while, and then we turn it down and pace it down? Do we need the regions themselves, with our huge bureaucracy? Isn't 100 Members enough? Do we need political nonprofits, not just those who run migration here, as has been said here today? We are now in such a condition that we have to have 28 social benefits like the Czech Republic, wouldn't three very transparent, simple, really supporting poor people be alone and their home? If we're still supporting poor people, that's very right, but I'm afraid for a number of social benefits, the money is immediately draining to poor traders and various loan sharks. We're not kidding ourselves, so we're not doing such a good thing. Of course, we support rich people, all the building savings and all that stuff. It ends abroad with big banks, and it's a way of saving for some reason subsidised by us, taxpayers, for some of our fellow citizens. So there's a huge amount of money to cut off in the state budget. There's no other solution to what we can do. Of course, the government is afraid of that, virtually. He can't because of the coalition agreements, I understand, so I'm not attacking the secretary here. However, we bring these proposals because we think that this is the only way. State slimmed, slim state, rich citizen, and really stopped the hyperobesity of the state. Mr Stanjura spoke of this, how many hundreds of billions of the budget revenue has increased. Indeed, it is better for people to have money and the state to focus on basic functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u59	Thank you. Mrs Valachová will now respond with a factual point, and then I have the priority right of Mr Černohorský and Mr Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u60	Really, really. Regional secondary schools are not currently half-empty, as it was in the last decade, for example, because demography and numbers of pupils and students, which have increased significantly since 2017, after the previous thin decade, do not make this possible, so that is the first remark. Second point. Even primary schools are not half-empty, because - and we are all happy, no doubt my previous speaker - my children are full because there are currently strong demographics in primary schools, and because the reform of regional education funding has introduced a simple rule, and I think that it is honest, namely that what is taught and towards children is to be paid similarly in all regions, not in different ways, so that the differences then arise and have different conditions not only for children, but also for our directors and teachers for children's education, so logically it costs money. And I think that's a good thing. [[16.10 hours]] And then just a note. I don't want to open up a big debate here, but I just want to say that, as far as investments are concerned, which are marked for inclusive education in the budget, that below is what I believe no one is questioning. Not even my previous speaker, I believe. They are teaching assistants, special educators and school psychologists, who were in that system not only before 2016 or 2015, but even since 2005, who have not been honestly funded for the whole decade, and then many directors had to deal with it so that money for these people who were needed so they took it out of the pockets or the salaries of teachers. And we're done with that, it costs money. But I think investment in education is the right investment, and it's the right investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u61	Thank you. With Mrs GajdůGajdůšková's point of fact, Mr Klaus is then reporting. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u62	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, of course, what we have heard again about the slim state, the small state, we have heard in the right-wing governments. And how did that turn out? Prime Minister Topolánek, Prime Minister Nečas, the ODS leadership, the state didn't really work. And I'll be happy to remind you of this thesis when there are proposals for all the support for businesses, entrepreneurs, when there's a debate about how the state doesn't work and how it should help. Covid, I think, has made it clear that you need to hold the balance. That it is necessary to have what is private and what is public. Because only when this is in equilibrium does things really work. I would warn against going back to that slim state we had in right-wing governments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u63	Thank you. Mr Klaus is now present with a point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u64	I am still in the heat of my rhetorical efforts to forget to sign up for this amendment formally, which I handed over to the rapporteur. So this is what I'm doing now, I'm going to give her the number.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u65	Well, I hope it's as formal as that. And now, with priority rights for the Pirates Club, its Vice-President, Mr Černohorský, then Mr Jurečka, also with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for Amendment 7006 by my colleague, Dana Balcarová. The justification is part of this proposal recorded in the system. The second amendment to which I would like to sign up is the amendment recorded under number 6942. It is a proposal by my colleague Kozlová concerning the development of a material-technical base for regional cultural facilities. Total financial allocation in the expenditure block Supporting the development of the material and technical base of regional cultural facilities decreased by less than 7 million overall compared to 2020. Crowns. However, significant shifts have occurred within individual indicators. For example, the programme Supporting the reproduction of the assets of regional cultural facilities, churches and religious societies is humiliated by 260 million compared to 2020. to just 70. Finances are mainly transferred to the Cultural Infrastructure Project co-financing programme. Projects such as projects will be co-financed from there. construction of a new building of the West Bohemian Gallery in Pilsen. Of course, we have nothing against the financing of such actions, but we consider it extremely inappropriate for the funds to be transferred to these actions from a programme designed to reproduce the assets of smaller regional institutions, which are already suffering from a considerable financial shortage. Support for the development and modernisation of the equipment of smaller institutions is considered essential for the continuous improvement of their services to citizens. Therefore, there is a proposal to increase this programme by 50 million. Crowns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u67	Well, thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u68	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, I confess, I was wondering whether this draft state budget is even in a situation where we know that the legislative process is also under way here, a tax package that has huge implications for the entire state budget, and it is evident that it will have to be updated next year, if there is any amendment in this situation at all. But, of course, at least because these proposals, which are mostly not accepted from among the opposition from 99 percent, are removed from the table, so I think that it is necessary to at least try to point out some of the problems where funds need to be directed, and to point out some of the priorities that, from our point of view - and now I speak for KDU-ČSL - are undersupported. I am particularly close to the environment, agriculture. And I must say that the agricultural committee, too, has long given a recommendation resolution in order to strengthen the area of investment that is currently linked to water retention in the countryside, is actually linked to adaptation to climate change. These resolutions are sometimes carried out more, sometimes less. And actually, now that we had budget chapter 319 of the Ministry of Agriculture on the Committee on Agriculture, there was again an accompanying resolution, which calls on the Government to strengthen the financing of this part of the Ministry of Agriculture's ministry's activities in the course of the next year. That is why I have therefore decided to submit a specific amendment, which is under number 7014, which I am reporting to, which is currently strengthening the financing of land-use adjustments, i.e. those which deal directly with better water retention in the landscape, better water management, prevention of floods, biotopes, drawbacks, small ponds, small retention tanks and wetlands, and at the same time make land available for their owners, so that we can increase this activity by 1 billion. Crowns. So that's what I'm applying for. And I will be happy if you and some of you have also considered supporting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u69	Thank you. And with priority rights for the club YES, Mrs Pastuchová has signed up for me. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u70	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which I submit together with six other colleagues. Why do I say that? We are being tabled by this amendment by seven Members for the seven areas of mountain service that we have in our Republic. And I'm putting the amendment under number 7004, where I propose an increase in the budget in the area of mountain service financing, by a total of 100 million. 490 thousand. The reason why we are submitting this amendment together with our colleagues is that Czech mountains, as you know, are and will be, in fact, due to the coronavirus crisis that is now accompanying us, I think more and more visited by tourists. This, of course, also increases the number of injuries that the mountain service needs to treat. Surely we all know that mountain service is an irreplaceable component of an integrated rescue system. I'm a paramedic working with them. And on those mountains where we sometimes reach as others, the mountain service is sometimes really the first and is a great helper. Therefore, the mountain service needs a flawless, new or not obsolete technique for its summer and winter work, and it is precisely the increase of this amount that we propose with colleagues that should be intended to restore obsolete vehicles such as snowmobiles, quads, multipurpose vehicles, but also to restore their mountain service stations, or to buy land for the construction of new stations, so that our mountains are covered everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u71	Thank you. I will ask you, or other Members, who will exercise their right of priority and will no longer speak in the debate to withdraw their application if necessary. And Mr Mašek is reporting with a factual remark now in response. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to support Mrs Pastuchová's proposal here, and I would like to say here why the mountain service really needs more material support. It is because the mountain service is used by a medical rescue system, which is legally obliged to intervene on the site of the event within 20 minutes. That's not possible in mountain areas. And in this rescue system, we rely on the mountain service that allows us to fulfill this term. So we train these mountain servants, they're extremely well-equipped, basically as medical rescue crews, and they're able to provide pre-hospital care on site at the level of the crews of the rapid medical assistance. In case they have a doctor, so on the level of rapid medical assistance. So it's just a support argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u73	Thank you and we will now get to the current debate, so please, Mrs Hyťhová. At this point, she can, so please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u74	Hello, thank you for your word. I would like to comment on my amendment to which I will apply, it is a proposal with number 6961. Furthermore, I would like to apply to the amendment of my fellow Member, Mr Václav Klaus, Jr., with the number 6987, that is to say this House document, which he introduced here a moment ago. Before I present the specific points in my amendment, I would like to clarify why I am proposing these things at this point. The Czech Republic is, as we all know, in a difficult and unprecedented crisis, which will unfortunately continue next year. In its view, the state must respond to it in such a way as to reduce the expenditure needed and to leave as much money as possible to our taxpayers. trikolóra also defends the view that to be a wealthy citizen, the state must be slim and effective. Previous governments have also allowed the state to grow to huge proportions and regulate almost every area of human life. It is time to turn this around, so turn the helm back and return to the values on which this country has become rich. This is what my amendment is about. And now specifically. My specific amendment concerns the reduction of chapter 312 of the Ministry of Finance, in the indicator of expenditure on the security of the tasks of the Financial Administration, by one billion crowns. Also the reduction of chapter 322 of the Ministry of Industry and Trade in the indicator of support of entrepreneurship by a total of CZK 3 billion. This will save us 4 billion crowns. Why? The first point reduces expenditure on Financial Administration. Currently, as we all know, the efficiency of the EET and the Accounts is suspended. Likewise, the economic activity of companies and businessmen is falling. Moreover, the Financial Administration has been known in recent years for its excesses and overuse of hedging examples - I'm sorry, yes, orders. Point 5 reduces subsidies that distort the market and provide an unfair competitive advantage for beneficiaries. In this situation, it will help entrepreneurs mostly to cancel the supergross wage, which will be compensated for, among other things. also by reducing subsidies and improving the competitive environment. Furthermore, I propose a reduction of Chapter 313, namely the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the indicator of non-investment non-payment transfers, by CZK 10 billion. In the indicator of active employment policy it is a total of CZK 500 million. This is a total of CZK 10,5 billion in this area. Why and for what reason? The item of non-investment non-payment transfers still accounted for around 11 billion in 2016. 26 is now proposed. Therefore, a significant correction of 10 billion is justified. Active employment policy consists of both good policies, these are community-friendly work and investment incentives for job creation, commuting subsidies, etc., which are necessary or directly harmful. A partial correction of CZK half a billion is therefore proposed. Furthermore, I propose a reduction in Chapter 314, namely the Ministry of the Interior in the indicator of expenditure on ensuring that the Ministry of the Interior and other organisational components of the state perform their tasks, by a total of CZK 2 billion. Furthermore, the reduction of chapter 327 in the Ministry of Transport in the indicator of other expenditure associated with transport policy, by a total of CZK 1.6 billion, i.e. we will save CZK 3.6 billion again in total. It should also be stressed that these savings are not aimed at transport infrastructure or security. Finally, I also propose a reduction in chapter 322 of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, in the indicator of the subsidy on renewable energy sources, by a total of CZK 6.5 billion. The level of this indicator is literally immoral in the current situation. The contribution of subsidies to the RES following the improvement of the environment is almost non-existent. Our taxpayers' money isn't supposed to end up in business subsidies. The total amount saved in this amendment of mine will therefore be CZK 24.6 billion. And this is what I propose to move to the chapter of the State debt to its service. Today, Tricolore will present proposals where 70 billion crowns will be saved. I think that these are good proposals and I think they are worth considering, and I believe that you will support these proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u75	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Brázdil will respond to this speech. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u76	Sorry, I don't want to keep you, we have a lot to do. But of course, I want to respond to that changeling who should bring money to the mountain service. They're extended by the hand of the rescue service, and it's great, I agree. But, you know, among the main components of the integrated rescue system are firemen, cops, and there's any one of you who can pass a changeling and shun them and want to support them. But you know who none of you can help at all? Here? It's the rescue service itself. Yes, I'm sorry, a colleague breaks hands. But now she's played such a big part and she's going to play. And life is always the first thing in the first place. But unfortunately, these 14 original rescue services are under the county, and we, as we sit here, even if we cut ourselves, can't basically help them. I'm sorry, colleagues, but if it doesn't change, it stays that way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u77	Thank you for your point of view. And now, Mr Holík, in a detailed debate. Mr. Ondráček will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u78	So, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a bag of reports recently broke that yellow plastic waste containers will have to be removed because we cannot process these waste. You're all going, "He's crazy! What's he talking about when we're discussing the state budget? So, folks, I'm not crazy, my senses are very good so far. And now I'm going to continue. Our citizens have learned to sort the waste, but as far as plastics are concerned, we can process one third of the collected amount. And those are PET bottles. The rest ends up in the dumps. We could partially burn these wastes, but since they need PVC, we can't put them in the incinerators. So, ladies and gentlemen, I again submit my last year's amendment, which is now under number 6955, and I ask for his support. I propose that from Chapter 322 of the Ministry of Industry and Trade from parts of the subsidy to renewable energy sources of 26.5 billion, 400 million should be transferred to Chapter 315 of the Ministry of the Environment, and that money should be used to set up sorting and recycling lines, ideally pyrolysis, because in pyrolysis we get to monomers. Ladies and gentlemen, this investment will be suitable for the preservation of nature, and it will certainly come back to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u79	Thank you. Now, Mr Ondráček, Mrs Aulická will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, both of you, colleagues and colleagues, I present to you with the introduction, I will try to be as brief as possible, two amendments, and since I am Vice-President of the Committee on Security and at the same time Chairman of the Sub-Committee on the Police of the Czech Republic and others, this will logically concern the police and security forces that fall within the Ministry of the Interior. So I would like to propose that in Chapter 314, the Ministry of the Interior increase the specific cost indicator of the Police of the Czech Republic by 200 million. The koruna and make it in 5 miles. She bought ammo. If you recall, last year we approved an amendment here, which I also tabled, and we made it possible for the police to buy ammunition for 90 miles. Kroner, and in order to get this done, and the police wouldn't have any problems, we'd still have five miles to go. Crowns. Armament area. Since there's a lot of shooting, and it's needed to train police officers, it's also necessary that the armor is either restored or repaired in some way, or kept in some kind of combatable or functional condition, that's where it would go 70 miles. Crowns. My favorite, for several years, has been presented and supported by you is the area of ballistic protection. Every year, I've proposed an increase in the resources that go for it, 30 miles. Crowns. Now we are approaching the end of the entire Ballistic Protection Project, and we would like to achieve that, or I believe that we will achieve that every police officer in service has ballistic protection of Ballistics Class III A, which means against short weapons, and we have protected the lives and health of our officers. We'd raise 50 miles here. CZK, and thus we would arrange for the rest of the Security Corps of the Police of the Czech Republic. The area of equipment components, it means uniforms, the better you use materials, so of course it's more expensive. Surely you who are interested in this area know that the police had problems, and not only the police, but also other security forces, with boots, winter jackets, with a lack of some equipment components, so here we would increase by 75 miles. Crowns. And the second specific indicator for the Fire Rescue Corps, the costs of the Fire Rescue Corps would increase by 100 miles. Crowns. Here I will say where this should go, and this is the technology of the Regional Operations Centres and Information Centres of the Fire Rescue Corps. My colleague Brázdil spoke of ambulances. Anyone who's been through a little military or without communication, without command, knows that there's no command, and it's already served here, and we need to keep information technology operational, because if you can't call for help, and now we're talking not only about firefighters, but also about an integrated rescue system, you just can't and we're endangering the lives and health of our fellow citizens. So 80 miles. CZK in agreement with my fellow firefighters on grant policy - support for voluntary firefighters, because this is perhaps the only component that still works very well here, so voluntary firefighters also need to be supported from the state budget, and we would set aside another 20 miles for grant policy. CZK for specific projects that would be declared under grant programmes through the Ministry of the Interior, if of course we approve it. So it's 300 miles together. CZK 200 to 100 to 200 police officers, as I mentioned, and 100 to the Fire Rescue Corps. And when we add somewhere, we have to cut back somewhere, in Chapter 398 of the General Treasury, in a specific indicator, other expenditure under the heading of EU funding expenditure, so 300 miles. from this item. Of course, all changes will be reflected in the relevant indicators and annexes in the Budget Act for next year. Allow me, in a nutshell, if you are more interested in this and want to read the explanatory note, it is House document 6953, where you will read in detail, as I have justified. I also refer to House document 6954, which is my second amendment, which would only be a transfer within the framework of Chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior, from the item of expenditure to ensure that the Ministry of the Interior and other organisational units of the State carry out their tasks, where we would collect 100 thousand. (?) CZK 222 non-investment transfers to non-profit and similar organisations. Here, if you were sitting here, I mentioned when discussing the prolongation of the emergency situation that, as the repeated rapporteur of Chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior in 2019, there was an item 522, which is the support of non-profits, 40 million. Crowns. In 2020, the Ministry of Interior proposed 70 million. CZK, but we are 20 million of this amendment. We took them and put them in ballistics last year and the things that they are. This year out of the 50 million that were there in 2020, there is 156.5 million. CZK, that means an increase of 101.5 miles. CZK without any substantial justification whatsoever. So from this file, 100 miles. CZK, which would go to Chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior, as I said, is merely a transfer of two specific indicators. The expenditure of the Police of the Czech Republic is increasing by 80 million. CZK 501, and now there is an exact breakdown of individual subgroups, because it is 80 million, which would go to so-called above-the-tarifs, because we expect that in connection with the covid pandemic, we have to pay the cops the extras to which they are entitled by law, and we would increase this item by 80 million. CZK, so that even in 2021 there would be enough money and we could pay the police for their overtime service or other things, 80 million. CZK in distribution between 40 thousand. Officers, you see we're talking about 2,000. A crown on one, which is a very ridiculous amount. And the remaining 20 miles. Kroner, because I'm chairman of the Security Sub-Committee, from 100 miles. would go in proportion to the size of the security corps essentially to the same thing for our firefighters, Fire Rescue Corps. So 80 miles. For cops, 20 miles. for firefighters. Within the framework of the chapter Move instead of nonprofits we pay overtime and extras to which our people on the front line are entitled. Thank you for supporting your amendments. As I mentioned, House documents No. No 6953 and No 6953 6954. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u81	Thank you. And now, Mrs Aulická, then I have Mr Ferjenčík's priority right with the opinion of the Pirate Party Club. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I won't be long either. I would like to introduce to you my amendment, which perhaps already traditionally concerns social services. And I have to say, as I was going over the amendments that were in the system, so I dare say, I did not immediately go through all that 1 billion. 200, where I am actually increasing this amount of the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to social services, is one of the highest, but in the system, it is de facto the least we can do to help providers or finance what they need. I would like to mention that I am actually quite unpleasantly surprised by the whole situation and approach of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, although this amendment was created in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, I admit that this is not a problem, in any case, when discussing the budget we learned that we are talking about the amount that is humiliated or the difference compared to the requirements of the regions, which is about 6 billion. [[16.40 hours]] Madam Secretary Maláčová was picking up the increase of 1.6 billion. to increase 10 percent or increase wages, which are counted and are already presented in that chapter. Anyway, because of this, we were threatened because the demands of the regions, which are now 25 billion, these 10 percent wage increases do not count and therefore do not take them into account. Moreover, by the fact that the Ministry of Labour, probably at the last minute, decided to raise the 10 percent, it would have to open up systems where the providers would still have to. the regions are going to make these requests and they're going to raise them. So I think we're having fun not being 25 billion, but almost 27 billion. requirements of regions respectively. The providers that are in the network are not talking about those that are, of course, off the network. So the scissors are expanding more and more, and I have to say that the amount that I'm presenting today, 1.2 billion, is probably the lowest that we can really help. We may see the biggest problem in coverage, as set out in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour, where we really need the funds to reform psychiatric care, year-on-year increase in inflation and the cost of increasing the social services network. We also see that many regions have, so-called conservation of networks and indeed increase the number of providers and services really to exceptions, or quite exceptionally. It's for that reason, because the demands for the increase, respectively. These financial subsidies grew rapidly and we are already talking about 2.5 billion in the Ústí Region. Every year, and every year, the underfinance that we don't get from the state budget is about 500 million. This means that the region must be involved, self-government must be involved, and of course other entities must be involved, and those providers are looking for funding where they can. I'm not saying this because I'm just accusing the state of not giving funding to 100% coverage of demands. Anyway, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has been promising us here for two years, at least two years, a big amendment to the Social Services Act, which it has not submitted until this time, and as we have the latest information and ongoing information from the regions, so de facto this law or the preparation is constantly changing, changing parameters, and until now we have not even in any final form received this big amendment in the Chamber of Deputies. The big amendment is about to address a rapid change in funding, but as we have basic information, it is precisely this change in funding that is the worst thing we could do to accept it in the form proposed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Everything for me and I will be happy if you support our amendment at third reading, which would really help those who need it the least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u83	Thank you. And now, therefore, with priority law, with the opinion of the Pirates MEP, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I have already said at the press conference that, from our point of view, the budget is practically incorrigible when the tax package runs parallel with it, which can make an axe for state finances up to 100 billion. Kroner, there really is a limited point in talking about hundreds of millions or units of billions. However, in order to show some way in which the government could go in these savings, we are proposing several amendments, at the same time pointing out where the government is not making money wrong from our point of view. We present an austerity package of approximately 8 billion. CZK, the resources are from rationalizing the fare discount system, some operating savings at the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Interior, in financial management. We think it is appropriate for the defense budget to grow a little slower, even though we disagree with the reduction of 10 billion, but we think that 2 billion. A slower increase would take the budget. And there are several other chapters where you can save money. So this is one big amendment that will save about 8 billion. Crowns. In addition, we also take into account our spending priorities. We propose an increase in the college budget so that the investment in education, which runs in the primary and secondary education sector, is repeated in higher education. We think that it is good that the government is adding this to primary and secondary school teachers, and we are glad that this has been corrected in this period, but we think that we should invest in higher education as well. We are proposing to strengthen the budget of the Academy of Sciences, which is another important matter. And such a little bit of budget, but it is of great symbolic importance - we propose to reduce the budget of the Office of the President of the Republic to consulting, advisory and legal services and instead to put the money in the fight against addiction. And I will also apply to the proposal by my colleague Richterová, who proposes to finance social services so that the announced increase in salaries is actually covered by the budget, so that the services that demand can be financed. All the amendments I apply to are also justified in writing. It is the number 7010 of my colleague Richterová and my proposals under 7015, 7017, 7029 and 7030. I'll make sure I haven't forgotten any... Thank you for supporting these proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u85	Thank you and now Mr Baxa, then Mrs Šafránková. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, let me put forward my three amendments to the draft state budget of the Czech Republic for 2021 and comment on them. So I would like to formally sign up for the House documents under the numbers 6992, 6991, which is the same in terms of content, but in those two cases each time from another source, and also to the amendment under the number 6993. And I would like to comment on these amendments. First, the two, which are under the numbers 6992 and 6991 and which relate to the area of living art. I would like to begin by saying that this subject, i.e. cultural services, the promotion of living art, are currently a subject of extreme urgency and very closely monitored. Of course, it has to do with the way in which the covid crisis hit the field of culture. And I want to direct my amendment to two specific spending headings in the Ministry of Culture's budget, and this is the State Support Programme for Professional Theatre and Professional Symphony Orchestras and Choirs and the cultural activity expenditure circuit. The theme of state aid for regional cultural institutions is a topic that has actually been addressed for many years. The program was created in 2003. From the very beginning he was accompanied by a debate about his amount respectively. on the fact that it has never been allocated sufficiently so that, in the context of cultural services which provide self-government in the Czech Republic, it has an amount which corresponds to the seriousness of the subject. [[16.50 hours]] The professional associations draw attention to this issue repeatedly, and I would mention, above all, the Association of Professional Theatre, but also the authorities themselves. By the way, this year they approached the municipalities in the Czech Republic through a letter from the President of the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, both the Minister of Culture of the Zaorálek and the President of the MPs, because the situation is already serious and it is currently facing a very real risk of the lack of funds to provide cultural services in their cities, and this applies, of course, to the regions. The context of this discussion is long-term based on the fact that the state is unable to solve multi-source financing, although it is still being discussed and still anchored in the state's strategic documents, such as the end of the state's cultural policy. There has not yet been enough hearing from the point of view of the state of what the authorities have been saying in the long term, that is, that many of their cultural institutions carry out public services which have a significantly superlocal or supraregional dimension, and that the House of Deputies has not yet managed to shift the law on public cultural institutions, much less to be dealt with in real terms, is undoubtedly the failure of state cultural policies and representatives of the Ministry of Culture in recent years. The worst situation was probably last year, when the former Minister of Culture Antonín Staněk actually reduced this program, literally sharpened it to almost dysfunctional form 130 million crowns. In the current proposal of the Ministry of Culture for 2021, there is CZK 400 million, which is a relatively high amount compared to what has been in this programme in recent years, but in the context of how in recent years there has been an increase in the salaries of employees of cultural institutions that have not been compensated, it has been a contribution organisation, and also in the context of how the revenues of these cultural institutions have fallen out of the covido crisis, the sum is certainly insufficient. I therefore propose that this programme of state aid for theatres and symphony orchestras should be increased by CZK 300 million to a total amount of CZK 700 million, a sum that could significantly help the authorities or the founders of these cultural institutions. And I want to emphasise once again that the link is not only linked to the covid crisis, but actually, it is as if the several-year decline in this programme is being made in relation to the increase in the costs of these institutions' operation to the founders. In this context, I would like to express my great thanks to my colleagues, the mayors, the captains, the mayors, for the long-term support of these institutions. I find it undignified how this debate sometimes goes on, how uneconomically funds are being treated in cities, because the spending on culture is really very high. Brno and my city, the city of Plzeň, have been mentioned here several times. For example, just a contribution to the operation of our four-file theatre costs CZK 250 million a year in the state contribution in the order of millions of crowns, so I think now is the time when the municipalities should be so strongly supported. I also propose that about CZK 85 million be increased by an expenditure circuit of cultural activities, where culture is supported through a number of subsidy programmes of the Ministry of Culture, which is provided as a service outside the established cultural institutions, in order to increase the total amount to CZK 750 million, and in these two amendments I am looking for two sources from which the funds of CZK 385 440 700 could be found. In this context, I would like to add that it is a great task for the Ministry of Culture not only to find funds to support cultural institutions, whether those established by self-governments or those operating outside self-governing bodies or outside the state founders, but it is also a great role for the Ministry of Culture to be very intensively pressured to continue the support of the culture affected by the Corona crisis in the state budget. After failure, after poor preparation of the COVID - Culture I programme, the COVID - Culture II programme was prepared in the Gesture of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which was already prepared in cooperation with cultural actors, however, the programme applies only to the current year and must undoubtedly be looking for money to create the COVID - Culture III programme, focused, for example, in another way, on active support of these cultural institutions. There must also be a hand in hand that the Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, must present with epidemiologists a sustainable and cultural actors discussed plan to restore the activities of cultural institutions. The current anti-epidemic system effectively maintains cultural institutions in a state of permanent hibernation, museums are opened only to a small extent, galleries are opened, and living art institutions remain closed so far, which means not only that they cannot provide services for which they are based, but also that their losses increase. I would also like to appeal, in this context, to think more about cultural institutions which do not have either public founders or do not fall within the box of the so-called 'public institution'. independent cultures. This is a promotion of entrepreneurship in culture, which concerns, for example: private theatres or private scenes of this type of art that concern the book market. Insufficient support also leads to great promoters in the field of music, i.e. those who do business for example. in organizing big concerts and festivals. We must also think about this issue, because this kind of culture is not only very desirable, but also represents, in addition to providing the service, the culture itself, it also provides a large number of jobs, it is employed for example. according to estimates by the Czech Music Community more than 130,000 people mostly linked to the form or form of the OSVČ. So these cultural actors, these service providers need help, they will need it in 2021 and surely not just the very proposals that I present here in the Ministry of Culture's budget, must also be thought of within the existing aid models, such as COVID - Culture II, and there must be other new ways to support the recovery of culture in the Czech Republic during 2021. I would call the second amendment a bit curious in my own way, because I here, as an opposition Member, suggest that the budget of the Ministry of Culture be strengthened in the field of contribution organisations directly established by the Ministry of Culture, or I am here to lecture the proposal that the Ministry of Culture be able to perform its functions directly towards its cultural institutions. I was, I must say, a little surprised when I read the explanatory report of this budget chapter in this part where, let me quote only a small part, directly writes: The proposed amount of the operating contribution is completely inadequate and does not correspond to the real situation in which the contribution organisations are located in 2020 and which will persist in 2021. This is the effect of the disease pandemic COVID-19, which leads to a reduction in attendance and a reduction in real income from activity. The proposal for a contribution to the operation - the state contribution organisations established by the Ministry of Finance - does not take into account the expected losses of the revenue of the contribution organisations, which will determine their management in 2021. Therefore, the establishment of a balanced budget for the contribution organisations was only possible provided that either the organisations did not include all costs or that their draft budget was based on the maximum limitation of operation and activity, i.e. that the organisations would remain fully or partially closed to visitors and would not offer any cultural programme in 2021. If an additional increase of CZK 450 million is not ensured in the next stages of the draft budget, or it is not released in the form of budgetary measures during 2021 as an additional increase in the expenditure of Chapter of the Ministry of Culture, there will be a situation at the latest during the second quarter of 2021 that part of the castles and locks will not be made available to the public, part of the museums and galleries will significantly limit the visiting time and reduce the number of days of the week after which they will be opened. Most museums and galleries completely cancel or dramatically limit the production of the exhibition program. The National Theatre will not be able to finance the creation of new performances and maintain the current range of the playing plan. As a result of reduced income from admission fees, it will also be forced to reduce the need for the work of its own and external employees, which is the most important type of cost in the theatre, as in other cultural institutions. And so on. [[17,00 hours]] This is very openly described in the Ministry of Culture's own document that the draft budget is insufficient, which is why I propose an increase of CZK 450 million in this chapter or this part of the Ministry of Culture's budget. The draft budget of the Ministry of Culture was also discussed by the Sub-Committee on Culture, which adopted unanimously in the presence of members of opposition and coalition resolutions, which calls for the Ministry of Culture's budget to be adjusted in order to change it. Minister Zaorálek said that the Minister has promised hundreds of millions of crowns for the Ministry of Culture's budget for next year, that it is already expected that the Ministry of Culture's budget will be strengthened, so I believe, Madam Secretary, that this will indeed be the case, but we are now discussing a document that is presented at the Chamber of Deputies meeting, where it is simply black in white that money is written to support cultural activities not only by the contribution organisations of the Ministry of Culture, but by culture as such is simply not enough. So I appeal that - and I would like to ask you to support my amendments, which do not total one billion crowns, but which can very much help culture in state cultural institutions, in cultural institutions that establish self-government, and above all, or also, to cultural institutions that function, or to cultural life that operates outside these founding frameworks. And I would also like to appeal once again to Minister Zaorálek, Minister of Finance, to the Government, to pay attention to cultural areas in 2021 not only within this budget, but to reflect that it is currently not possible to assume that in 2021 the financial situation in the field of culture will somehow improve significantly in itself and that this important area of life in the Czech Republic and in 2021 is needed. For all of us, for the employees, for the services that culture provides. Thank you for your attention and thank you for supporting my amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u87	Thank you. Mr Antonín Staněk will respond with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, who have the patience to sit here in the benches, please accept my deepest apologies for my entry, but I have already understood that in the case of Mr Baxa's speech, I must be vigilant, because Staněk is the greatest evil of Czech culture. I would just like to point out to the honourable Member that I have not cut any budget for regional culture. The problem with the Ministry of Culture in recent years is that budgets are being prepared by ministers who are either leaving or leaving and so on. On the contrary, I want to say that in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance, we are the budget, as it was first proposed, of course, in a reduced state, because it was saved everywhere, so we got it into a form that was acceptable to everyone. Of course, we'll never reach the absolute number we're approaching, which would have to be over 1.5 million (?) CZK to satisfy regional theatres. However, there is always an effort to discuss the budget in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance to increase it. So I would please reserve the right to have some attention from my colleague, so that obvious untruths are not told. [[Nesroz.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u89	Thank you. Mr Baxa will respond with a factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u90	Dear colleague through the Vice-President, I certainly did not say, and you have watched my performance in the gallows, you will certainly confirm it to me, that you would be the evil of Czech culture. I'm really retiring. I don't need to perform here personally. In my speech, I was merely quoting the figures that were, or which are available here in this document, in the draft budget of the Ministry of Culture for 2021, where in the budget that you prepared, that is, in the budget for 2020, a sum of CZK 130 million was proposed by you for the programme of regional cultural institutions. And that was the sum that was actually the lowest in years before, and you were preparing that budget at a time when the covid crisis did not exist. That means these massive budget cuts weren't made by the Ministry of Culture. It was then cross-cuttingly criticised, the low, or very low, record-low contribution to this programme, and only thanks to the pressure of the cultural community, the Chamber of Deputies, cultural actors during the year were two thousand... or the previous year managed to increase at least partially the amount that was there. So I want to say, I am not accusing you of being the evil of Czech culture, I do not need this, as you have quoted, but I am saying and I stand by this, that your prepared draft budget of the Ministry of Culture at that time meant the lowest contribution to the programme to support regional cultural institutions over the last few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u91	Mr Staněk will again respond with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u92	So I thank Mr Bax by your means that he has specified the matter, but I say yes again, the budget has been proposed in this way, I do not resist this, but in the debate - it was certainly no pressure, no storm, but in a factual, reasonable and rational debate with colleagues from regional theatres, we have come to the clear view that this is absolutely necessary to increase it. And I found and I was heard by the Ministry of Finance, the secretary, and that increase happened. So it was a completely natural procedural step, which you will also meet this year, in this year's budget, when a possible increase of items will be negotiated again. So from this point of view, it's a pretty logical process. And I'm glad we made it clear together so it doesn't come out the way it sounded in your simple shortcut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u93	Thank you. Minister Schillerová will also respond to the factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u94	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Just for a very short time. I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Culture's budget was reinforced by the various amendments by 1.37 billion for operation in 2020. Of course, it went into various problems that occurred in closed theatres, living art, etc., and one billion investments. This has been strengthened this year, this year in the framework of individual amendments to the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u95	Thank you. And we will move back to the detailed debate where Mrs Šafránková is registered, Mr Janda will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u96	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me also briefly to justify and sign up to my six amendments, which I propose under the SPD on the proposal for a State Budget Act. The first amendment is under House document number 6759 and I propose here to transfer CZK 5.5 billion from the expenditure indicator of the contribution to the budget of the European Union under the budget chapter General Treasury Administration to the budget chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs into the non-investment non-payment indicator. In particular, this appropriation is intended to strengthen the budget in the field of social services at regional and local level, in particular the salaries of social workers who have been doing good and hard work in the long term, especially in these difficult times. And, of course, the operation of facilities for seniors and citizens with disabilities. The second amendment is then led under the number of the House document 6760 and here I propose to transfer CZK 6.5 billion from the expenditure indicator of the subsidy to renewable energy sources under the budget chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade into the budget chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs into the pension insurance levy indicator to strengthen the volume of funds for all types of pensions of Czech citizens. [[17.10 hours]] The third amendment is then brought under number 6761. Here I propose to transfer CZK 500 million from the expenditure indicator to international organisations and money donations to selected institutions abroad under the budget chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs into the budget chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, namely to the care allowance indicator under the Social Services Act. It is a transfer of funds to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to financial donations abroad, for which there is no reason in the current situation of the economic crisis, towards strengthening the amount of funds for our citizens with disabilities who are dependent on the care and assistance of other persons. The fourth amendment is brought under House document number 6762 and I propose to transfer CZK 2.65 billion from the expenditure indicator of the subsidy for renewable energy sources under the budget chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade to the budget chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs into the indicator of other expenditure of the organisational components of the state, primarily on salaries and remuneration of workers in the labour and social affairs department. The fifth amendment is under House document number 6763 and I propose to transfer CZK 550 million from the expenditure indicator of the contribution to the budget of the European Union under the budget chapter General Treasury Administration to the budget chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to the non-investment non-payment indicator, primarily for the operation of special facilities and social services for vulnerable children and families. And the last amendment is under House document number 6983, where I propose to transfer CZK 5 million from the budget item of the external development cooperation of the expenditure indicator to other expenditure on the security of the ministry's tasks under the budget chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports to the budget chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs into the indicator of other expenditures of the organisational units of the state and non-investment non-payment transfers to assist contributory organisations and social institutions in the labour and social affairs department, which are responsible for example. about blind citizens, as well as to support organisations helping lonely and inadequate seniors. So once again, I'm going to sum up the numbers of the House documents that I'm applying to. It's 6759, 6760, then 6761, 6762, 6763 and 6983. And I beg you very much to support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u97	Thank you. I ask Mr Janda now and Mr Kaňkovský will prepare himself in a detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I have already presented my position on the state budget particularly in the field of sport in detail at first reading. Let me therefore focus on the two specific items for which I tabled amendments. The first one is already classic and it is a reduction in expenditure on the subsidy programme Supporting the public-service activities of non-state non-profit organisations in the field of gender equality at the Office of the Government for 2 million. I would like to say in advance that if this proposal is voted out, the entire programme will be abolished, and it is precisely by limiting this support that funds can move to areas that are in the interest of both the state and the interests of the citizens and whose social benefits are much more measurable and visible. Therefore, I propose to move this amount to the contribution to the care of the Social Services Act. It is these funds, where e.g. we will find contributions to compensatory aids, they are still underfunded today and still do not reflect enough the increase in the cost of the social services system. Moreover, given the demographic curve, when our populations are objectively ageing, we can continue to anticipate the growth of these expenditures and the money transferred here will find much better application. I will only say one thing about this, and it is much easier to complain about how unfair the world is to us than to fight for its place in it. I don't think any subsidies are necessary for that. However, in the draft budget presented, there is, among other things, an item which is totally unacceptable. It is a subsidy for the Czech Union of Fighters for Freedom. As in previous years, it is expected to receive CZK 6.3 million out of state money. I know that even in politics, strange things sometimes happen that some things work automatically, so to speak. But I think this is way over the line, and I'm not going to accept it. How is it possible that the association under the leadership of Jaroslav Vodička, which I have previously described as pofidérné, and can I repeat this again, is to receive money from the state, or citizens of this country? At first, I'd like to take the argument out of the table that it's only $6 million. It may be a small matter for the government, which is beneath the discernment of every minister. But for most people in this country, it's a lot of money. Six million is the amount that the average citizen earns in 15 to 20 years, and that is often a number of mortgages in family budgets. But much more important than the financial money is symbolism. The problems surrounding the Czech Freedom Warriors Union, which I believe prevent the grant from being granted, can be divided into three parts. The first and the basic is the current leadership of this organization, because the union has deviated from its original mission, ideal and values. Comrade Vodička remains chairman. I don't mean the title as an insult, but as an appreciation of his past as a member of the KSČ and the Public Security Helper. But it's not just history. I find it equally problematic to have his current appearance at the head of the Union. After all, media performances of all kinds over the last few years have spoken for everything. Then there is the independent activity of the association, in many ways perhaps seamless or beneficial. But there are shocking scandals. Just at random - the outbursts of some members against NATO, the disparaging of the Terezín Trieste, the valuation of those associated with the Communist regime. To the third problematic circuit, as the Union of Freedom Warriors deals with the funds entrusted. Last year's inspection confirmed the suspicion that part of the subsidies granted between 2016 and 2018 were used in complete violation of the applicable rules. The association subsequently returned the disputed funds of less than 763 thousand, thus avoiding further sanctions. However, only the abuse of public finances should at least be a reason to be cautious in approving further subsidies. Last year, the Ministry of Finance, the same office, which now wants to send more millions to Comrade Vodička without a glance, carried out the management control. And there are more of these question marks. All you have to do is look at the Union's previous applications for subsidies. Is it really appropriate for more than half of the appropriations to be allocated to overhead costs? For example. CZK 2,9 million was to be directed by the Central Committee for 2019, almost half of the subsidy. The Union in its materials mentions, among other things, the fight for freedom against fascism. But I lack the mention of resistance to communist totalitarianism. On the contrary, I would have imagined if last year's request for money was not a wreath to the statue of Koněv Konev, not only a liberator from the Nazis but also a repressor of the Hungarian uprising. The monument is gone, at least this has been resolved, and the wreaths to the Bolshevik marshals will no longer have to pay the taxpayer. There could be more reasons not to grant a subsidy or at least a more thorough consideration. For example, a split within the Union, when several dozen members of the Lidice organization decided to suspend their membership. I guess it doesn't surprise the reason-- disapproval of management steps. In turn, management is complaining about the behavior of regional organizations, or the situation in the Union is probably not under control. That's just to the edge. [[17.20 hours]] The first reaction to our proposal convinced me that we were doing the right thing. As soon as this amendment began to be written in the media, there was a hit-and-run goose, i.e. the party, the communists, of course. President of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip responded to the attempt to remove the association of comrade Vodička's subsidy by saying that we are already embarrassed about this and that we do not want to distort history and destroy civil society organisations. Therefore, my colleague Filip - I do not see you anywhere - through the President I would like to assure you that we are not awkward, but we are principled. And that we're not twisting any history unlike you and your comrades in the Union, which I don't mean now the Soviet Union, but the association. But what else is there from communists, ideological continuators, total KSČ, to wait, and who else should stand up for the Union of Warriors? So I'm actually not surprised, at least it's clear. And now to the Treasury Department's arguments about why this association is going to continue to receive millions of dollars from the state register. Madam Secretary tried to explain it to me in a letter for which I thank her. This explains the rules for granting subsidies from the General Treasury chapter. Or that the evaluation of applications is not carried out in a standard manner as in other cases. It also argues that the most important criterion for assessing applications is the billing of the subsidy for the previous year. Or, if I say so with exaggeration, the allocation of the subsidy is in some kind of autopilot mode. Legally, formally, maybe it's okay, but I don't think that's enough. Another argument of the Ministry of Finance is that the subsidy is not actually decided by this department, but by the House deciding on the budget as a whole. I mean, why not? I would like to agree with this argument, and I therefore appeal to all Members to support the amendment that we, together with my colleague Jana Černochová and colleagues Pavel Žáček and Vojtěch Munzar, have prepared. That 6.3 million would have been used in a better way. For organizations which, unlike the current Czech Freedom Warriors Union, are a real asset of Czech society and this country. This is the Association for the Conservation of the Links of the Czech Resistance, the Šoa Prague Memorial, the Platform of European Memory and Conscience, the Association of former political prisoners of the Czech Republic and the Czechoslovak Legionary Community. I hope and believe that every Member and every Member who has a real fight for freedom and democracy at heart will raise their hand for our proposal. I would therefore like to sign up for the two amendments in the system under the numbers 6729 and 6957, which I have now justified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u99	Thank you. Mr Luzar is now registered with a factual remark. I'm afraid I don't see him in the hall at the moment, so the application is failing, he can log in again. Mr. Kaňkovský now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u100	Good evening, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, Minister, dear fellow Members, allow me to introduce you to the three amendments that we have prepared for the second reading of the draft state budget for 2021, together with my colleague Pavla Golasowská, for the KDU-ČSL. All these three amendments concern the area of financing social services. I have led some controversy here at first reading, I hope, with Minister Schillerová and Minister Maláčová, and now I will come back to this again and with the changes that we are proposing in this area in particular. At first reading, it was repeated from the mouth of both the Minister that the financing of social services was proposed by the state budget for 2021 at a record of more than CZK 20 billion. Especially on the part of the Minister The Maláčová ones were very, very stressed. And I don't want to conflict in a matter of fact, because that's the truth. But I would follow up on my colleague Hana Aulická Jírovcová, who here explained why this record amount is insufficient to finance social services. She said experience from the regions, and really how I can communicate with regional representatives across the Czech Republic, so they see the necessary allocation somewhere between 5 and 6 billion. The KDU-ČSL are not so high, because we know that really at this time and in this very difficult time it is necessary to save. However, I am deeply convinced that caring for the needy, that is, elderly people and people with disabilities, is not the area where we should be saving, that we should be looking for savings somewhere else. We also know that the demands on workers in social services are constantly and increasingly high, both in terms of the amount of care, in terms of long-term staff shortages in social services, and also in terms of the situation of the pandemic of coronavirus has clearly shown that it is a segment that is underfunded in terms of pay in the long-term. It's already been said here this afternoon. We know that, although social services have increased in recent years, we also know what kind of base started in recent years. That is why we are proposing three amendments under the KDU-ČSL, where we want to increase the funding for subsidies in social services for the state budget by CZK 2 billion. It is in the form of three amendments, which I have read into the system under the numbers of House documents 6998, 6999 and then the third one under the number equal to 7000, and I formally sign up for them at the moment. The first amendment increases the subsidy for social services by CZK 500 million and aims to cover the outages of individual projects from European funds to preventive social projects such as asylum houses, half-way houses, intervention centres, socio-therapeutic workshops and so on. The support for these individual projects from the European Structural Funds ended in 2019, but neither in the budget for 2020 nor in the budget for 2021 are these outages fully uncovered. This is a very necessary preventive social services where we cannot afford their failure. The second amendment increases the allocation to social services by CZK 600 million. This amount is intended to cover increased costs related to the transformation of psychiatric care. My colleague Aulická Jírovcová has also mentioned this. We all know that the reform of psychiatric care is in progress, that it is a very necessary activity, a very necessary process. The comprehensive care for psychiatric patients in this community model of care is of course very important also for social services, and this is where pilot funding from the European Structural Funds ends and needs to be covered from national sources. The third amendment increases the allocation to social services by CZK 900 million and it is intended to cover at least part of the increase in salaries in social services, which does not include the original allocation. But it also has at least partly aided in the failure to co-finance social services by regions, municipalities and cities. Maybe that's not what we're talking about. However, this is not only due to some of the budgetary adjustments that are still in progress at the moment, but also to the economic effects of the covid. And at this moment I can say experience, both from my mother town and from my motherland - I see my esteemed colleague Jiří Běhounek sitting here - when at this moment we are starting to approve the budget of the Highlands for 2021 and it is also not an easy situation at all. And I say this with the full knowledge that the former regional government, headed by former Governor Běhounek, has given us the region in very good financial condition. So it's still gonna work for 2021, but the question is, how are we gonna do it in the next few years? Colleagues, I believe that social services are such an important attribute of modern society that it is necessary to help them at least in the amount of CZK 2 billion - I wish that the increase would be even higher - because care for disabled people and seniors is a business card for an advanced society. That is why I very much believe that you will support the amendments tabled by us in the third reading, or some others that have already been heard or heard here, and that we will prove to the public that we can take care of the necessary quality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u101	Good evening, dear colleagues. We will continue with the next in line, and that is Mrs Majerová. Mr Petr Beitl will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u102	Thank you. Good evening, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to sign up for House document 6963. This is primarily a reduction in chapter 306 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in total of 1.5 billion. These are contributions to international organisations which are also criticized in the National Audit Office's report, which itself notes their inefficiency and unclear contribution to the Czech Republic. At the same time, we also want to reduce the amount of funds flowing from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to nonprofits. It is also a reduction of Chapter 315 of the Ministry of Environment, total by 4 billion. savings. In the Czech Republic there has been an unprecedented increase in the quality of the environment in the last 30 years, primarily because of the richness of the Czech economy and the resulting social pressure. But environmental protection cannot and should not just remain in the hands of environmental activists, as has been happening in recent years. We therefore propose a radical reduction in expenditure and their redirection to a reduction in state debt, which will benefit all citizens of the Czech Republic. It is also a reduction of Chapter 317 of the Ministry for Regional Development in the indicator of other expenditure on regional development and tourism by 7 billion. and reduction of Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education in expenditure on programmes co-financed by the budget of the European Union and from the funds of financial mechanisms outside research, development and innovation, i.e. total by 11 billion. These proposals aim at subsidies, both at the Ministry of Regional Development and at the Ministry of Education. Grants in general, and particularly European ones, lead to an inefficient allocation of resources and advantages for beneficiaries against competition. In the case of education, ideological projects are often financed for European money, which import new left-wing ideologies into our environment, which, on the one hand, have nothing to do on the school grounds, but we also consider them to be harmful and unworthy support from Czech taxpayers' money. Furthermore, it is a reduction in Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration in the indicator of budget contributions to the European Union by 10 billion. In the current situation, I think it is appropriate to give priority to the allocation of money collected from Czech taxpayers for the provision of public services to them, not to the contribution of these funds outside the Czech Republic. 26,5 billion. So we're moving total to Chapter 396 of the State Debt to the State Debt Operator indicator. Overall, Tricolore proposes savings of over 70 billion. CZK and I would be very happy if you would support this House document 6963. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u103	Thank you. Next in line is Mr Petr Beitl and Mr Jiří Kobza will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u104	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to subscribe to Amendments 6975, 6976, 6977, 6978, 6979, 6980 and 6981. All these amendments concern the costs of participation of the Czech Republic in international organisations. Cooperation with international organisations is part of Czech foreign policy. Through organisations, the Czech Republic can implement its foreign policy objectives, gain experience from the international environment and apply them in the state administration. Cooperation with international organisations can also contribute to increasing the competitiveness of the Czech Republic and improving the performance of state administration. However, effective use of the possibilities of this cooperation is a prerequisite for meeting this potential. The Czech Republic cooperates with almost 500 organizations of different types. The representatives of this cooperation are administrators of individual chapters of the state budget, depending on the material focus of the activities of international organisations, and the coordinating role is to be played by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So much theory. Cooperation with international organisations is, in the vast majority of cases, linked to the payment of compulsory contributions, often to the financing of the activities of organisations which range around 3 billion. crowns a year. In addition to compulsory contributions, other contributions may be paid, such as donations and payments for a specific purpose provided by the organisation and amounting to almost 1.5 billion per year. CZK, i.e. the total cost is about 5 billion. Crowns. From March to October 2019, a control of the supervisory authority was carried out across the departments to examine the effectiveness of the funds provided by the State to international organisations for the period 2014 to 2018. The SAO assessed that the prerequisites for effective provision of funds to organisations, measures laid down by the Government of the Czech Republic, which, inter alia, monitored the achievement of savings, had not been properly implemented. The realised savings were rather an exception and were minimal. There has also been no improvement in the effectiveness of cooperation with international organisations and inter-ministerial coordination has not improved. In the absence of complete and reliable data on cooperation with international organisations, the SAO approached all administrators of the state budget chapters and the CNB with a request to fill out a questionnaire. All addressed respondents have provided information on cooperation with international organisations in their 2018 strategy. A total of 477 organisations were evaluated. Among the items of the questionnaire was evaluation of the contribution of membership and evaluation of its foreign importance. Out of a total of 477 organisations, the respondents identified 234 organisations, i.e. 49 per cent, as beneficial, 112 of the organisations remained incomplete, 24 per cent, and 125 of the organisations, i.e. 25 per cent, were identified as non-profitable. From a fundamental foreign point of view, only 21 organisations were positively evaluated, i.e. 4.5 percent. This implies that we have 90 percent foreign-based almost insignificant participations. If we look at what it means in budgetary terms, then the funds spent on international organisations for which the Gestures have not assessed the benefits of cooperation represent only mandatory contributions of almost 850 million. crowns a year. Based on the information from the SAO and the addressed resorts, I propose a reduction in budgets in each chapter of the seven resorts of a total of 271.5 million. Crowns. It is 6 percent of the total cost of international organisations. I am pointing out this savings in favour of Chapter 396 to reduce state debt. Thank you for your attention and please support my amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u105	Thank you, too. Mr. Jiří Kobza will appear, Mr. Pavel Jelínek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it's a pleasant late afternoon. I would like to sign up for amendments registered under numbers 6815, 6816, 6817 and 6854. I'm not going to read the whole explanatory report here, just in a nutshell, I want to let you know what's going on. The House document 6815, in which I propose to transfer from the expenditure indicator the contributions to international organisations and money donations to selected institutions abroad, which has been described by my colleague, Beitl, in such a diminutive manner, I propose these 176 miles. split in half and 88 miles. CZK move to the reserve to address crisis situations, prevent and eliminate their consequences, and reserve for extraordinary expenses under the Integrated Rescue System Act. As the coronavirus crisis has shown us, it is good to have the money ready if a similar crisis occurs. There is certainly no reason for any generous donations abroad in the hundreds of millions of crowns. On the contrary, the means to address crisis situations, as well as finances for our rescue forces, are clearly a priority today. I would like to say one more thing about all four amendments, in fact. It's all money that our state is somehow giving or giving abroad, but it's money that we have to borrow. So I think the one who has enough or surplus of his own resources can give away, but certainly not the one who has to be indebted for it. House document number 6816 covers 70 miles. from the expenditure indicator of transformation aid under the budget chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the budget chapter of the General Treasury. And that's where I suggest we divide it into 64 miles. CZK to the indicator of the government budget reserve and after three million CZK to the budget items Czech Union of Fighters for Freedom and Czechoslovak community legionary. I need to strengthen, for the time being, the amount of funds earmarked for financial assistance and compensation for the citizens of businessmen and companies affected by the effects of the pandemic on coronavirus. And the budgets of civil societies that care for the legacy of the veterans of the anti-Nazi resistance and the establishment of the Republic. At present, when we see attempts to rewrite history, to rewrite actually historical memory, these two organizations are the most important carriers of this very historical memory and the care of monuments and comments of heroes, especially from World War II, keep this historical memory alive, and that is why I think it is important to help them. Moreover, it is within the budget, essentially a cosmetic transfer of money. House document number 6817, which concerns foreign development cooperation within the budget chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where I propose to transfer from this chapter 100 million. CZK to the budget chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the indicator of benefits for persons with disabilities. For foreign development aid, I would like to say that its system consists in the fact that projects financed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are being carried out by a nonprofit who uses most of this money for its own directing, for its own operation. So this money, which we must borrow again, is primarily used to fund nonprofits friendly with the management of the MZV. House document number 6854, here I propose to transfer 70 miles. from the expenditure indicator of transformation cooperation under the budget chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the humanitarian aid indicator in the same budget chapter. Specifically, here I propose to establish an ad hoc new item Humanitarian aid to Armenia for people affected by the war in Nahorni Karabakh. It is a transfer of funds that would otherwise be intended for political non-profit organisations dealing - as I would say diplomatically - by influencing the regime abroad for our money, to humanitarian aid to Armenia, specifically to the Caribbean Armén who are now experiencing the same displacements as our citizens experienced in 1939. This exodus really is very massy, and the help is very, very necessary. So I would like to ask you to support these proposals. I believe that the money that, if we really have to borrow it, will be spent more effectively as I have presented it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u107	Thank you. And with priority rights, Mr Skopeček will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u108	So thank you for your word. Allow me, on behalf of the ODS, to sign up for the amendment under number 7032. It is a comprehensive amendment, in which we come up with savings of almost 81 billion. Crowns. It is a response to an approved tax package, which means that we bring savings almost at the level of the projected blackout. From the general point of view, we focus mainly on operating expenditure, we do not cut investment expenditure. I guess that's it. Anyone who wants it can study the amendment. There's a wage saving, there's a savings on all kinds of subsidies to business entities. There are also operating savings at the Ministry of Finance as a result of the de facto end of the EET. De facto, the property acquisition tax was abolished. This means that even this Ministry would have lower operating costs. If I were to comment on the three biggest items, because the overall amendments are 23, the 23 amendments make the total 81 billion. savings. And the top three are the expenditure item for non-investment purchases and related expenditures of state organisations. There is a planned savings of more than 22 billion. Crowns. It should be said that the total amount of this chapter, or this type of expenditure, is more than 122 billion. Crowns. And we've deducted interest, which, of course, is mandatory in nature, and we're going to save the rest of 30 percent of our expenses. We think the state should just start saving itself. And we're ordaining what we promised, or fattening bark. The second item is a reduction in salaries and other payments for the work done in state institutions. Here I'm just reminding a dispute about two years old between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance about how much can be saved, virtually. how much the number of civil servants can be reduced. Ministry of the Interior, respectively. Deputy Prime Minister Hamáček argued 5%, Minister Schillerová claimed 10 percent. The reality of this government is that 16,000 were added during its term of office. civil servants, which is about 8 billion. Crowns. On this item, on the salary savings, we propose to save almost 17 billion. Crowns. Of course, this does not apply, for example, to teachers who have agreed to raise salaries. However, if we split the amount, only empty spreadsheets are 8 billion. CZK, which is half that amount. And the 16,000. In addition, officials are also 8 billion. So only on these two items-- empty spreadsheets and 16,000. officials who have been accepted by this government can be saved such a large amount. [[17.50 hours]] Of course there are evergreens, which will probably be designed by other political clubs, such as the compensation of fare discounts, there is suggested to save 6 billion. Crowns. We propose to save money for renewable resources of 5 billion. CZK and again, it is a total of 23 amendments, which amount to 81 billion. Crowns. The third largest item, I forgot, is the expenditure item of non-investment transfers to business entities. There we want to save almost 11 billion. Crowns. We believe that subsidies to business operators distort the market. That it must first take money from successful entrepreneurs and then unfairly redistribute them to others, where justice cannot, of course, be done by means of redistribution. Of course, we are also prepared to support other savings that will be proposed by other political clubs. We do not claim that our inventory or summary is the only possible and only correct. If other MPs come up with rational, reasonable savings, we are willing to support them. Above all, that is what we expect from those Members, from those MEPs who, like us, voted in favour of this significant tax reduction, because we say that if taxes are reduced, and we consider this particularly a good step in this economic situation, then, on the other hand, those who voted in favour of tax reductions should come actively with savings, or at least the savings of other colleagues or other MPs should be supported. Let me just remind you that we do this every year. When discussing the last budget we came up with savings, some were similar to this year's proposal of more than 40 billion. CZK, which showed that last year's budget could have been drawn up as balanced at the beginning. This time we de facto doubled these savings to almost 81 billion. Just as a response to the fact that the House today - or these days, the Senate is discussing a significant reduction in the tax burden in the Czech Republic. I guess that's it for me. I have described the total amount of savings, I have described the highest expenditure items and the rest, the other more than 20 amendments in this summary, you can study in the amendment to which I signed up, which is under number 7032. And, as I say, it is a proposal that includes the savings that my colleagues came up with within the ODS, and I therefore present the overall summary of my colleagues' proposals. I'm just gonna take a turn. Today, I tried to insert the amendment into the system at about two o'clock. At first there was an argument that the system had fallen, and later there was an argument that it was impossible to insert an excelovak table. Well, after a few hours, we managed to insert it in Word. Mr Vice-President, I think this is a topic to resolve, because it saved us from discussing second reading for quite a few hours today. At a time when this would be happening in a situation where second reading would be short, we are putting a whole series of amendments in quite a difficult situation and we would have to read the whole proposal here, which if I had to think about reading this whole table, it would have spent a lot of time. I think there is a need to ensure some correction so that this does not happen and that, as part of the second reading, an amendment can quickly be inserted into the system and a number generated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u109	Thank you and the next will be Mr Pavel Jelínek, Mr Jan Hrnčíř will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly present to you the amendment that is included in the system under number 6970. In the draft budget for next year, the main budgetary priority for 2021 and for the years to come is to ensure the stability of the education system and to improve the quality of education, as recommended in the accompanying resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the Parliamentary Press No 287. This intention is also supported by the Czech Government's programme statement, which promotes more money for education in the field of education, so that both teachers' salaries and non-teaching employees' salaries at the end of the election period in 2021 are at least 150 percent of their amount for 2017. Increasing the salaries of pedagogical staff and non-teaching staff is also a government priority for 2021, even at a time when the Czech Republic is facing the pandemic of coronavirus. I have to respond to this because, in addition to salaries, it is also important to secure part of the other non-investment expenditures of regional self-government education. The increase to other non-investment expenditures of regional education of local authorities, from which aids, textbooks, education of teachers and many other things are paid, is very important in the period of covid measures. This appropriation is also intended to cover the first 14 days of sickness paid by the employer. This year's quarantines in connection with the covid have made a big impact on the school budget. The proposed volume of other non-investment expenditure of regional education of local authorities is higher by 1.4 billion, according to the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports it is 300 CZK per pupil, but it is a long planned and promised increase. Therefore, I propose to increase this item by at least another 400 million to CZK 1.8 billion, about CZK 370 per pupil. In particular, it would be an increase in expenditure of Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in the indicator of expenditure of regional education and directly managed organisations under the heading of other non-investment expenditure of regional education of local authorities by CZK 400 million. Secondly, reduce the expenditure of Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration in the indicator of other expenditure under commitment appropriations arising from international contracts for the reception of assistance from the budget of the European Union and financial mechanisms by an amount of CZK 40 million. Third, reduce the expenditure of Chapter 398 of the General Treasury in the European Union budget by CZK 100 million. Furthermore, fourthly, reduce the expenditure of Chapter 398 of the General Treasury in the government budget reserve by CZK 200 million. Furthermore, fifthly, reduce the expenditure of Chapter 398 of the General Treasury in the indicator of other expenditure under the payment item to international financial institutions and other funds by CZK 60 million. [[18.00 hours]] The amendment is prepared in the way that Mrs Schillerová's Minister of Finance's recommendation was made, not only on the chapter's figures, but also on the indicators and on specific items. The proposed appropriations for budget chapter 398 of the General Treasury have not been repeatedly exhausted in previous financial years and appear appropriate for use in education in emergency measures. The indicator of other expenditure under commitment appropriations resulting from international agreements for the reception of assistance from the budget of the European Union and the financial mechanisms shall contain a sufficient reserve. Also under the appropriations for the European Union budget and payments to international financial institutions and funds, there is a sufficient amount of appropriations. The SPD clearly prefers regional education of local authorities, which includes elementary schools, to the European Union's processes. I propose, according to the Government's programming declarations and the House's resolutions and in accordance with the published requirements of the professional associations of school directors and school unions defending the interests of teachers and teachers, to increase the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports on expenditure on regional education under the heading in question the other non-investment expenditures of regional education of local authorities. With this increase, the government can confirm its approach to dealing with emergency measures during the covid pandemic period. The increase will also lead to an increase in wage resources, which the government has confirmed in other chapters of the budget of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. The increase in other non-investment expenditure will prevent the lack of resources for aids, textbooks and teacher education during the time of the coronavirus measures. So I hereby subscribe to this amendment, which is introduced under No. 6970, and I ask you to support this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u111	Thank you. Next in line is Mr Jan Hrnčíř, Mrs Vostrá will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd just briefly sum up. I propose a budget transfer for more than 23 billion. This is a reduction in the contributions to European Union funds, because I believe that it is necessary to leave this money in the Czech economy of the Czech Republic and I propose to leave it for the reduction of state debt. Furthermore, I propose a reduction in funding for so-called inclusion in education, and I propose that this money be left to regional education, precisely special education, because we believe that it will provide better education for handicapped people. Another amendment reduces the funds allocated to the Office of the Government in support of gender activities and moves them to support the employment of disabled people. And the last proposal is to move funds in the chapter of the Ministry of Interior, which is intended for the operation of migration centres, and I leave these funds in the chapter of the Ministry of Interior to support crime prevention. These are therefore House prints under No. 6861, No. 6862, No. 6860 and No 6860 6859. Support, please. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u113	Thank you. Mrs Vostrá, Mr Radovan Vích will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u114	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to sign up for amendments under No. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 6915 of 11 March 2012 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 6915/2006 as regards the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 6915/2006 as regards the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 6915/2006 as regards the application of Council The justification for individual amendments is in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u115	Thank you. Mr Radovan Vích, Mr Radek Holomčík will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u116	Good evening. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is registered in the system under No. 6835. This is an amendment to the draft state budget, Chapter 307 of the Ministry of Defence. I would like to say that, according to the SPD, the Ministry of Defence's budget is not primarily based on the real needs of the military and, above all, on the needs of defense of the state, but has been reflecting the needs of foreign operations for years. It really reflects the fact that the army has promised x billion crowns, on which it is only looking for relevant projects so that it can subsequently invest them. This brings, among other things, huge prices for individual orders. The state is in a very difficult economic situation, which continues to be dramatic. All the numbers that speak are negative. Now, for each of our citizens, there is a hypothetical debt of about 194 thousand. Kroner, we're talking about state debt, and none of us actually know how long the pandemic of coronavirus is going to last and how it's going to go on. In addition, the draft budget for 2021 provides for a minimum of 320 billion. CZK, but the revenue side does not take account of the blackout including the planned cancellation of the supergross wage. The security situation in the world is getting worse. If we look at the annual report on Military Intelligence, how Turkey behaves, the report on defence provision 2019 and so on, the fulfilment of military-political ambitions, then I have reasonable reasons to believe that the situation is not good, and it is necessary to strengthen our own defence capabilities, redo and adapt strategic documents, while reducing the military's tasks and ambitions adequately, for example, in participating in foreign operations, while supporting the domestic arms industry. Foreign operations need to be evaluated, their number optimized and some discontinued. I am referring in particular to Afghanistan, Iraq and Mali. The preparation of acquisition projects is a long-term complex and complicated matter, which may take two years, but I am also convinced that without major changes in the implementation of acquisition processes at the Ministry of Defence, the situation will probably never improve. This is due to the complexity and administrative complexity associated with the lack of professional staff and also the lack of use of the capabilities of our state-owned enterprises. Projects are not prepared in advance, specifications are changing, and then there are attempts to shorten deadlines for their implementation, with the statement that if anyone disputes these acquisitions, it is against modernization of the army. The SPD is not against modernization of the army, but it is unacceptable for us to want to spend more than 7 billion next year in the situation in which our country is situated. CZK to foreign economies. Mainly, these are arms contracts without a selection procedure in a way government - government. And while someone is arguing with offset programs, I am convinced that this is pure support for foreign economies at this difficult time. Polák, Maďar and Slovák, as well as other states, have decided to recapture some military things and have said yes, we will also buy it, we want to modernise the army, but we will buy it in two, three, four years, five years from now, when the biggest economic crisis is over. I expected the government to do the same, but so far, I feel like she traded it for something or traded it somewhere in the world. The military is not doing well in terms of modernization, and the main reason is that its budgets have been cut in the past and the necessary acquisitions have not been made during the economic boom. In the first ten months of 2020, the resort only managed to invest about 7 billion. CZK, and therefore within about three weeks, ministerial servants must find a way to use the remaining 7 billion. CZK intended for investments. I therefore assume that they will not be able to invest several billion crowns again by the end of the year, and this is basically an annual evergreen with another impact on the army. So, on the one hand, we need to support the investigation policy, so that it is not wasted, because the time is quite extraordinary, and on the other hand, we need to support the domestic arms industry. [[18.10 hours]] So the amendments are basically, in the sense of first, the cuts of unnecessary expenditure, which I think are the costs of foreign operations in Afghanistan, Mali, Niger, Chad and Iraq. The cost of these foreign operations in the total amount of approximately 700 million. Then I suggest we transfer the koruna to bribe the state debt. Second, direct some items to the technical evaluation of existing equipment and equipment, i.e. infantry, choppers and helicopters, and thus not reducing the total budget volume of the Ministry of Defence, but converting the earmarked funds to a total amount of about 7.5 billion. CZK within the budget chapter of the Ministry of Defence for further programmes of repairs, maintenance and technical evaluation of these types of equipment and technology. This measure is intended to support domestic enterprises, in particular VOP, s. p., LOM Praha, s. p., and their employees. Finally, I would like to add that the annual expenditure on the military should be in line with the high-quality acquisition projects ahead of time, and ministerial officials should also be able to invest them meaningfully and effectively. So, on the basis of these reasons that I have described, I propose appropriate amendments, which are described in detail in the reasoning of my amendment, which is registered under 6835, and I hereby apply to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u117	Thank you. At this point, Mr Radek Holomčík will appear, and Mrs Golasowská will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u118	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apply from this point of view to my amendment in the system as House document 7012. The justification is part of this proposal. In short, this is a small increase in the budget of the State Veterinary Administration by 14 million. CZK to ensure veterinary supervision in so-called detached slaughterhouse sites. It is potentially a very interesting area, which concerns sustainable livestock farming and the expansion of our range of breeders. I think that at a time when, on the one hand, we are facing and facing an economic crisis and, at the same time, we are having rather intense debates here in the House on food self-sufficiency, and any new market segment, any new option that we will bring to farmers or, in this case, farmers, is very desirable. I will, of course, ask you to support this proposal in the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u119	Thank you. Mrs Golasowská, Mr Španěl will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for an amendment under the number of House document 6941, which I submit together with Members Lenka Kozlová and Helena Válková, and this is a support for the culture of national minorities. The amendment reads: The expenditure of Chapter 336 of the State debt is amended as follows: the expenditure of the specific indicator on the operation of the State debt is reduced by 5 million. CZK and expenditure of Chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture is amended as follows: increasing the expenditure of a specific indicator supporting the culture of national minorities by 5 million. CZK, of which expenditure increases by 4 million. CZK under the Programme Supporting the dissemination and reception of information in the languages of national minorities to the total amount of CZK 24.85 million. Kroner and 1 mil. CZK under the Programme Supporting cultural activities of national minorities for the total amount of CZK 11.15 million. Crowns. Key and largest components of the expenditure block Support for the culture of national minorities is a subsidy programme to promote the dissemination and reception of information in the languages of national minorities. Thanks to this subsidy programme, national minorities in the Czech Republic are able to issue periodic media in their language, but unfortunately the total amount of funds in this programme is gradually decreasing, while the costs, as we know, are naturally increasing. Against 2011, the volume of these funds decreased by almost 8 million. Crowns. In particular, the total amount of these appropriations for 2020 i.e. for this year, it was almost 21 miles. CZK, the same amount is also proposed for 2021. This proposal recommends that of a total amount of 5 million. The crowns were 4 miles. intended precisely for the subsidy programme Supporting the dissemination and reception of information in the languages of national minorities. This proposal follows the reaction of the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek from October last year, who confirmed the underfinancing of this subsidy programme in response to the interpelation and promised an increase of 4 to 5 million. CZK, which also happened, for this year the programme was supported and thank you for that. However, the uncertainty on the part of national minorities lasts and, of course, they are concerned about the amount reduced to next year. The subsidy programme Supporting the cultural activities of national minorities, which is also part of the expenditure block Supporting the culture of national minorities, is also clearly underfunded. Similar arguments apply here, and this proposal recommends that the subsidy programme be increased, as I have already said, by an amount of 1 million. Crowns. I must add that for a strong sub-financing of the subsidy programme Supporting the dissemination and receipt of information in the languages of national minorities many times the members of the subsidy commission of the Ministry of Culture, together held a number of meetings, addressed several letters to representatives of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance or the Permanent Commission for Family, Equal Opportunities and National Minorities. At the beginning of May 2019 they also held a meeting of the Commission with representatives of both ministries, all for the purpose of the debate on the future funding of media for national minorities. Finally, it must be added that the number of national minorities in the Czech Republic is gradually increasing. While 11 national minorities were represented in the Council of the Government for National Minorities in 2006, they are currently 14 national minorities. I thank you very much for the support of this amendment, which will certainly be appreciated by national minorities in our Republic. And I would also like to say a few words about the amendments that my colleague Vít Kaňkovský presented here today, concerning an increase in social services funding of 2 billion. I'd really like to ask for your support, because the money is really missing. It is a great uncertainty for social service providers. And maybe the argument that they're going to increase their finances over the next year isn't going to make them happy, because it's always an administrative burden for them, and as I said, it's also uncertainty because they can't plan, they don't know how they're going to pay people, they can't invest, etc. And I think that employees in social services deserve not only a social award, but also a financial one, and I see that the financial award is still not there. I've already mentioned the salaries of social services workers here at first reading. Maybe I'll say here that it was a non-profit sector, that there's an 18,000 direct-care salary. There is certainly another situation in the benefits and another situation is still in the services that are directly under the state, and social workers' salaries 26 to 27 thousand. That's rude. So I am really asking you to support the amendments that have already been tabled by a colleague here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u121	Thank you and Mr Španěl will come forward, Mrs Jarošová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u122	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my amendment is basically simple. [[Parliamentary document No 6863]] I propose to move funds from the chapter of the General Treasury, it would be 20 million in particular, to the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Czech Republic, in support of forestry, especially for the restoration of forests destroyed by barkworm. It's a seemingly small amount, yet it could be like a gesture, because our beautiful forests have left us generations of ancestors. Please support my proposal really as a gesture of goodwill that we will hand over to future generations these forests and even nature to their delight and especially benefit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u123	Thank you and with priority rights Mr. Chairman of the club ANO Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u124	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Allow me only to make a procedural proposal. [[Sounds like a gong.]] To be sure, I propose, on behalf of the ANO and the ČSSD, that the Chamber of Deputies should act and vote on all proposals today and after 19 and 21 o'clock. Thank you. Even though there's a deal we're gonna do a second reading tonight, please, just in case, let's vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u125	Thank you. After nineteen o'clock, we'll act... Prime Minister? After nineteen o'clock about this point. [[Voices from the diaper.]] Yes. Only about this point, so it's here...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u126	Thank you for your warning - I'm sorry - Mr Munzar. Thank you, colleague. Of course, my proposal concerns only the state budget for 2021, its second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u127	That's what I wanted to know. Thank you. So I'll sign you all off on request, please sign up with your cards. We have here a procedural proposal to vote and discuss this point in the draft law on the state budget after 19 o'clock. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Sorry, sorry, sorry... [[Voices from the diaper.]] I find this vote confusing... And we'll wait until we get the right $67... Okay, we're 67 now, we can vote. So I started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 92. 69 Members are registered, for 67, against no one. The motion was accepted. We can continue with the debate. I've been completely wiped out... Here. Mrs. Jarošová. Mrs Jarošová will speak in the debate and Mr Rozner will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u128	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to present to you here my two amendments for the SPD to the Act on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for next year. [[Noise in the hall.]] In the first amendment under number 6933 I withdraw from Chapter 304 of the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic from the subsidy programme Supporting the publicly beneficial activities of non-state non-profit organisations in the field of equality between men and women half a million CZK and from the same chapter I withdraw from the Programme Support for projects of integration of Romani community members 10 million -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u129	I'm gonna interrupt you, madam, because there's five and a half of us and there's noise, like there's a full O.R. So I would ask the Members if they have any matters to discuss, to discuss them in the lobby, and we will act when it's quiet here. Thank you. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u130	Thank you. And from the same chapter I withdraw from the programme Supporting the project integration of Romani community members 10 million crowns. So a total of CZK 10,5 million, which I am moving to Chapter 304, into the Drug Prevention, Alcohol, Nicotine, and Other Addictions Programme, the Drug Policy Programme. And the justification. I think that the financing of projects for the integration of members of the Roma community is disproportionately high compared to the results they bring in practice. That's why I want part of the finance, that's $10 million, to invest in another area that needs to be dealt with right now, that's in the drug policy programme. Similarly, I propose redirecting part of the funds, the sum of CZK half a million, to support the activities of men and women again into the drug policy programme. This is because gender equality has already been achieved in most major areas and, apart from some minor excesses, this area does not need to be addressed in priority, in addition through non-profit organisations. On the contrary, further enforcement of the gender equality programme could eventually lead to the promotion of inequality, see quotas for women in managerial positions or study quotas in favour of women. Even such ideas are promoted in the world under similar programs, but their impact is rather the opposite. The candidate's ability is then judged not only by his abilities, but by his gender. In my second amendment under number 6932, I withdraw CZK 12.4 million from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in budget chapter 306 from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in budget chapter 314 from the Ministry of the Interior, and in budget chapter 304 from the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic CZK 4.7 million, all these three items are related to expenditure with the performance of the Presidency of the Czech Republic in the Council of the European Union, and this total amount is transferred to budget chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture to a total of three programmes - to support the forestry sector of 12.6 million, to support the water economy of 12.6 million and to support the agri-food industry, namely by increasing national agricultural subsidies, 12.5 million. And the justification. The Czech Republic will chair the Council of the European Union the second half of 2022, but the budget for 2021 already contains considerable expenditure for preparing this Presidency and, given the decrease in revenue due to the pandemic, it is also necessary to reduce expenditure on activities within the European Union, less travel is expected, the use of teleconferences, etc., and it is appropriate to devote this savings to supporting forestry, water management and other agricultural production and food self-sufficiency. I therefore propose to reduce the budget allocated to the expenditure of the Presidency of the Czech Republic in the Council of the European Union in the chapters of the state budget, which have the largest allocated financial amounts for this activity, and in total this makes about 10% reduction. I therefore declare my amendments under 6932 and 6933, which I have just justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u131	Thank you. Mr Rozner will be next, Mr Munzar will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me briefly to present my amendment to the State budget for 2021, which I submit under the SPD and which is under House document number 6956, which I also report to this. In particular, I propose to strengthen the Ministry of Culture's budget chapter by an amount of CZK half a billion, which should be allocated to support private entities active in the field of live culture, which are affected by government measures against the pandemic of coronavirus. Since at the beginning of the pandemic of coronavirus in the cultural sector, almost 130 000 people worked and are one of the most affected sectors of our economy, it is not only incomprehensible to me that the draft state budget in the chapter of the Ministry of Culture is not remembered by a single crown. [[18.30 hours]] Therefore, I propose to move the amount of half a billion from the budget chapter of the Ministry of Education, namely from the so-called. expenditure on programmes co-financed by the EU budget and financial mechanisms outside research, development and innovation. According to the draft budget of this Ministry, this is a very vaguely formulated expenditure to strengthen research, for example, in addressing global socio-economic challenges or promoting inclusive education. For these projects, almost CZK 8.4 billion is allocated in the draft budget of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports next year, which is an increase of almost CZK 1.5 billion compared to the previous year, i.e. some 22 percent. Such an increase is completely incomprehensible and indefensible to our public in the current social and economic situation arising from the pandemic of coronavirus, which often turns every crown. These projects can undoubtedly be described as necessary, inefficient and unpriority at the moment, and their scope can definitely be significantly narrowed, or they can be completely abolished and the funds saved are used to save Czech living culture, which will help this amount in a fundamental way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u133	Thank you. Mr Vojtěch Munzar will appear, Mr Volný Member will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, colleagues and colleagues. Several of my proposals, which I am proposing, are actually part of the comprehensive ODS amendment for budget savings, which my colleague Skopeček recently presented here, because, unlike, for example, Minister Zaorálek, who spoke very flamingly here at the beginning, I believe that the smaller the state, the more money will remain in the taxpayers' wallets so that they can freely decide what they will use them for and the better for our Republic. Minister Zaorálek called it a zombie idea. I consider it backwards to try to take as much money from people as possible, build up an expensive state, receive a lot of officials, increase bureaucracy, reduce the performance of state administration and thus reduce the competitiveness of the Czech Republic. That's what we've witnessed over the last few years. All you have to do is look at the SAO's annual reports. But I understand that deciding as much money as possible out of other people's pockets is every socialist's dream. However, I signed up for the debate to sign up for another amendment, which is conducted after 6986, specifically to help and support the activities of voluntary firefighters, namely 500 million crowns, chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, specifically from subsidies to renewable energy sources, where there is almost 27 billion, and that is indeed a high expenditure in the state budget. I believe that voluntary fire brigades ensure both the safety of our citizens, especially in smaller municipalities, so they contribute to social life and therefore deserve our support. I think that, in my time, my activity deserves our attention, and I will therefore ask you to support this amendment at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u135	Thank you. At this point, Mr Lubomír Volný will appear, Mr Válek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u136	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Today, we are all discussing the level of its deficit, and thus the impact on the future of our children and grandchildren, as part of the debate on the state budget for 2021. I certainly can't solve the entire state debt and, like some of you, I'm not offended by the current amount given above all by solving the covid crisis. However, I think that we all need to contribute to making our future as little as possible in debt, and I believe that this is one item that will be planned next year in the amount of CZK 1 259 610 000, which can certainly be saved or converted into more important activities. These are contributions from political parties to their activities, so called. money for mandates and contributions to electoral votes. In this House, proposals are very often made, across the political spectrum from left to right, to abolish subsidies for political non-profits. I fully agree with this consensus and agree, but the richest political non-profits that even have their incomes guaranteed by law are parliamentary political parties and movements. This House, with its decisions and actions, both the government coalition and the opposition have thrown an emergency on citizens with unprecedented economic and social consequences. It is time for this particular House to be truly compatible with the citizens who elected it. Freezing the salaries of constitutional officials is certainly a welcome gesture of solidarity with the nation, but it is only a marketing gesture without any tangible impact on the state of public finances and the quality of life of citizens of this country. The billion and quarter you plan to pay for your party needs and party business next year are money whose savings will no longer be merely a idle gesture, political marketing and media slap in the water. Show the citizens how much politics really costs, how much it gets richer every year, and how much you have for your party spending and party business. There is no poor political party or movement in this hall, but every political party and movement in this hall should tighten its belt properly, because it is this House that tightens the belts of the citizens of this country. You can't keep preaching water while still drinking the best wine. You can't keep ordering, forbidding, restricting, while meeting secretly in illegally opened restaurants, drinking beer in the toilet, taking photos in violation of regulations on the street, hypocritically putting on drapes in front of the camera, restricting other political non-profits and outside parliamentary parties and spending the same billions on your own parties and movements as before the covid when you prepare the whole republic for never being the same again. You must preach water and drink water, you must set an example and really reduce your party consumption. No, don't touch me, gentlemen and ladies, behind your head, don't stone me for trying to get out of your pie. We only want you to set a real example in times of crisis. We believe that if non-voting small parties can operate without state money and meet all the conditions that have historically been invented here in this House in an attempt to eliminate them democratically, then we all users of the state-paid parliamentary offices, the services of assistants or experts must do the same. We want us to show our constituents that we can turn words about solving a crisis into actions, and we are ready to suffer along with them. A billion and a quarter, that's really not a small amount of money. This requires one payment of social security for all small businessmen who had to close their establishments at this time. I know it won't solve all their problems, but at least it'll show that we appreciate their work and respect it because we know they can feed themselves, their family, and they don't wait with their hands stretched out for welfare. Dear colleagues, I am aware that contributions from political parties are bound by law, and therefore I call on the Minister of Finance, almost breathless, to immediately prepare an amendment to the Act on the financing of political parties and movements and to deliver it to the House for approval. For once, he's recording this terrible emergency for us. Such an amendment can be dealt with in a shortened regime with good will. I believe that every Member and every political party must raise their hand for him. We don't care about funding for our posters and billboards and other party business, but about the real solution to the crisis situation and helping those on whom it most affects. That is why we have been elected here. Saved funds of either CZK 1 259 610 000 or CZK 629 805 000 we propose to move from Chapter 398 of the General Treasury in the indicator the contribution of political parties to the cost of electoral expenses to the political parties to the indicator of the means to support entrepreneurship. [[18.40 hours]] I am here on the amendments that we have drawn up together with my colleague Ivana Nevludová and my colleague Marian Bojek, inserted into the system under number 7009 and 7011, when Amendment 7009 is about a 100% reduction in the contributions mentioned, and if you do not have the courage and moral strength to reduce the revenue of our party secretariats, there is still our amendment put into the system under number 7011 which we propose at least 50 percent solidarity reduction in the contributions, particularly to parliamentary political parties and movements. I hereby declare these amendments. Thank you for your attention and I ask for their support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u137	Thank you. The next in line is Mr. Válek. [[He's not present.]] So for Club TOP 09, on behalf of Mr. Válek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u138	Thank you for the floor and for the understanding, Mr President. Allow me, on behalf of Mr Válek, to sign up for his amendment, which is listed in the system under number 6973. The purpose of the amendment is to increase funds for research and development in health care, which is a specific indicator in Chapter 335 of the Ministry of Health, at the expense of both the Office of the President of the Republic and the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic, after CZK 50 million. The petitioner believes that both the Office of the President of the Republic and the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic will do without the 50 million, while the Czech society, especially in today's situation, cannot do without research and development in health care. An increase of 10 per cent of this specific indicator is considered optimal by the proposer of the amendment. Thank you for your attention and support for Mr Válek's amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u139	Thank you. Mr Radek Koten will appear, Mr Juránek will prepare. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u140	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Let me justify this House document number 6870, so it is an amendment which increases the specific cost indicator of the state debt operator in budget chapter 396 by CZK 111 million to 440 thousand. Currently, when the whole Czech Republic... or when the whole Czech Republic is subject to restrictions and increased costs associated with the SARS-CoV-2 crisis, it is necessary to adjust the state budget to serve the citizens of the Czech Republic as a priority. Promoting the integration of foreigners is a subject that must also be addressed in this context. At the same time, we need the government's debt not to rise to an unpayable amount. Therefore, its increase needs to be corrected in time and efforts to reduce state debt. Last year's budget of CZK 522 non-investment transfers to non-profit and similar organisations in a specific indicator of expenditure to ensure the fulfilment of the tasks of the Ministry of the Interior and other organisational units of the State in the part of the expenditure of the central authority amounted to CZK 70 million and was increased by CZK 86 million for 2021. It is reasonable to believe that this increase is intended to serve precisely for the integration of foreigners by non-profit organisations. On the other hand, funding should be maintained for aid to seniors, handicapped, long-term patients, victims of domestic violence and, where appropriate, socially weak persons. Therefore, CZK 50 million was left in this item for this social assistance and CZK 106 million of CZK 440 000 is proposed to be transferred to a reduction in the state debt. The financing of the integration of foreigners is related to expenditure item 502 - other payments for the work carried out in a specific indicator of expenditure with the designation of expenditure to ensure the performance of the tasks of the Ministry of the Interior and other organisational components of the State in part of expenditure Administration of refugee facilities of the Ministry of the Interior, which was also increased by CZK 5,384 155 against the state for this year. Even this increase, which is intended to serve at the adaptation and integration courses of foreigners, cannot be considered justified for next year. It is therefore proposed to move the amount of CZK 5 million to reduce the state debt. A growing government debt needs to be dealt with without delay. Above all, we need to think about the future of the Czech Republic and its citizens, not to sacrifice the financial future not only for our children, but also for ourselves, to have money for pensions and now for working generations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u141	Thank you. Mr Juránek will appear, Mr Bendl will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u142	Mr President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues who are still listening to me, I will be here at this moment for the KDU-ČSL club to present the House documents 6994, 6995, 6996, 7013 and 7001. What the documents are about. The first document, 6994, is about volunteer firefighters. They are also part of an integrated rescue system. Every time something new comes up that needs to be solved in the rescue system, there will also be new problems. And the quite ordinary thing that's happening right now is the new equipment right at the time of the covideo, wherever it hits, and that's why we're suggesting a 300-mile increase. Crowns. In the Houses of Document 6995, there is indeed such a proposal, an incentive and a possibility at all that can be dealt with within the budget during the next year, even if we do not approve it at the beginning of the budget. It's about 5 billion. crowns that could be invested in housing in a very effective way. And now I'm saying that even if it doesn't work out, it's an equally advantageous investment at a time of crisis. And that amount is also calculated to be loans and that there would be co-financing and the overall result could be around 10 billion that would be spent on affordable housing. The next document we are presenting is House Document 6996. Here we really want to help those who are affected by covid and something else. Now we're thinking of Armenia, which, besides the covid, also has the consequences of a devastating war, and we want to agree with the others in the House that 100 miles. CZK is an amount that will greatly help them, and we also have feedback that it is indeed an amount that, if the Czech Republic had provided, it would indeed help Armenia significantly at this difficult time. The House document 7013 is then about drug prevention, for adictological services that are currently missing, and therefore it is also proposed 100 miles. Crowns. [[Parliamentary document No 7013 has not been inserted into the system]] Finally, in the House document 7001 I will just try to solve a problem that we have not been able to include during the case and which concerns winemakers, especially in those areas such as South Moravia, Zlínský kraj, the edge of Vysočina, Mělnicko, but also Prague, and I underline this. So that's where we're proposing 200 million miles to solve the problems that have been raised specifically by winemakers within the covid. Crowns. [[18.50 hours]] Of course, this is all even more carefully justified in the relevant specific House documents, we will certainly discuss this before the third reading, where I will ask you to support these proposals. At the same time, in subtext, I say that those who will not be supported, so I will strive to get them involved in this budget. For one reason, we are now approving a budget that we already know is wrong because we do not know what the Senate will do with our proposal, and we do not know in what form it will actually make absolutely fundamental changes. That's why I'm emphasising the 5 billion item in particular. CZK through the Ministry of Regional Development for Housing. It is a question that could help us at roughly the same level as when we invest in transport. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to the third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u143	Thank you. The chairman of the Pirates Club Jakub Michálek will perform with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u144	Thank you for the floor. I apologize to my colleagues for getting ahead of them. I want to sign up for House document 6989. It is my amendment, which addresses the long-term unsatisfactory situation with the repair of the ÚSTR building, or the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. I walk around him practically every day, and it's a building that's now wrapped in plastic and plates. Unfortunately, it is not in operation and historians pay millions of crowns for rental in commercial space. So there was a reconstruction, the reconstruction was interrupted, and given that there were some changes and an increase in the necessary resources for the reconstruction, and the Ministry was "stuck" so the reconstruction is out of sight. Even the sale of that historian's building is being considered, stating that in some time they will not be needed anyway, because they will no longer have jurisdiction. On the contrary, I think it is important to remember what was done here under the previous regime, document it and share it with the new generation. However, I also received other feedback. For example, I got a call from a lady who wondered: Why 30 years, Mr Michálek, after the fall of communism, do we need historians to examine it? So really, historians are needed after what happens, rather than before. Prognostics do that. And countries that have gone through such difficult periods, such as Nazism or communist dictatorship, have institutions that explore this time and spread knowledge between society and the new generation. I understand that this is quite high money, over CZK 400 million, on the other hand, it is necessary to look at the return of the funds. That means better than paying rents now every month for commercial space, when we have our own building and we can use it, so it's better to put those investments in my opinion, and in the long run, it saves us the money. Unless, of course, the aim is to destroy the historians of their building and prevent the crimes of communism from being investigated. But I believe neither the Secretary nor anyone else has such a purpose. So I dare ask you to support this amendment, which will actually come back to us in the long term, because we will not have to pay for the leases.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u145	Mr Bendl will speak in the general debate, Mr Dolínek will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Minister, colleagues, colleagues, colleague Skopeček has tabled concrete amendments here, so I will no longer comment on them. However, I would like to draw the attention of the Minister -- that is okay, I will wait -- the Minister, not only to the expense page, but also to the revenue page. [[discussion at the rapporteur's table]] I am convinced that we still have a number of resources that we do not use, or do not want to use. The Czech Republic owns a relatively large number of assets, land that are economically unusable, is managed by either the State Land Office or the Office for State Representation in Property Affairs. It's small land, which I say are not economically usable, and it's useless for the state to hold. In my deep conviction, it is possible to consider selling these land and to increase the revenue part of the budget, while at the same time to relieve yourself of the amount of bureaucracy that this property manages, with the property actually carrying nothing, so it only puts a burden on the state budget. I would, or I would ask you to do something more about this subject. I can't think of a number, but I can increase the pressure on the use of the property that the state has or, on the contrary, consider whether it needs this property at all. From the practice of such land I know a lot, there will certainly be thousands that the state is not and will not be able to use in the future. Anyway, maybe there's someone who's interested in the properties and the land. I am talking about real estate that is economically unusable to the State. Then I wanted to turn your attention to the matter of expense. We discussed this on the agricultural committee. This year, the state has exceptionally strengthened the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture chapter in the amount of CZK 12,5 billion. Of the majority, this amount was used to eliminate the damage caused mainly by the catastrophic crust, but also by other pests, who have multiplied, with which there is a huge problem, and if we do not address this situation, there are enormous economic damage. There is no koruna left in the budget to solve these problems, so I want to ask whether the Ministry of Finance is counting on either strengthening the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture or finding other resources to address this situation. Because by being in a chapter written zero, and certainly not the order of hundreds of millions of crowns, but unfortunately billions of crowns - if you expect such an item to appear in the area of demand for a solution to this situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u147	Thank you. Mr Petr Dolínek will speak in a detailed debate and Mr Čižinský will prepare himself. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u148	[[He's not coming for a long time.]] Thank you. I'm sorry, I was here with Mr. Chairman Michálek discussing the state of the building he was talking about in the department. I don't think it's a budget issue. It's a technical problem, and the government is able to solve it, even the CFI. But it's about making it clear that the contract is historically under investigation by the police and the new contract can be realized. So, please, let's just put this discussion back into the substance of the matter. Just as I would also ask other colleagues who say that some political parties here are taking a billion and a quarter, that's a lie. Just to say that the truth doesn't ring out here in the last few minutes. On the other hand, I thank my colleagues that they do not respond to this, because everyone has the right to express themselves and that discussion will then be expressed in a vote. I personally volunteered because I want to apply to the draft press number 6972, which concerns the amendment, where we reduce expenditure in Chapter 396 of the State Debt, the specific indicator of the government debt operator, by 150 million. [[document]] In addition, we increase expenditure in Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration, a specific indicator of expenditure maintained in the EDS SMVS programme financing information system in total under financing actions and decisions of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament and the Government of the Czech Republic, subsidy title 298D22, new item construction of a new primary school in the Prague-Březineves district by 150 million. [[19.00 hours]] The reasoning is simple. As you know, Prague no longer has 1 million inhabitants, as it has been sold, it does not have 1.2 million inhabitants, Prague has more than 1.4 million inhabitants, and in these urban areas, such as Březineves etc., which is the right-hand part of Prague, where it is extremely expanding in construction, primary schools are missing. In itself, Prague has financed a number of billions, a number of billions, and has financed the expansion of the capacity of primary and secondary schools and kindergartens over the last eight nine years. The subsidies to the urban parts, I'm sure it will be confirmed by colleagues from the Mayors and so on, are extreme. It is not similar anywhere in the history of the Czech Republic that such generously any region or state subsidized education. It's because of the success of Prague. Unfortunately, we all know that the Minister, the Vice Prime Minister, is in a difficult situation where there is no finance, and therefore, of course, Prague is also losing its billions that it could use for such investments, and therefore, for the first time after three years, I come to ask colleagues to consider whether they would be able to co-invest each year. I understand that it is difficult, that it is nonsystemic, but it seems to me to be a very real requirement that corresponds to all studies on the development of Prague. So once again, I'm asking you to do this. I have one more sip to finish. You know, I'm sorry here that there's often an equal between a nonprofit organization equals a thief or a crook or someone who's hurting. I don't think so. I think that nonprofit organizations in the vast majority help defend the fundamental principles that we have in the Constitution and which most of us sitting here present. I find it very sad that someone is able to lie about nonprofit organizations and do such evil around them. I'd like to ask my colleagues, first look at what's really going on, and then let's talk about who we want to take some funding from. I acknowledge that there are individual cases, and that I am able to talk about, which deserves a re-evaluation of funding. That's absolutely appropriate, but mostly please, let's not throw those people who work in their free time or for minimum or very low wages into one bag with those who do harm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u149	Mr Jan Čižinský will speak in a detailed debate, prepared by Mrs Kovářová, who, I would like to say, is the last but not the last. The last one is Mr. Vít Rakušan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u150	Have a good day. Thank you for the floor. I would like to introduce and apply to two amendments. It's a design of 7019 and 7020. The 7019 proposal concerns the following change. In Chapter 315 of the Ministry of Environment, expenditure block 3.1 conservation of nature and landscape, expenditure heading 3.1.1 improving the state of nature and landscape, I propose an increase in funding to set aside a landscape care programme of 150 million. Crowns. In Chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture on a specific indicator of support for the agrifood complex, indicator of other expenditures, I propose a reduction of expenditure by 150 million. Crowns. The point is, it's a year-on-year reduction in the allocation of funds for the program I'm asking for a half increase. This forceful cut is totally unacceptable for this programme, which is why I propose that we strengthen this chapter. As regards Amendment 7020, there I propose in Chapter 315 the Ministry of the Environment, Expenditure Block 3.1 conservation of nature and landscape, expenditure heading 3.1.1 improving the state of nature and landscape, increasing the resources earmarked for 115170 to support the restoration of natural landscape functions by 50 million. Crowns. In Chapter 329, the Ministry of Agriculture, on a specific indicator, proposes support for the agrifood complex in the indicator for other expenditures by 50 million. Crowns. The Ministry of the Environment has long been criticised for insufficient support for adaptation measures to mitigate the effects of climate change. That's why I propose a 50-mile increase. It is from the money that solves this change, because this programme of the Ministry of the Environment is about mitigating the effects of climate change. Thank you and I ask for the support of these two amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u151	Thank you. At this moment, President Vít Rakušan will speak and Mrs Věra Kovářová will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u152	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Well, the best of all, so I left Mrs. Kovářová at the end, but it's more because I'm gonna be really brief and she's got a longer gig ready, so thank her for letting me in front of her. I would like to sign up for three amendments under 6856, 6857 and 6858. The first concerns the amount that should be in support of families of persons in prison, which is a matter which has completely disappeared from the chapter of the Ministry of Justice for next year. Similarly, in the second proposal, we lost money, which should relate to the drug policy programme within the Czech Republic, which I think is not exactly strategic to save on these expenditures. The third amendment would concern the maintenance of the anti-corruption prevention programme. Again, this concerns the Ministry of Justice as well as the previous two proposals. We would like to take the budget amount from the heading of Chapter 301 of the Office of the President of the Republic. Thank you for supporting these proposals in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u153	Thank you. Next in line is Mrs Věra Kovářová, Mr Juříček will be prepared. I apologise, after the speech of the rapporteur. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u154	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you the amendments to STAN. First I'm going to log on to them under numbers and then I'm going to justify them individually. These are amendments under House documents 7022, 7023, 7024, 7035, 7036, 7027 and 7028. Now allow me to present these amendments. The first amendment concerns cultural monuments and their salvation. There we add to the conservation programs at the Ministry of Culture to the emergency fund - there are two variants in the design. One is 100 miles. Kroner, the second is 50 miles. Crowns. This is because there are many sights in the Czech Republic in a state of emergency, they are in danger of irrecoverable damage and, of course, the loss of historical value. And if the owner, for example, fixes the roof, the rest will remain relatively intact and can be repaired gradually for perhaps ten years, but if the roof is not repaired, then unfortunately such a monument will indeed come to nothing. I think that repairing cultural monuments at this stage will also help to move the local economy. [[19.10 hours]] Of course, the same applies to our second amendment, where we add money to the rescue and restoration of cultural monuments for programs for the rescue and restoration of cultural monuments to the Architecture Heritage Rescue Programme and the Urban Monument Reserve Recovery Programme, up to 50 miles each. We do this and we try to raise this money every year. We've never been heard before. On the contrary, even in one year there was a fall in funds. And once again, they're small investments, they can help to move the local economy. There is a great deal of work in the whole regions, and then, I don't think, in the whole regions, but throughout the Republic of the regions, work could be commissioned, and we consider this to be important in addition to saving cultural monuments. Then we have one such minor amendment as regards the amount of funds, but that is no less important. You may have heard of svatý Ludmila, you must have heard. And you may also have heard of Saint Ludmila celebrating her anniversary, virtually. will be celebrated 1 100 years after the murder of the Princess svatý Ludmila. A number of events are being prepared for this event. A national pilgrimage will be held. I think that even such an action deserves great attention, because it is not only regional action, but national and really important. That is why we propose to increase or add money to cultural activities, to priority actions, in the amount of 5 million. Crowns. I just have to remind you that this event, which the municipality and various associations and other towns adjacent to are preparing for for for many years, was also covered by the project by the then Minister of Culture Daniel Herman, and I think it really deserves attention. So I hope that such a minor amendment, which, of course, this action is very important, will not be commented on this time so that the state budget could collapse. The fourth amendment is to help food banks. I have been following this matter for many years. In the first year we came to the House during this parliamentary term, I managed to push for an agricultural increase for food banks in the Committee. The amount was really small. It's gradually increasing. But given the situation we find ourselves in, and as I am in contact with the directors of food banks, the number of needy not only homeless people is increasing, but the number of singles, single seniors who go to food banks for help is increasing significantly. A certain amount is given to food banks each year. And they can apply for subsidies every year. And every year it happens that at the end of the year they find themselves without operational money. And every year, the Ministry of Finance, respectively. The Department of Agriculture gives extra money. I must say that this amount is given to them every year only sometime in December. I think it is not good, and it is clear that they need to hire new people, because the number of tons, the amount of food that is distributed, is increasing. And they also sometimes have a supply problem, which you may have experienced and seen during this year's last collection, that the shelves before the collection were completely empty, because the second-to-last collection could not take place due to the coronavirus crisis. So we're adding $20 million to the food banks next year. CZK, in support of the agrifood complex and other expenditures, and this is support for the activities of food banks. So I also ask you to support this amendment. It's only 20 miles. Crowns. And that's what I do after talking and consulting the head of the food banks. The fifth amendment is to compensate for the loss of revenue from fare for the region. It is clear that the number of passengers in public public public transport has fallen significantly in relation to the spring wave of the pandemic of coronavirus and extraordinary measures of day-to-day. And then the edges...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u155	I will ask you to try to transfer your dialogues to the lobby and allow the Member to speak. There's really just enough of us here, and so we don't have to scream. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u156	Thank you, too. Furthermore, the regions as the orderers of this transport were invited not to limit the number of connections in order to avoid a high concentration of passengers on buses or trains. As a result of this, the fare revenues fell significantly, but the costs remained unchanged. In some European countries, the state then proceeded to compensate the regions for the outages in the fare. So, after consulting the regions, and I think that even after several interventions on the Minister of Transport Havlíček, we decided to make an amendment to compensate for these significant sales losses of 1.3 billion. Crowns. And I'm saying "only" because the total blackouts were 3.6 billion. Crowns. I have to say that the amount that we were looking for to move into this particular new item, we found in this item, which is called - I'm not going to say exactly now, but it's essentially the discount for pensioners and pupils. It turns out that this year the amount was not exhausted. Originally planned was 6 billion, exhausted was about 3 billion. The koruna and I assume that some such savings could be next year. And as I noted from the Minister of Transport's statement, even though he was negative for my interpellation, it seems that he has changed his mind in the questions of Václav Moravec and that he is counting on such compensation - he is probably counting on such compensation. I think it might help the regions a lot. Because, as we've already noticed, the regions are calling for different reasons, and we know how to pick up public transport fares. Then there is the sixth amendment. Briefly - an active employment policy. We are increasing this item by 500 million, even though we know that this item, or active employment policy, the amount that has been allocated there, has often been affected by the justification that we do not need it. I think and believe that this amount and this increase will be needed, because the situation has changed completely. [[19.20 hours]] On my question to the Committee on Budgets, if the Ministry of Finance is counting on an increase in unemployment, the answer was yes, he's counting on it. Unemployment should be around 4.5 percent in the next year. And I think that given what money is being spent on from active employment policy, this will certainly be very important. This can be used to mitigate the effects of unemployment, especially on retraining. And that's where I think it's very important. On community service works that work very well, and on ensuring socially efficient jobs etc. Some may think that such funds are not well allocated, but I believe that time will prove useful to us. The last amendment is also a more minor amendment and concerns the promotion of local planning activities of municipalities and the promotion of architectural and urban competitions. Part one, we're going to allocate 45 miles there. The other 5 miles. Crowns. Support, respectively. financial assistance for municipalities in the development of territorial plans is very important. The municipalities are obliged to create new territorial plans by a certain year, but they actually have problems with their acquisition mainly those smaller municipalities, because sometimes these amounts are in the order of hundreds of thousands of crowns. So we'll allocate there after consultation. And of course, the very interesting amendment in the second part is the promotion of architectural and urban competitions. That's where we put five miles. Crowns. It's kind of small, but if we want the municipalities to do architectural competitions, I think it's good for them to be financially supported, because few of the mayor's council will convince them that the architectural competition is a good solution for their community and that they can create very good works that their descendants will be proud of in future generations. And, of course, this also helps to meet the objectives of architecture and building culture policy of the Czech Republic. So many of our amendments. Perhaps this time, the Minister believes that we do not have any amendments regarding primary, kindergarten schools. We have noted that some grant titles have been renewed, have joined somewhere, and I am very glad that you have finally understood that municipalities, cities and regions must have school buildings to have children to go to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u157	I thank you and Mr Juříček, next to the detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u158	Yes, thank you, good evening. I have basically only one amendment, but I have not been able to load it into the system, so I will say it without the number of the amendment. My proposal lies in three things. Chapter 309 of the Ombudsman's budget will be reduced by 30 million. Crowns. You know that we have been discussing this on the Committee on Budgets for two years, that the Ombudsman's budget is increasing unusually, even up to 162 million for next year. CZK, so a reduction of 30 miles. Crowns. It was usually around 110 to 120 miles in the previous years. Crowns. The second of the chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is Chapter 306, the reduction of the budget of this chapter by 1.mld. CZK, where 500 million is spent in PROPEA and PROPED projects. Crowns. I have my experience with this, it's completely ineffective, and the remaining 500 miles. CZK take from the operating costs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And the last part is from the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, which is Chapter 333, reducing the budget by 50 million. Kroner to motosport. We know that the Autoclub repeatedly cheated in terms of the number of athletes and the number of members of the Autoclub and had great differences between the FIA and what it showed in the Czech Republic. So a 50-mile cut. Crowns. Besides, they're rich people, so they can pay for it. It is all at the expense of a reduction in the state debt of CZK 1 billion 80 million. Thank you for your attention and a nice evening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u159	Thank you. I have already skipped the rapporteur twice, and I am deeply sorry about this. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u160	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I'd just like to clarify my colleagues. My colleague, Hanka Aulická, spoke here in general about the transfer under Chapter 1.2 billion to social services, but she forgot to sign up for the amendment. So I'm fixing this, and I'm applying to the amendment under 6871. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-02-ps2017-072-02-008-014.u161	Thank you, too. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in a detailed debate. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. Thank you all, at the same time I am ending the second reading of this proposal and at the same time interrupting the meeting, ending today's meeting. We'll continue tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. according to the approved agenda, written interpelations.
