ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-003-489.u1	489. Information of the Minister of the Environment on the situation on the Bečva River We have interrupted this item on 13 November 2020 at the 62nd meeting, and a detailed debate has been concluded. In the general debate, the resolution of Mr Ondřej Benešík, Mr Stanislav Blaha, Mrs Dana Balcarová, was read. In a detailed debate, a Member of Stanislav Blaha, subsequently Ondřej Benešík, submitted his resolution... After the agreement with the appointed appellants and therefore subsequently Mr Benešík, after the agreement with the appointed appellants, has read all the proposed resolutions in the agreed order. However, the House was not a quorum, so the President cut off the item before voting on the motions for resolutions. Richard Brabec and the rapporteur, Mr Ondřej Benešík, took the position of Minister of the Environment at the rapporteur's table. There's a vote ahead of us. I will ask the rapporteur to give us a vote on the motions for resolutions. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-003-489.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have already tabled a motion for a resolution last time, which is the joint work of Ondřej Benešík, President Balcarová and Mr Blaha, with the fact that today I would read it one more time with the fact that... Given that we discussed this matter some time ago, so with permission, or rather, I would like to move some of the deadlines that have been read in the original proposal a little bit so that we can give the Ministry of the Environment sufficient time to be able to respond. Mr Vice-President, I will now read again the motion for a resolution, which I am referring to, to which my colleagues Stanislav Blaha and President Balcarová also apply. [[11.20 hours]] Chamber of Deputies I. Notes that the ecological disaster on the Bečva river of 20 September 2020 caused by the leakage of the unidentified amount of cyanide caused by the poisoning and death of all living organisms on the 38 km of the river in the river has not yet been satisfactorily explained. In addition, on 27 October 2020, there was another leak of unknown chemicals. Even this event is not yet explained; II. asks the government to 1. ensure a thorough examination of chemicals leaks from 20 September 2020 and 27 October 2020; 2. oversees the granting of exemplary fines to the culprits, including the obligation to pay the financial compensation for the damage caused, 3. submitted to the Chamber of Deputies a concrete proposal for measures to prevent similar leakages of chemicals not only on the Bečva river, but on all streams in the Czech Republic; III. asks the Minister for the Environment to: [[1.]] and here is the change - within 60 days of today he has come before the Chamber of Deputies and informed about the course of the investigation, changes and procedure in the case of poisoned Bečva, 2. publish the methodology according to which samples and evidence are taken in the event of such accidents; IV. Calls on the Minister of the Environment to draw up and discuss a binding regulation to ensure a uniform approach to the investigation of accidents in the environment, which would give rise to the competence of individual government bodies and other stakeholders, and to provide clear binding procedures governing the procedure for the investigation and transmission of information between all stakeholders, including keeping records of all actions so that the entire procedure can be evaluated retroactively, and to submit this binding regulation to the Chamber of Deputies within two months. I will repeat once again, or I have already read the motion for this resolution about a month ago, with the fact that we have only, and only today, moved the time limits so that the Ministry of the Environment has sufficient time to evaluate and present matters to the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-003-489.u3	Thank you. Mr rapporteur, are you proposing that we vote on this as a whole, or do you have any other proposal on the voting procedure?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-003-489.u4	I would suggest that we vote on this as a whole, unless, of course, there is another proposal from the plenary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-003-489.u5	Does anyone else have a proposal against the rapporteur's proposal? He doesn't. In that case, we may proceed to the vote. I've checked you all out, please sign up with your voting cards again. We are voting on the proposal in the form in which the rapporteur, Mr Ondřej Benešík, has just presented it. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the 99 vote, 81 Members signed up, for 44, against no one. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. I am done discussing this point, thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. [[A request for a performance.]] To the vote? Yes. I can give the floor to the vote. Mr. Blaha. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-003-489.u6	Mr Vice-President, such an incredible thing has happened to me, I was still here in the vote with the Minister if he would not open the debate, because that would be really necessary under the impression of the new events, and I did not have time to return to vote. I was pushing the button, I voted, or I wanted to vote in favour, but I couldn't do it anymore. So, of course, I voted in favour of my resolution, I say for the record, I voted in favour, the device did not take this into account.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-003-489.u7	Yes, I understand, for the tape screen, you do not question the vote. Mr. Deputy Chairman of the Leo Luzar Club with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-003-489.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am taking advantage of my right to speak with priority on this matter. I also expected a debate that could have followed on this point. However, by being closed and not reopened, we could not comment. But the situation is evolving. If today was to be just the adoption of a read resolution, I do not consider the wording to be entirely happy in that resolution, because if we are to swear here that there will never be an accident again, and the Chamber of Deputies wishes that we should be tasking the Ministry with tasks that regions and regional crisis crews and water management are all things that do not make a little bit of sense. But you agreed to this resolution without studying it properly, relying on the petitioner who read it to you. And you had him in the system for a long time, feel the conscience of who looked at him and knew what he was voting on. So I want to point it out. And as for the development of the situation, I don't know if you've read in today's press that, based on - probably - the pressures that are being medialized, he committed suicide at the waste water treatment plant of the undertaking concerned, which is suspected of this activity. Therefore, I constantly appeal, consider a few words, consider the pressure that is going on, and let's give a little bit to the law enforcement authorities that are saving it, let's give the environmental authorities the authority to investigate these matters properly, and then, after getting to know the results, we've taken some pressure, some resolution, some issues related to it. It is in the running and I do not have the authority to intervene as a legislator in matters in the running and to interfere with this possibility of examining this matter properly. Therefore, the KSČM club abstained from this vote. It's not that we don't think the situation on the Bečva River is serious, because when a leak like this happens once, it's an accident when it happens twice, it can be a coincidence, but three times, it really isn't normal if I use this folk expression. I therefore expect some fundamental changes in the crisis management of the region, the Zlín Region under which it falls, the adjustment of the crisis plans and the resolution of these circumstances, so that these issues do not recur. But it's all in the running, and I'm sure we'll find out soon enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-003-489.u9	Thank you. Just to explain how it is with the Rules of Procedure. The debate could only be opened if a member of the Government spoke before the final vote. Since this was not the case, we did not open the debate. Now only those who have priority rights can report. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-003-489.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, fellow Members, I must confess that after the two hours of intercession, when I left the Chamber for a moment, I was confused by the signs where there were three entries to the debate, so I thought I would still be able to speak in the debate. That's my fault, but then I don't want to face any criticism that I've avoided commenting on this point, so I'm going to take advantage of my priority right and I can get off that point. So I respect what the Vice-President of the House said, that my speech does not open the debate, but only a few words. Of course, I said what I could say at the last hearing. Since then, of course, there has been a lot of information from the media, or true or less true. Anyway, I don't have to change the line at my show. I want to make it clear that the police are working on this case, working very intensively on it. Of course, the SA's supervision is ongoing. [[11.30 hours]] I do not deny that, at the beginning, there was not exactly ideal communication between the various components, but this has also been corrected thanks to the intervention of the higher members of the prosecutor's office, and now cooperation should be smooth. It is still true that the police have provided a number of evidence in the investigation. It is likely to be said that the materials were provided in different places and in different subjects. And now the key thing we're all waiting for is that expert opinion. I said here last time that the deadline is 20. 12. I was assured yesterday that, based on the work progress of the expert opinion, the term should be respected. So I am convinced that if nothing surprising happens, it will be possible for the 20th to proceed with further investigations and criminal proceedings, possibly based on the results of an expert report by the police. So I want to underline again that no one is sweeping this thing under the rug, no one here at the police or the state's attorney's office is under any kind of pressure. The only one in the quotation marks pressure, and please take this with the reserve, is that we all publicly declare and declare that we would like it to be examined as soon as possible, however, as I said last time, the processing of expert opinion due to the scale of the disaster and the number of samples and other things that have been secured simply takes time. So I'm convinced and I believe it's about 20. 12. the law enforcement authorities will be able to provide more detailed information, or there will be some shift in their conduct. However, this depends on the expert's opinion on how it will be processed. So much for me. I considered it my duty to inform you in this way, however I understand that I could no longer influence your vote in the resolution that was adopted by my speeches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-003-489.u11	Thank you. Minister Brabec will now speak with priority rights, then President Markéta Pekarová Adamová. I'm just reminding you that we're not even at this point, we're among the points and we're the ones who have priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-003-489.u12	Thank you for that. I'm gonna follow up on the Prime Minister's speech and the Home Secretary, Mr. Hamáček, and I'm just gonna tell you the actual development, because it's all gone down here. It was our last session, of course, since then things have evolved again. I've been to Valachian Meziříčí twice in the meantime, yesterday and Friday last week. Yesterday, as you know, there was another leak, I also say unknown substances - not dangerous substances, unknown substances. And I can tell you, however, that they have fundamentally shifted from the four leaks, where in three cases they were defective substances, harmful substances, in the first cases cyanides, in the second case nickel and in the third case nitrites, in the second and third case nickel and nitrites, according to our information, there are already a number of administrative proceedings with specific companies from the Tesla Rožnov complex. [[Things?]] There was also a confession, or the groundskeeper claimed it, that the two leaks came from them. That means that from the four leaks, two are already in some kind of administrative procedure. The Minister of the Interior commented on the first one, where the police are also saving it with the supervision of the state's attorney. And that fourth leak yesterday, I say again, from the same channel, i.e. from the channel that runs from the Tesla Rožnov area, even in this fourth case, samples were taken there, sent to the labs, and we should have the results in a few days. We met with the representatives of the Zlín Region several times yesterday - there was the Deputy Minister for Pirates, only for control, if you did not believe the YES movement, so I believe that you believe at least your people - so there was Deputy Minister Ančincová for the Zlín Region, Deputy Governor, and we completely agree, among other things, that the Zlín Region must develop maximum activity in the sense that she currently has an open permit, or administrative procedure for authorising the discharge of waste water. There's a caretaker's request. The Zlín Region, of course, is preparing for checks, and again I say, controls in all companies, including Deza. We also informed yesterday that there are inspections in 15 companies, including the Tesla Rožnov complex, including Deza, where inspections have to be carried out on inspection since 11 November on the basis of an investigation. So that's within the 15 companies. But it was clear that if we had some specific leaks from a particular channel, clearly documented, that's the fourth case, and I say again, three times the excess damage in that last case, I don't want to evaluate it because we don't yet know what the substance was, so yesterday there was clearly an agreement with representatives of the Zlín Region, there was also Mr. Mayor of Wallachian Meziříčí, at Friday's meeting were representatives of firefighters, basins, fishermen, yesterday there were fishermen again. And I would like to say, contrary to what we talked about last time, that I proposed, in the meantime, first of all, that together with the Ministry of Agriculture, we will prepare another amendment to the Water Act, where the penalty will be greatly increased from 5 million to 50 million as sanctions. Furthermore, there will be precise interventions of individual components, because there has been clear evidence that water authorities do not have such human competence in a number of cases, or also the capacity to cope with such large states, whether they are ORPs, or whether they are regional authorities, whether they are firefighters. The firefighters have made it clear that they would like to better follow up on the Integrated Rescue System Act. In addition to the amendment to the Water Act, we agreed to process monitoring of all discharges, not only on Bečva, because many of them are not documented today, but on all major flows of the Czech Republic. That is what I think will be a major shift, and that is what we will be doing with river basin businesses. Also, that we will install Bečva's pilot project, actually through continuous water monitoring, water sampling and water monitoring, that should take place in the coming months, and we have already agreed with the Research Institute for Water Management, and we have arranged a number of other things. I mean, it was a complete match to all the files, to the fishermen, to the integrated rescue system, to the local or regional authorities, to the Moravia basin and to the others who met there. So that's the development since then. And I'm going to follow up on the Home Secretary, and I want to make it clear that there is absolutely no one, anyone, who is burying anything. I'm really sick of what's coming. There's a new investigative hypothesis coming up every day. There are parallel investigations in different diaries, I don't want to name them. On the other hand, I can assure everyone, or I can assure everyone that we are dealing with everything, even though I can't say it for the police, but I'm sure he's also following the information, and since there's a number of companies running an ongoing investigation, and of course there's going to be some other findings in them. So the idea of someone doing something here, some kind of conspiracy to cover their tracks, is really incredible. And what happened yesterday, that crazy event, I also recorded it from the media, about this person's suicide, I just consider it incredible, and I'm terribly humanly sorry. I'm just saying what's really going on around here, and I'm starting to follow up on what the Home Secretary said so that we can really be careful with these comments. I have full confidence in the Police of the Czech Republic, in the law enforcement authorities, and there the other things are clearly continuing. And if we're talking about four incidents today, I repeat that two incidents are already in administrative proceedings, one is investigating the police and should have expert opinions by 20 December. And the last one, yesterday's leak, I believe, in the horizon of tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, or I think in the next few days, we'll have some concrete information as to whether it was a dangerous substance, but it doesn't look like it yet. So far, it looks like it wasn't a cyanide-type substance or something. And if there's another discharge coming up again, another scenario where we're talking about it for a month, there's some sophisticated scenarios going on about how it might have been with the cyanides, and suddenly there's another scenario, cyanides are forgotten, and we're going on this line, so please, that's exactly a reflection that apparently somebody doesn't trust the police. [[11.40 hours]] The police hired an expert to do it. These connoisseurs are the ones who should judge all the variations, whether it could have been this way, whether it could have been harmed in one way or another. Otherwise, it really seems a completely absurd situation to me, but of course I totally agree with the public that we all mind that the culprit is not known long ago. It's a complicated case, and we all very much wish it was clearly marked as soon as possible and then held accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-003-489.u13	Thank you and we will proceed in this way: President Markéta Pekarová Adamová will now speak with priority rights, then with priority rights representing President of the KDU Club Mr Benešík, then Deputy President of the Pirate Club Mr Černohorský, then President of the KDU Marian Jurečka. Let me just remind you that for 12.45 hours we have a fixed item contract between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Senegal. Of course, I will not open that point until there are no co-workers and colleagues with priority rights. Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-003-489.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that the Minister did not appear here earlier, which would allow the other Members to return to this point and discuss more, because it is true that a number of other things have appeared during the few weeks that have elapsed since the last meeting of this point here in the House. It didn't happen, so at least in this form. You, Minister, mentioned that you believed the police. I trust her, and I trust her, in particular, in that statement which has just taken place after that last discussion of this point in the House, when she refuted your lie about perhaps not allowing you to comment on the matter, committed you to secrecy. I would expect you to comment on this in your own words, too, and to clarify why you are here on this microphone not only to our Members, but to the entire public in this matter, or whether you continue to insist on this statement, and thereby signaling us that we should not trust the police in this particular charge. So in the shadow of this information, which was clearly published by the police soon after you accused her of giving you the silent treatment, you can't wonder that not only us, but the public, or a large part of it, believe that she can't trust you in this case, because it's one of the many lies that appear in it. This is yours specifically. I'm not going to mention a spokesman for Agrofert Hanzelka, who, a few hours after the disaster, or a few days after the disaster, when information about cyanide appeared, said that Deza was not handling cyanide at all. Your subordinate organization Czech Environmental Inspection in response to several of my questions, which I also asked on the Environment Committee, and subsequently sent them to them in writing, confirmed to me that Deza is handling cyanides. This is one of the other concrete evidence that many untruths appear around this case, many lies, not from journalists or those who care about the examination, but also from you and the state authorities, especially from those who fall under the Ministry of the Environment. Then it is no wonder that even those cases that are at the last moment, when there are further leaks from the channel in question, to which particular attention is to be drawn to be taken away from Deza, so many do not believe that it is not just a homing dog, that many believe that it is really about covering the tracks here, to draw attention, and therefore consider you to be who instead of defending the real examination and defending the environment, which is the function you have been holding here for several years, so they consider you as the one who, in particular, helps to sweep the tracks for the benefit of the culprit. That's just the way it is, that's the opinion of a large part of the fishermen concerned, who are the main victims. And I could compose a whole series of other specifics here that don't fit in those versions of stories that you're presenting, which are weird and where there's been, like, a failure. And it's just a question of whether the failure, which was some kind of skandy, non-compliance, or targeted failure. That's probably the subject that's really going to be investigated, and I firmly believe that it is, and that we're going to find out if this is a systemic error or whether it's an individual error. But the fact that you lied in this case, and even here in the case of this point, you should light up on the microphone again, and not here try again to just develop the whole thing as it is your custom.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-003-489.u15	Thank you. Mr Ondřej Benešík, Mr Lukáš Černohorský after him. Mr. Benešík has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-003-489.u16	Thank you for the floor. Just very briefly. I think that the resolution that I have read here, which was the result of the work of KDU-ČSL, ODS and Pirates, was completely balanced. We're not really trying to explain the case. It's obvious that Bečva may be enchanted. It's in my county, which is why I have an emotional relationship with it. And I don't care that there's just stuff going on that happens to me, that there's repeated poisoning. And even that resolution was in no way offensive. It's just that my point is, first, to investigate the matter, but second, to try to prevent similar situations from happening in the future. So don't take it from me as some kind of attack on someone, it's really not. It is simply a matter of serious importance, and let us try to prevent similar situations from happening in the future. That's what it's all about. The fact that we find the culprit that the culprit will be found is one thing, but the other thing is - let's try to prevent similar situations in the future, because they are human health, human lives, the nature in which we live.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-003-489.u17	Thank you. Mr. Lukáš Černohorský with priority rights, then President Marian Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-003-489.u18	Thank you for the floor. I am also partially responding to Mr Luzar, who has been telling you through you, so that we know what we are voting on. I'm sure I know what I voted for. The point is, or at least, that point one, within which we called on the Ministry of the Environment, by order of the Minister, to draw up and discuss binding regulations to ensure a uniform approach to the investigation of accidents. Because at the time when this resolution was proposed, it was one fact that happened, followed by several other leaks from almost the same area. And, as the Minister has already admitted here, he is already preparing to change legislation, which is what the Committee on the Environment, if I am not mistaken, said at the time that there is no need to change the legislation, but today we have learned that they are already preparing the amendment. So from my point of view, this point made sense that at least the Ministry of the Environment will start preparing some legislative changes and other adjustments. I would also point out that on 4 November there was an environmental committee that wanted a little more than the resolution. It was there, for example. reducing reporting thresholds to an integrated register of pollution for cyanides, for example, or improving the system of searching in the system of recording contaminated sites. This is something that is not spoken of very much, but before 1989 - and this applies for example. The Moravian-Silesian region - was not treated to dangerous substances as it should. In many cases, it happens to us, for example. in Rožnov, that there will be a crack of some concrete tank, within which some dangerous substances are stored, because in the past it was used only by riding into one place, stored, watered with concrete and then did not touch it for 30 years. So, obviously, we're going to have some early negotiations on the funds to bail out these old environmental burdens, and it would be appropriate to work on finding them in the contaminated sites system, so that we're able to deal with it better in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-003-489.u19	Thank you. President Marian Jurečka, after him will speak President Jan Farský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-003-489.u20	Thank you. I welcome the fact that this debate is being held here in a rather constructive spirit, and I must say that even the resolutions that have been adopted, I think that they are really going to be able to produce satisfactory results for all those who are interested in this. And now, of course, it's up to the members of the government and their departments and the bodies that are interested in doing it well. On the other hand, it shows us about some of the more complicated moments that are here in the Czech Republic in this system, and let's say if something like this happens, for example, on Želivce, what would happen if something like this happened within the watercourse Vltava and so on, what would the resonance be. Here it is Bečva, which, say, is not so common in attention, does not flow through the capital, and then there is a need for everyone involved to know how to communicate the subject sensitively. I know that the Minister of the Environment on the Environment Committee said that he would slap for the tweet, or as you said, Minister, I don't remember it, but of course it creates different question marks when it is said very quickly, categorically, that someone will be excluded from it, and then comes the findings of journalists like the Journal Referendum, which may prove that in Deza some key procedures were obviously violated in terms of the fact that there are no functional safety mechanisms such as that some pressure valve is to be functional, is not functional, there is an open hatch where there is a fountain that ensures it. These are the moments that distrust the whole process and increase the enormous pressure of the public and of the rest of us to say and press on how the investigation is actually going on, if anyone is already voted out in advance, and then these moments will come here. The same from the point of view of the sampling methodology, which is also mentioned in the resolution, where there are great doubts that the samples simply could not be taken in time, quality, was then diluted from Bystrička. So it is very important that this is simply communicated openly, so that things are openly communicated as much as has been taken away, and not under pressure from the House here, it is said that on 20 December there will be some audit result from the expert, etc. So I'm very much interrogating for that. Because then, when we read what was on the News today that the employee of the sewage treatment plant will take his life in such a situation, it is then very, very difficult and difficult for all of us, because on the one hand, we want these things to be examined transparently, so that it really falls down to whom, so that maximum measures are made legislatively, so that it does not happen again, and on the other hand, we are in a situation where it also has direct effects on human lives and families by taking such great unnecessary pressure. If the whole story of this accident, or contamination, or repeated contamination, had been communicated openly, transparently and as much as possible, I think it would have been carried in a completely different spirit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-003-489.u21	Thank you. Chairman Jan Farský, priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-003-489.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would rather have my colleague, Petr Gazdík, come here because he is from this region, but he has become a bit of a victim of the game when the Minister instead of speaking at a time when he can open the debate and allow himself to speak to those whose subject it is, so he waited for the vote to take place and spoke after the others no longer had a chance to respond. It seems unfair. And it seems unfair to me like the whole Bečva thing. Let's look back. There were 40 tons of poisoned fish, poisoned river, and what happened? At the moment we were aware that someone did it, but Deza certainly didn't, which obviously had an effect on the authorities that were supposed to act at that time, and they just didn't act, they didn't do their job, the people who are paid in inspection to be in such situations - and how many such crisis moments have been in the Czech Republic - and they simply didn't react. Where's the sampling, where's the analysis, where's the trace in this case of the source? Nothing happened. The police didn't respond. no, she didn't react because the powers of this state told them it wasn't deza. And that's the trouble. And that's bad, and that's just being transferred to the entire public administration. And in this case, we can now say that the culprit is the Czech environmental inspection that didn't respond. But who's responsible for her? Politically responsible? Who swept it up in 2015 in a way that just became dysfunctional? It is you, Minister Brabč, who is responsible for her. You are responsible for the misinformation that has been released. You are responsible for how you influenced the investigation into this case. And that's why we said at the press conference on Tuesday that you should resign from your post, take responsibility for yourself, and just resign because you couldn't handle this at all. Now, after a few months, we can say what the investigative authorities are going to be like here, who's going to enter. That two more of the four leaks will be investigated as a matter of fact. Well, what about the first one? The biggest one you've had tested in a few hours has told everyone how clear it is, and deza certainly isn't, and all of a sudden it turns out that you just weren't telling the truth? And you weren't telling the truth even when you were asked for information, and you were talking about the police embargo that you couldn't say anything. And the police themselves - and I admire their courage, and I am glad for her that they still work like this in this state, and not everyone will get scared - just said that there is no embargo. Minister, your credibility is just at zero. And even if you save it in any way, by tagging any culprits, you'll never get rid of your personal political total failure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-003-489.u23	Thank you and we will continue with the next points. We should look at point 16, which has been interrupted by 1. 12. in the general debate, but we cannot address it because we do not have the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga. The next item is item 17, a government bill amending the law on criminal proceedings, and we cannot address this bill now, because there is no Minister of Justice Marie Benešová and no other member of the government is in charge. Furthermore, we should address paragraph 18, which is the Government's draft Digital Services Tax Act at second reading. We interrupted this point at the meeting on 17 September at the 58th meeting, but I cannot open this point either, because there is no Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and no other member of the Government is in charge. And so we get to point number
