ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u1	26. Government bill amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended /German press 503/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal will be made by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga. Minister, please take the floor. And ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to keep your voice down so we can hear the Minister's words. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly present the Government's bill amending the law on teaching workers. This bill builds on the Government's programming statement on the intention to strengthen the position of the school director as a manager, particularly in the area of human governance and the pedagogical process, and also to increase the involvement of experts from practice in teaching and the intention to address the burning problem of the lack of vocational training teachers in secondary vocational education. In particular, the draft law allows the school director to recognise for a maximum period of three years the presumption of professional qualifications as a teacher of general educational subjects at the second grade of primary school and secondary schools and graduates of any Master's degree programme. Under the conditions of vocational education, the Director will have the same power to recognise the presumption of professional qualifications for practitioners when their practice in the field corresponds to the nature of the subject being taught. This power and this proposal, if passed, strengthens the authority, but also the responsibility of the school head. It is always the director who, according to the school law, is responsible for the professional and pedagogical level of education and education services. By approving this proposal, the administration's need to demonstrate to the director that the school is actively seeking a teacher who already fulfils the prerequisite for professional qualifications will be reduced. The requirement to allow the Director to recognise for a transitional period the presumption of professional qualifications for teachers entering the school without going through standard - I note standard, and it will always be the main line on which we are going - that is, standard teacher training at the teaching faculties and faculties of teacher education, this proposal was discussed by Members and representatives of the expert public in the previous parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to decide on the basis of fresh data and hard data, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports carried out an extraordinary survey on the state of the teaching body in regional education at the beginning of 2019. The school directors themselves sent us the results both of which aprobation, how many teachers they lack, and at the same time their assumption and prediction of how this will continue to develop. The results of the investigation have shown what we think for a long time here and in complete nudity, and that the average age of teachers in regional education, where over 150,000 of them work, is relatively high and is 47.2 years old, while lower in kindergarten teachers, is over 45 years old. On the contrary, the highest among teachers in higher vocational schools, there is over 50. The investigation has also shown that more than 6,5 percent of teachers are teachers who do not qualify for professional qualifications under the Education Worker Act. To explain. Already at this moment 6.5 percent of teaching is provided by teachers who are in schools for exemption. They do not have the necessary pedagogical education according to the current standard and in some regions, and in those where we need those interventions in education to be as strong as possible, for example in Karlovy Vary, the proportion is almost double. This means over 13 percent of teaching is provided by unqualified teachers. And the principal, if he wants to take a man like that because he has to and wants to secure the teaching, he has to proceed today with the so-called exception. That means he's gonna take this guy for a while. In case a qualified person shows up, they must send him away regardless of how he teaches. At the same time, if we were talking about the degree and degree of education, that is, when a physicist teaches physics, math math, it is even significantly lower. In some regions more than 30 percent is taught by unapplied educators. So it may be good to admit that, in the face of the aging of the faculty and the worsening situation, it is appropriate to open a secondary channel to directors. That means those college kids who want to teach, so not that they're going to go there for an exception as they can today, they can take anybody for that exception today, and as I said on specific numbers a while ago, so they do, but maybe we should think more about the way that if someone wants to teach, then the director will look and see if he needs it, and if that person has the potential at all. At the same time, and this law brings about, the person has to do an additional pedagogical study within three years, while the school gets the funding for the teacher and the two-year adaptation period so that the novice can be dealt with. It's an improvement in our current state that doesn't please us. Of course, we would all like to be in the Nordic country system, that all teachers in the education system have full master's education and that the overpressure on teaching faculties, eight-, ten-fold, as it is in Finland, for example. But the situation here is not like that, which is why I am coming up with this proposal. If I go back to what those schools provided in that whole republican investigation, then teaching is done only - or only - in 82 percent of the cases. But as I mentioned in the Karlovy Vary Region, there's 70 over 30. Finally, the schools in the framework of the investigation also provided data on what teachers they were looking for, that is, and the outlook for the future. There is a great demand for kindergarten teachers, teachers at first grade primary schools. But that's not where this proposal goes, because, of course, we don't want to break the line to the smallest children. In higher degrees, schools mainly ask for teachers of mathematics, a topic that we have been discussing here for three and a half hours, English language, Czech language and literature, physics and teachers of professional subjects. Furthermore, the draft law strengthens the power of the school's head in the field of continuing education of teaching staff. Educational programmes for continuing education of pedagogical staff will not be accredited in the system of continuing education of pedagogical staff and the selection of appropriate educational programmes or other professional development activities for pedagogical staff will be under the authority of the school director. Lapidally speaking, nowadays, if the accreditation process specifically for those short courses includes 12,000 accreditations per year, then the control is only formal. It's the headmaster of the school who chooses whether this education is good or bad. Of course, the possibility to pay for this from other non-investment expenditures will be maintained, which means that it can be paid from the state budget. The draft law also regulates the requirements for the professional qualifications of a special teacher for the professional qualifications of teaching assistants. With the teachers' assistants, when we looked at the investigations, it turns out that after the first year of joint education, two thirds of them have secondary education, and most of them have just, I suspect, a 140-hour course. I think that given the problems that are at those schools, and those schools are calling for people to really be as professional as possible, it makes sense to talk within this law about the minimum scope of the course being higher than those 140 hours. This proposal, too, is contained there. Of course, this change will not affect those teaching assistants who have obtained professional qualifications according to the regulations in force at the time of their studies. It means, it's not something that doesn't get the alarm message back that someone or everyone who's in that system today will have to complete some new education. The draft law also lays down a minimum level of proof of the knowledge of the Czech language for pedagogical staff who have received professional qualifications in a language other than the Czech language and binds the qualifications of selected groups of teaching staff, namely free time teachers and vocational training teachers, with the law on verification and recognition of the results of further education. The essential novelty brought by the bill is the incorporation of the Institute of Adaptation Period of Early Teachers. I see this as an extremely important step. This will be a two-year period during which all schools will provide increased care to teachers who first enter the teacher's practice. For this care, schools will receive additional funding from the state budget, especially to appreciate the greater scope of the work that I have mentioned in teachers. I think that such projected changes certainly do not jeopardise the existing system, when the primary channel, I repeat, must be the channel through the teaching faculty and the faculty-educating teachers, and we are talking to the teaching faculties all the time about what the modern form of the supplementary pedagogical study should look like. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u3	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur for the first reading is Mr Lukáš Bartoň. I ask the rapporteur to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u4	Thank you for the floor. House press 503 government submitted to the House 7. 6. 2019. It's just an introduction. In fact, the Minister has already said a full summary, so I will just add that even in professional circles there is enough talk already about this law. In a positive response, I hear a response to the teacher and the adaptation period. In particular, early teachers need methodological help at the beginning that graduates are not actually thrown in front of the department, but they are helped at the very beginning when it is more complicated. [[17.50 hours]] I'm sure a heated debate will be about how, under what circumstances, they let college students go to schools without education. However, if the teacher they have here is not merely formal, but will actually present the teacher, it will depend on the director whether he wants to have this person in the faculty, so I think that this will be better and that the amendment of the law will allow people who can be good teachers to enter education, while the current text unfortunately is not helpful to the entry of people into education, de facto assumes that one wants to become a teacher at 17, 18, and therefore applies to the faculty of education. It's not like that. There are a lot of people who can be good teachers, but the road is not pleasant for them, it is not helpful for them, while this law, this amendment straightens it out. So much for the opening word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. Mr Martin Baxa is the first member of the general debate, Mr Mihola will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u6	Thank you. Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech on this proposal will be brief. Although I am a representative of the opposition party, in this case, I have to give my general consent to the government's bill that the government is presenting. I must state that since I am here for the first term of office, I have heard today the very critical views of colleagues who have already been here in the previous parliamentary term and who have pointed out how legislation has changed in recent years. That is, there was a time when the trend was the opposite and when it was actually being imposed on teachers to complement their qualifications relatively quickly, it was determined as a condition for them to continue to educate children, but the reality eventually showed that this condition is not long-term, and actually a proposal is now being put forward, which, let's say, is going in the opposite direction. I'm from Plzeň County. We have a very detailed investigation for both basic and secondary education in our region, not only in Pilsen, but also in the Pilsen Region, and I must say that as in our town of Pilsen, the situation is quite favorable, but in a number of districts of our region the figures are very alarming, that the average age of teachers of some disciplines, namely natural sciences, mathematics, informatics, is shown, and it also shows that teachers are simply missing in these areas in particular. And what the Minister mentioned here, from the inquiry carried out by the Ministry of Education, I think, last year these conclusions were published, so the figures are really alarming in some regions, especially in the Karlovy Vary Region. And as much as I understand that, in particular, teaching faculties are critical of this proposal, at this point, in my opinion, we have no other way than to teach those conditions in order to be able to teach at second grade primary schools and in secondary schools people who do not fulfil the current strict conditions for education, so it is absolutely necessary. Of course, this proposal does not mean - I am glad that the Minister mentioned this in his introductory words - that we would resign from the fact that the main schools to provide pedagogical education are teaching faculties or faculties of universities that have the conditions to do so. After all, I myself am a graduate of teacher education at the Faculty of Philosophical and Natural Sciences of Masaryk University, not purely that education at teaching faculties, and it is necessary to support these faculties, which generally educate teachers in the future. [[are:]] Of course, deans of teaching faculties or representatives of teaching faculties often use a very expressive evaluation of this bill. I heard at a seminar held by Mr Bartoň, a member of the faculty of education, who talked about this bill releasing the pond to the faculty of education, and it is actually expected that there will be no further need for education at the faculty of education. I am convinced of the very opposite, and I think that even in the future, the teaching faculties will be the main ones to prepare future teachers, but at least for this period, it is essential, in my opinion, that this bill should be adopted and that part of it legalizes the provision of education that does not have this professional qualification and that there is more room for teachers to be those who do not directly have pedagogical education. [[to teachers]] The debate will certainly lead to some other issues of this law, which institutions have the right to provide further education to educators in particular. Here I think that the Minister has put forward a proposal which is very restrictive in this regard, and there will undoubtedly be proposals that will modify this, but that is certainly the gros of the bill itself. And I would like to say one more thing. I am personally convinced that in some fields the situation will not be resolved even in the relatively near future. I know, for example, from the University of West Bohemia Pedagogical Faculty, that in some fields, such as mathematics, computer science, natural science, only units of students in those fields are successful, and that is far from all of them, of course, will be taught from them. So I am convinced that the problem, for example, with the lack of mathematics teachers, informatics, these disciplines, will be long-term, and that in this case there may also be a positive opportunity for those who may want to teach and have engineering education, to take advantage of their willingness at a time when there will be a long-term shortage of teachers who have education from teaching faculties. So I am certainly looking forward to further discussions, but I would like to conclude by saying that I am convinced that this government bill submitted by Minister Plaga is correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u7	Thank you and Mr Antonín Staněk and Mr Karel Rais have made a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, I really would like to respond briefly to the two things that have been said here. Of course, I am aware of the complex situation facing school directors, especially secondary vocational schools, in those vocational educational subjects. On the other hand, I completely understand the expressive expression of my colleagues from the faculty of education who see the opening of Pandořina's box in the bill. Of course, they naturally fear that this is the first gradual step to slowly, but certainly to start thinking about circumventing the university preparation of future teachers, because very often in society, opinions are expressed that, in a way, only a bachelor's education would suffice, etc. I just want to point out one thing. If you had a good look at the annual report of the Czech School Inspectorate for the 2018/2019 school year, this report talks about the high degree of failure of pupils in the graduation exams and the identification of the problems that have been identified. Among other things, it is pointed out that it is also a school where it is teachers who teach largely without aprobation. It is not enough to be a good teacher to be just a great expert. [[on top of that]] To be a good teacher, you have to have a certain amount of talent and then a large amount of teaching skills that really cannot be obtained within a supplementary study.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u9	Thank you. Mr Karel Rais, factual point. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u10	Thank you. I am glad that the opposition here, by my colleague Baxa's mouth, speaks positively about the proposal. Of course, I agree with that in the sense that there is a strengthening of the role of director as manager, and that is what we have always wanted, so these are definitely positive features. On the other hand, I perceive what Mr. Staněk, the previous speaker, said. And let me just say, I have some personal experience with the previous higher education law, where we've basically approved the MBA and these foreign study programs without accreditations, and the result is that any eseróčko from Horní Dolní is doing it. So I think we should discuss the issue of the accreditation of continuing education of pedagogical workers so that it is not completely thrown into the air, in order to catch up with everyone, I don't know, just some guy or a company who only cares about profit, but that we also have to care about quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u11	Thank you. It is Mr Jiří Mihola's turn in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u12	Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I appreciate the work of Minister Plaga. I agree with him on a number of things. And as you could register in the previous debate, I have stressed here that there is a need for a constructive search for the broadest possible consensus, especially for important school points. But, of course, this applies to other points. As for this draft law on teaching workers, I am, of course, critical and I have a different view, which I will now offer you in the following moments. You know, I've been a teacher for 26 years, and I've been preparing future teachers for 20 years, so I dare to feel that I have some puvoir to really express myself in a competent way, uncomplicatedly saying more competently than a number of people who may have had something to do with education, but I just think that it's a long time and that I've really gained some experience in that time. And I can see how we, on the one hand, conjure ourselves with quality, continuity, professionalism. We know the words well. Not long ago, a few tens of minutes ago, some here lamented how the quality of education is problematic, what the dog is buried in, we thought and discussed. And now all of a sudden, it may not look like it, but we're kind of pushing a wedge into the very quality of Czech education. Maybe a little unconscious. I'm gonna try to get it to germinate. First, let us realize that about four or five years ago, it can be accurately traced, the then government coalition has pushed through this House that the teacher must be qualified, which means he must have a university education in the pedagogical direction. This House, the previous government, two government parties are a government coalition today. Admit it's not too long. And I insist that the very worst for Czech education are the constant changes. So at one point, we decide that the teacher has to be qualified, after a few years, we figure out that it's not really that important. Let me say straight to the start that I consider this bill to be useless, that the current possibility of dealing with some possible critical situation that is actually happening is sufficient. Even today, the director has the opportunity to take an unqualified teacher. And it's happening. There's not quite a small percentage of those unqualified. It's just a fact. So I consider this proposal largely desperate and, above all, unnecessary. To add that we do, I don't know exactly now, because I've come across various dates that we're missing six thousand, but I've also met the number seven, or even nine thousand teachers. So you know - a big lie, a little lie and statistics. But it's still an alarming number. But again, colleagues, do you admit - did this happen yesterday or a week ago that we started missing hundreds or thousands of teachers here? I don't think so. So again, it's about really, really, whatever we're doing, considering the situation and not accepting something that contradicts reality, if that's what we're supposed to have a problem with. I really don't know if you're comfortable voting for a while, and then you're actually going to vote for something else. I don't mind. I don't mind. Not only as teachers, but also as politicians and MPs. And it was emphasized here and it is very often in the media and the model of Finland is highlighted everywhere. It's a curse on everyone. The school committee should be heading there this year after years, because it wasn't there until the past year. And I think Finland can be our role model. But the Minister himself stressed that there is simply no train going through the fact that the teacher must be qualified and must be a university of pedagogical direction. And it is linked, of course, to the prestige of the teaching profession and its salary assessment. Here I would like to say that I have asked the Parliamentary Institute, and it is now available, you have the opportunity to compare across Europe, as is actually the preparation of future teachers. All we have to do is really look into it, get a picture, so we don't go back to the Czech road so specifically, we'll eventually get dizzy. I would really stick to Finland's example when we're adoring it, so really, and not just when it suits us. Then let's keep an eye on the concepts. I understand that not everyone has to deal with pedagogical concepts when they have a completely different portfolio or education. But let's not confuse concepts like aprobation and qualifications. Those are different terms. As I said before, I consider the proposal unnecessary, because today the director has the opportunity to use the unqualified. And we must have known about the missing teachers in the last term. After all, it doesn't seem to me that we would act as if, as the people say, we had a tow up our ass, with forgiveness, because the proposal is on the table, as far as I know, at least since autumn. So if something was burning so badly and we had to catch up to it, I would have assumed that the government coalition would have given it priority, and it would have been discussed sometime in October, if not before. The important thing is that enough teachers do not de facto address this proposal. I doubt very much that there will be any wave of altruistic experts from practice who, for a noticeably small amount of money, will go to schools where they will be waiting for all sorts of pitfalls, which they will not be able to count on. You know who was ever in primary school for a while, just for example on some field trip, or he went to see a colleague, so he learns from him, or he can see it with his own eyes, or he can hear from his children that the teacher often raises there more, or he has to make these kids feel better, and then he has to educate them. So it's not just that he's an expert, but that he has to have this know-how, hand it over, and even the access to them, so that the pedagogical or educational process can be realized. [[18.10 hours]] And if we resign from qualification at a time when on the other hand, we're saying that our level is falling at virtually all levels of school, it's a fundamental mistake. The lack of teachers is elsewhere. Even in neighbouring Austria, teachers are missing. Even in Germany. Let us not take an idealistic picture that this is just a Czech problem. Definitely not. But I refer again to the material of the Parliamentary Institute - the need for qualifications and the expertise of pedagogical education is highlighted across European countries. I am talking above all about Western Europe. And from a completely different keg, and I don't want to have a debate in that direction, I'm just gonna mention the word inclusion. How does Czech education affect? An inclusion. That's another problem a teacher has to deal with at school. And once again, if he is not educated in pedagogical, psychological, and otherwise, it will be a problem for him, because of course it is also a problem for many experienced teachers. And then we can compare it to other professions. If we put it that way by analogy, we also know that there is a shortage of doctors, different ones. I don't want to get in their business, but we know that many doctors are missing. So, shall we resign to the fact that a doctor must be fully qualified and fully educated? Would you just go to a doctor who says, "I'll get it done"? Or am I a healer now, but I'm already, like, remotely or in a reduced form, some year under the guidance of an experienced professor, I'm gonna catch up so I don't cut your arm instead of your leg, or somewhere else? How about a driver like that? Do we know that undoubtedly a lot of drivers who only have group B can drive a tractor, maybe a truck or a bus, or would dare to sit in a locomotive, so we say, "if there's a shortage in this profession, he'll somehow make it"? I think it's wrong to resign. And let me give you my personal example. I have spent many years in tourism and have been a guide mainly in the 1990s, both domestic and all over Europe. They didn't have to be so-called back then. Guide exams. It wasn't mandatory, so I managed without it on a very decent level. In 2001 at the GO and Regiontour fair I managed to win a national tournament, I also received such a diploma, TOP Guide 2001, I went to England for it, Oxford. And yet - I do excursions, even as an educator I have done dozens, dozens of different excursions, trips and so on and I am doing it today. Now imagine, when I said - well, now they've introduced the need to have a certificate guide. I'm saying, please, I'm a graduate, state's, history, geography. I've been here for many years, my parents had a travel agency. Grandfather was a master of tourism and the first master of tourism in Slovakia when it was introduced as if novium. So I had all the prerequisites, I said, I could teach you there. And they told me that I didn't, that I had to finish my exams to get my certificate. So, with the tourist guide, I was forced to sign up for the exams that, as I say, I was able to teach. And it seems to me that it's a much, much lighter caliber than teaching whether it's primary or high school, or any degree of school. So I'm just giving it as an example of an imbalance. Resignation to that qualification will certainly result in further failure to address the teacher's salaries. There will be an argument and the public will see it this way: for the teachers are not even qualified, so why should they have more money? And please, of course I also know that certain individuals are gifted by God, they are teachers from birth, that they will really be great even without college, without anything, and they can pass it on with children and they can pass it on, but they are individuals. They're individuals, let's not make a big deal out of this, please. If - I have made it quite clear that I do not agree with the proposal - but if the proposal still passes through the House, it is necessary to insist very much that the unqualified begins to do the qualification immediately. Such a promise that within three years he will finish something - I wonder who then, what strength, what control he will then fly, chase those people, especially when a shortage in certain areas can graze. I think we should have an active and constructive approach right now, and I am not just talking about teaching faculties, I am talking in general about faculties preparing future teachers. These are Faculties of Science, Philosophy and others. So I can imagine a model, if a teacher is missing, let him teach four days and study at the same time. After all, we have various forms today and, above all, combined studies, various possibilities, which is more about goodwill, and can be fully qualified. How do you want to motivate a student who will be there for five years of his life doing various exams, practice, sucking in knowledge with the fact that he will actually be completely on it as well as the one who will chasing it then really in some very shortened form? Again, I'm sure there are exceptions that somebody will study God knows and not be gifted, can't do it, doesn't have a relationship with students, and others will do without the school. But let's not get out of this. Let's get off well-educated, with a relationship to children and qualified, and unqualified. So who's gonna be better? I have, of course, discussed this matter with colleagues in practice, in primary schools, in secondary schools, with the directors of these schools. Especially in South Moravia, where I move most. One of those directors, I'm not going to name it, but I really go to a number of schools, so I could say a lot of names here, and he supports the view that he can imagine the most change in the fact that anyone applying to the studio can then be seen as qualified. And not if they go to school, maybe even failed experts. Because you don't get to go to school well paid by experts. They'd be very bad for pay. This will take many years, and there will be a lot of water in Vltava before those salaries will be enough for an expert from practice to say: I am going to school because I am convinced that I will do something for this country and its children. So after consulting with experts who worked at the Ministry, for example, or working there, I also asked for opinions, so I conclude that the current situation is sufficient. To open system education to people with only dépée is the devaluation of pedagogical study. There's a risk of people coming in without education priorities as a profession. Because how do you control it, how do you separate those who are really interested? So let's not believe that even an experienced director understands everything and that he X-rays everyone with a glance and recognizes - it's really not that simple. Moreover, today the director is often more manager than teacher, I would like to emphasise. The question of the salaries of both teachers and the solution of teaching faculties will be postponed, because it will actually go without them. [[18.20 hours]] And when it was mentioned here that actually it would be enough then maybe the bachelor's study. You know, it's been a while since teaching faculties really became teaching institutes, it wasn't even a college. It wasn't a good time. It didn't help at all. And do you have any idea how this education is going at the faculty today in those two levels? In a bachelor's degree, that teacher gets expertise if I take an application for, like, a Czech mathematician or history-geography, in those fields. He will become an expert in these subjects. But he's doing the field didactics and related stuff in that follow-up master's degree of study. So from the point of view of the teaching, teaching know-how about handing them over, it's actually very important the master's degree. We can't just resign from him. So, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to take a real look at these materials, if you can, from the Parliamentary Institute, and to think this through, before we have to change or move on after a few years, or we will say yes, we want to have it as in Finland, but it is strange that it is completely different than in Finland. Seriously, you can't just take something out and resign for the next one. As in Finland, as in Finland, let us not curse ourselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u13	Thank you. The following are two factual points. Minister Plaga and Minister Bartoň. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u14	Thank you for the floor. I don't want to get this debate into the same format of the seminar, the times of Cimrmanovsky, as at the previous point, but it still doesn't give me a few things that fell out here. Yes, we call on Finland, and at the same time I said in my speech that in Finland it is an attractive profession in the long term, so pressure is already at the entrance to the Faculty of Education. There is a six- to ten-fold overhang of students in teaching faculties. It's a first-choice study. If it really was here and it was that long-term, we wouldn't be dealing with the problem of a lack of teachers coming down the classic path. But what is really a comparison that limps on both legs, and I think it's a deliberate foul, and I'm sorry about that from your side, the analogy to that doctor. You said yourself that there is a possibility today, and I said specific numbers in my opening act. And the specific numbers say that in some regions more than 10 percent of teaching is solved by people who are there for an exception. By exception, you can take anyone there without a higher education and put them in that system. So you don't have a comparison with a doctor in our medical system, so I sure hope you don't. Thirteen percent of the people who came from the street, and the director of the hospital, even if he's not a doctor, can put him there for an exception. There's a big difference! This means, in that situation, when you have doctors in hospitals, so fine, but at the moment you yourself admit that people are moving in that system, and there are not enough of them who are unqualified, directors do not receive support for the teacher or for the whole adaptation period, and there is no condition that the person has to complete his pedagogical studies, supplementary pedagogical studies. So the law is improving the current state of affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u15	Sorry, time's up. Mr Bartoň, who is rapporteur for this point, is a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u16	I'd just like to say a stand for the pirate party. We support this proposal, on the contrary, we think that these conditions could be even more free than they are designed to be, but I understand the pressure from the teaching faculties and the teaching fields. However, in response to the previous speaker, I would like to reject the claim that we are letting anyone into education and there will be an apocalypse. These people are already there. We are in need of teachers, and many directors take anyone who goes by just because he's 18, and we just need educational experts there. And the moment we start working with this expert on his pedagogical education, the year after that comes a fresh accomplice, and we, the person we work with, who may have started the teaching or DPS study, must be released by the director and must accept an unknown person who knows nothing, but who has a proper study. So this proposal says, "Let's have a teacher present accompanying him who will help the person, and this time we'll give the money that it won't be a formal thing, we'll help the professional from practice to become a educator, to graduate, to do the pedagogical minimum, and for that period of three years the director doesn't have to write a tender for his position. This also gives him some stability that he will actually finish his pedagogical minimum.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u17	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mrs Melková, two apologies. Mr Marek Výborný apologies from 18.15 a.m. to the end of today's meeting for family reasons and Mr Jiří Bláha also apologizes for work reasons from 18.20 to 19.00 a.m. from today's meeting. Mrs Melková, with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've already come to express myself. Mr Mihola through Mr President, it is, of course, his task for the opposition to go against government proposals. I fully respect that, but I would really like to show my support for the Minister and the Government's proposal. For one thing, we need to address this situation where we really lack educators and quality educators, and we need to overcome this situation somehow. Furthermore, I would also like to share my personal experience in the cultural environment, because this practice is actually being practiced in the cultural environment today and every day for years when artists, experts and authorities in their field are, although they often do not really have a teaching education, but they really are the authority in the school, they pass on their experiences, and I think that it is just a great benefit for both children and the faculty, and for directors, and for the whole atmosphere at the school. So I would not reject this proposal in any way just because it is really necessary to lift up the tradition of teaching workers and teachers so that they are back where we would like to have them. So I definitely support the government proposal, and not only because I am a member of the government party, but also because this practice is very well known from the cultural environment and works there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u19	Thank you. The President of Michálek is next, with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, given that this is an essential matter concerning the functioning of schools in the Czech Republic, and given that I think it would be a good idea for us to finish this discussion now that we have already discussed graduations, and I think it would be inappropriate to hold the debate again the following day, so after consulting President Faltýnek for YES and Vice-President Černochová for ODS, I propose that we discuss this point and vote on it today after 19 o'clock. So this point would end today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u21	Thank you. There has been a procedural proposal that I will put to the vote. So I have summoned all those who are not in the O.R. to appear. At the same time, I hear there's a request for a check-out, I've checked you all out. Log in again with your voting cards. We will vote on the proposal, as President Michálek put it, so that we can finish this item today and also vote on it after 7:00. I'm asking everyone to sign in, you've been logged out. I think we're ready for the vote now. So I'm taking the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 122, registered 126 Members, for 104, against 7. The proposal was adopted and we voted to complete this item today, i.e. the first reading of this point, even after 19 o'clock. Before we go any further, I'll hand over the meeting proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u22	Have a good evening. So we'll be discussing after 19 o'clock until the completion of this point, in terms of content. Because there's been a discussion here, so this point will be completed. I'll read two apologies. Mr Martin Kupka apologizes for today's meeting from 18:00 to the end of the day for working reasons and Mr Špičák apologizes from 18:40 to the end of the day for family reasons. Now, therefore, factual remarks in the general debate. So, Mrs Jana Černochová and Mr Jiří Mihola will be prepared. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] And I will ask you to remain calm in the Chamber so that the Member can express herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u23	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to respond to Mrs Melková through you. In fact, here we are in a situation where you are defending your government's proposal against your government's proposal. Because unfortunately this restriction that appeared there appeared during the era of ministers under the ČSSD, when YES was part of the previous government. Well, that's just so we can really say the same thing to each other here. As far as the rapporteur is concerned, I would like to confirm his words. Since the directors really have to, I don't want to say bypass the law, but in order for anyone to teach at all in our schools, the procedure is as follows. An ad will be posted that a teacher is looking for fulfilling all these regulations. The teacher will not be found, not one candidate will enter the tender. The Director will create this ad in case the school inspection comes to document this, and he will find the educator who should complete his education within three years, so he will find it as he can. But of course, exactly as it was said here, these people also want to know what awaits them. They won't live day to day. Because, of course, many of you are educators here, so you know it's a profession that's lifelong. The Civil Democratic Party will support this proposal, and I just want to remind you that I have a little déjà vu, because exactly what is being said here to defend the proposal of Minister Plaga, we said here years ago, when the members of the then government coalition voted otherwise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u24	Thank you. I will now ask for Mr Jiří Mihola's speech and also prepare for the de facto Minister Lubomír Zaorálek. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u25	Thank you. I thank my colleague Černochová for actually saying for me the first part where I wanted to point out that we really should be aware that some coalition - not some particular coalition - has made a point here in the last parliamentary term, and now it is actually opposed to two sides of it. Well, that's a little surprising for me. Otherwise, I'm very friendly with you through to a colleague of Melková. I am really the last person who would like to define himself or who would play it in school matters as a coalition of the opposition, when I have just stressed here, let a broad consensus be sought. Finally, I support the issues of removing your math, the proposal of your Minister Plaga. So it's a specific example that I understand. But here I dare say, given my expertise, I have to get back to you. It's probably logical and understandable. And I wouldn't talk about improving the situation here. Okay, I would understand if the Minister used words like legitimization or resignation to deal with it in some other, better way. I think there'd be ways. You know, we promised teachers a salary that goes up 15 percent, and that's 8 percent. So if we were to keep those promises, the profession would be more attractive, and it would certainly be a more constructive solution. Likewise, if, after years of declaring that we would support those faculty-educating future teachers, we would really do that, well, the prestige of the teaching profession and its search would certainly increase as it is in Finland, where teachers have the third highest salary for doctors and lawyers. In conclusion, just a question. If there's a suggestion that he'll complete his pedagogical education within three years, I'm asking - what if he doesn't? What if he goes to another school and doesn't finish?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u26	Now, on the point of fact, Mrs Kateřina Valachová, so far the last application. The Minister has withdrawn, so please take your word for it. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u27	Mr President, fellow Members. I will only briefly respond to Mrs Jana Černochová through you. As regards the requirement for teachers and teachers to have a university education, because that is the point, it was a thing that was repeatedly postponed - I hope to be at least a bit accurate - from 2005 to 2015. It's been ten years. I mean, the demand that teachers and teachers have higher education or governments other than social democracy, for example, the Civil Democratic Party, if they had government responsibilities, does not come to an end. That's all. And, of course, I will express myself in more detail in my contribution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u28	Thank you and now back to - or we will continue with standard applications in the general debate, so Mr František Vácha. Mrs Tereza Hyťhová will be ready. Please take your word for it, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear government, I can calm you down, I won't speak for long. Unlike my colleague Mihola, who is a graduate of the Faculty of Education, I am a graduate of the Faculty of Science. To Mrs. Melková. I don't think this is a coalition dispute - the opposition. Here we are - and for our club I can say that we are here to support the proposal and support it. I have the feeling that this is a dispute between academic faculties and graduates of teaching faculties, who, of course, defend their home schools and fear that people may be more capable of getting into that education than what they produce. And I'm going to use my colleague Mihola's citation directly, given my expertise. I'm a university professor. So I haven't counted how long I've been teaching, but I also teach future high school teachers. Now, in this semester, I think I have 16 high school chemistry teachers I'm gonna teach. I'll teach them how to teach high school. And wonder for the world, even though we have an evaluation of lectures and I have an evaluation of lectures one, one and two in general, so I'm not allowed to teach in high school. At this point, even though I'm teaching teachers, I'm teaching them how to teach high school students, so if I go to high school, given the current law, I just -- of course, for some exception, the principal can take me, but he won't. Because of the law. [[18.40 hours]] I must say, my colleague Mihola here has said a lot of false or misleading information. He was talking about basic education. The law doesn't concern basic education. This applies only to secondary education of vocational, vocational subjects. He mentioned a bachelor's degree here that teachers would finish after a bachelor's degree. That, of course, is not at all the case in the law. I must say that if the law - and I therefore have several reservations or recommendations to the Ministry of Education. Of course, the moment the law comes into force, I'll be able to go to high school. And thanks to the fact that today money is given mainly to regional education and not to higher education - and I remind the minister whenever I can - so in 2021, university professor at our university or our faculty will have a lower salary than the average salary in regional education, so of course I can get people to walk from us - and thanks to this law they will be allowed - to start teaching high school, to complete their pedagogical minimum within three years and to teach in secondary schools. It's happening to us. It's happening to us with students that students do their pedagogical minimum during their studies, it's DPS, additional pedagogical studies, and instead of staying with us, they go to primary schools. So that's my expression of support for this law. There is one thing I do not agree with, and this is the DVPP - further education of teaching staff. The Minister mentioned that today, or under this law, the further education of teaching staff, he mentioned it also a colleague of the Rais, will not have to be accredited by the Ministry of Education. I understand that there were 10,000 applications a year, so they're supposed to just send them back and say they're just not gonna be, that it's just poor quality. And I, like my colleague Rais, fear that a lot of institutions or groups will prepare further education for teaching workers and it will only be a profit for them, they will only do it for profit, not for further education for teaching workers. And I'm afraid it'll slide to this. And I have one last thing, and that's the resolution of the Dean's Academy of Science Association, which supports and expresses support for this law. We met on March 7, 2019, which means almost a year ago, and we issued a resolution on the upcoming government amendment to the law on pedagogical workers, where the Association of Deans of the Faculty of Science supports the Government's proposal to amend the law on pedagogical workers and the efforts of the Ministry of Education to address the impending lack of quality teachers in regional education. And, as far as I know, similar resolutions or similar conclusions are made by the Association of Deans of Philosophical Faculties. So what I started out with, the way I ended up. You see, it's not a conflict of coalition - opposition, but it's more like it, and we're witnessing it here today, it's more like a conflict of the expert part with those teaching faculties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u30	There. Now I have three factual points here. So in order - Mr Antonín Staněk, Mr Karel Rais, and Mr Jiří Mihola, will be prepared. So I will now ask Mr Antonín Staněk to take action. Your two minutes. Please. And Mr. Karel Rais will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u31	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister of Education has asked Plaga here, by your means, that the debate that will be held here does not have the character of a Cimrmanov story. I am a bit disappointed not to say appalled and disgusted, because for the second time I have heard from the mouth of the previous speakers more or less contemptuous expression towards those who prepare future teachers at the teaching faculties. Looks like the only genius people who can prepare future teachers are at professional faculties. And the fight isn't about whether science schools, philosophy schools should do it. I will also talk about this in my contribution. But I would ask that we not be dehonested, because that's exactly what this is about. It's about how science schools, philosophy schools, get our students teaching faculties. Because basically they believe that didactics, whether in the field or in the subject, or methodology, that is, how to teach, can basically be taught by anyone. What's important is expertise. So please don't degrade us, who prepare future teachers at teaching faculties!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u32	Now the factual point, Mr Karel Rais, will speak and Mr Jiří Mihola will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u33	Good evening. I would follow up on what my colleague Vácha said here, because I actually agree with him on a number of things, and especially the danger of opening those scissors. I attended exactly the same discussion at the faculty yesterday morning, as it was outlined here. Simply, very briefly, that assistants, respectively. docents have lower salaries than the salaries they receive in secondary schools, and they are thinking very seriously about transferring in that direction. Of course, they're individuals. But the scissors are opening here. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u34	There. Now, Mr Jiří Mihola, on the point of fact, will be prepared for Mrs Kateřina Valachová. I have two applications so far. Please, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u35	Thank you. Your way towards your colleague Vách. I'm sorry to hear about the raids, because I think we're here to find a really constructive solution, not to jerk off our own ego. He's been training me from a distance about what the law is, so let the minister say for himself who it is or doesn't concern, who speaks the truth or the truth, whether it's clear who read it or didn't read it. First of all. Two. It should be said here that the whole situation is not related to the whole of the Czech Republic, that it is actually more critical in some regions, not by chance in some regions, but that would be for another debate, that is not enough to say now. And I would really like to hear the answer to my question, from the minister or someone competent: what if you did not complete the pedagogical education in question? And in case we're satisfied with this, we're going to deal with the situation in this simpler way, the motivation for one to get a five-year education qualification when it's easier to catch up with. What motivation will you please have? What's the difference between those people in the finals who will teach at school? And, of course, according to the reports of the Czech School Inspectorate, qualified teachers, i.e. those with a teacher's education, teach better than those who are unqualified. Conclusion of the Czech School Inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u36	Now, Mrs Kateřina Valachová, so far I have the final de facto here. Your two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u37	Thank you. I would just give some kind of polite recommendation that, ladies and gentlemen, we should not be present, therefore, as to who is an expert or who is a lobbyist of the Faculty of Education. That's really not appropriate. But I think that basically from the point of view of supporting this government amendment, there are actually two reasons. I would like to make it quite clear what the substance or purpose is. [[18.50 hours]] The first reason, and this is longer term, we listen to it in the media as well, in the House we Members here: we do not have teachers, this is to be solved, teachers educated and in some way they will complete their pedagogical education. That's the one way. However, in recent weeks I have registered that suddenly we are actually going back to this, and a little bit has indicated it here by your through Jana Černochová, when we refer to the fact that it is not okay to supplement, as has been said in the past, and I say it was a long-term thing, for teachers and teachers of university education. There I come across this paragraph, which today allows school directors and school directors to take another colleague on the exception, unless they have an educator with pedagogical education. Variant is a whole line. Of course, there is also a group of colleagues who taught until 31. 12. 2015. That's what I'm saying is that it's the other group and it's some second argument that's getting into this debate. I would like to make it quite clear what we actually want to solve, because I am not sure that this government proposal is dealing with what we might wish for. I'm also not sure it's fair to those really tens of thousands of teachers and teachers. In particular, I would mention kindergartens, because it seems to me that they were quite affected by this, that colleagues and colleagues in schools have to complete their university education repeatedly. They did an application for something, they had pedagogical full-time college, and then they had to go back to it because something changed, some section, some bureaucracy. So I'm just making a recommendation, let's get these two things straight. I see I've run out of time, Vice-President of the House, but you suffer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u38	Mrs Hyťhová Hyťhová will now speak in the debate and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will be ready again. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u39	Thank you for the floor. I would like to comment on this government amendment on teaching workers for our SPD movement. As has been said several times, the current situation in education is facing a lack of teachers. Teachers who often really enjoy their work do not do this work, either from a low financial assessment or from a lack of motivation to pursue this profession. This amendment extends the competence of school directors, who would also have the recognition of a teacher's professional qualifications in their competences. This would also improve the conditions for new teachers and also improve the position of director. These problems occur, as has also been said, often in secondary vocational schools, which focus on various technical fields. These are people who are experts in practice but do not yet have the necessary pedagogical education. Persons to whom the Director acknowledges the presumption of professional qualifications will be able directly to carry out pedagogical activities for a maximum of three years. If they want to continue working in the pedagogical sphere, they must complete their education. We believe that this step could attract at least a little bit of people who have an appetite and an interest in becoming a teacher and help our school system. Of course, we are not saying that this step will improve the situation completely, but at least a small step will certainly help this situation. On the other hand, of course, we do not want to reduce the level of education for our teachers, but we take this as one of the possible solutions to today's situation. The SPD movement highly appreciates and fully supports the work of our pedagogical and non-teaching staff, as well as other important professions. I absolutely do not agree with what has been said here about comparing the professional qualifications of doctors and the professional qualifications of teachers. I think that is absolutely not appropriate in this case, but on the contrary, I see it as one of the few steps that we can take to improve this situation. Let's see how the second reading is going to take place, so I hope it goes through the first reading today. Any changes can be made. I believe it will help our teachers and directors. That's all for us, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u40	Now I'm going to read the apologies that I've accumulated a little bit more here. Today, Mr Miloslav Janulík apologizes from 19 o'clock to the end of the sitting day for reasons of family law Olga Richterová apologizes from 19 o'clock to the end of the working day for reasons of work Radek Vondráček, further apologizes between 19 o'clock and midnight for family reasons of family reasons Mrs Helena Válková, further apologises between 18.30 and 23.59 o'clock for reasons of work Markéta Adamová and further apologizes between 19 o'clock and midnight for family reasons Mr Jan Řehounek. Mr Antonín Staněk will now speak in the general debate and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u41	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot begin but by saying that what we are experiencing in this school package today, I would like to call it a controlled, thank God it is not an unmanaged but dangerous and insidious devastation of the teaching profession. Again, the legislative process as a boomerang returns perhaps not intentional, perhaps merely unintentional efforts to degrade teachers' studies to Bachelor's or higher professional ones. As I pointed out in a factual remark, the bill opens Pandořin's box. Sooner or later, someone will come to say that if a three-year teaching minimum, a three-year further education of a teacher, basically a high school graduate would be enough to complete a simple course and teach his colleagues in high school. I mean, what more does he need to teach his former high school colleagues? And actually in elementary school, he's almost two, two and a half degrees behind him. I agree with what part of my previous speakers said here. That is, if this law goes into second reading - and I do not have the ambition to propose its rejection at first reading, I am in favour of discussing, discussing and seeking an ideal solution - then, of course, I will be very careful about the direction in which further education of teaching staff will be taken, which should therefore be part of the training to be accredited for adequate educational centres, so that there is no chance of passing on interesting business to various non-profit organizations, which will only improve their cash flow. But unfortunately, there was no answer, and I would very much like to hear it in second reading, if the law passes there, and I think it will pass, and that is how motivation will be given to graduates of the Faculty of Education, who have to undertake a three-year Bachelor's degree in vocational subjects, followed by a two-year Master's degree where they acquire competence and skills in the field of didactics, methodologies, and have to undertake a diploma thesis, defend a diploma thesis that they will be motivated to prepare at all. You know, it was said here that the deans of the Faculty of Science and the Association of Philosophical Faculties adopted a resolution with joy and enthusiasm in which they supported the bill. You know, I don't blame them. I'm the dean of the Faculty of Science or the Faculty of Philosophy, so I'm gonna support this law with all the intervention. I'll explain why. In addition to the fact that faculties are financed by various financial flows, that is to say, for certain activities they carry out, for certain scientific activities, etc., they are also evaluated according to the complexity of what they teach, so, for example, in terms of financial intensity, the preparation of future physicians is highly assessed, but for example, the preparation of a class historian is evaluated by a coefficient lower than the preparation in the teaching profession. That is why there is such a great interest that there are as many future teachers as possible at the Faculty of Science and Philosophical as possible, because they bring them some effective financial gains. [[19.00 hours]] As for what my previous speaker, a colleague from the Faculty of Science, has been talking about, it really doesn't make sense to wonder how and how long he's been preparing future teachers and whether it's better at the Faculty of Science or at the Faculty of Philosophy. I will not boast here either by preparing future teachers at the faculty for twenty years, that I have completed teaching activities in secondary schools, and that I therefore know what the fundamental difference is in the preparation when it is intended to combine both the professional knowledge of the teacher and the knowledge of the teacher. The faculty of education has a long-term problem of obtaining accreditation for the preparation of future secondary teachers. Basically, it is still a practice that teaching faculties are supposed to prepare teachers maybe primary schools, and we have now come to the conclusion that they really have higher education, and thank God they are also teachers in kindergartens and kindergartens, but if the faculty wants to ask for accreditation of secondary school studies, it must prove and prove that it has really experts who are able to prepare future teachers for the professional aspects of secondary school education. It is a good thing, because only a combination of these two things, which means professional and pedagogical skills, puts a man in the kick who will be competent and able to teach future teachers. But the process that is important - and when I spoke in one of my speeches with a factual remark about the fact that a quality expert may not be a good teacher, I just remind you that an important process in the whole educational process is the ability, the teacher's ability to transform it professionally, to choose it important from the expert and to be able to present it to the student in a way that he can understand. I myself have experienced a number of excellent teachers during my life who have not brag about having had any long professional experience at all. They were excellent, great teachers who were able to explain even the complex, very difficult material to the pupil. On the other hand, I was also lucky to meet a great professional who, on the other hand, had the bad luck that unfortunately his material, his professional art, couldn't bring pupils to us, and we just left the class to say that it was great professionally, but we didn't really understand it. Dear colleagues, there is a serious problem in schools and a report by the Czech School Inspectorate on the natural generation of educational choirs. This has also been said several times here. The interest in the teaching profession by graduates of teaching faculties is small and the school heads either accept unqualified teachers for so-called. exemption from the law, or employ, to a large extent, teachers of retirement age. However, we ask here in the Chamber of Deputies, what is the reason that graduates of teaching faculties are not interested in entering schools, are they not interested in really going to teach? We are wondering here in the Chamber of Deputies, are we not throwing out completely inefficient funds for the preparation of future teachers who are already talking to them during admission proceedings or during interviews that they will never be able to teach anyway? Maybe it doesn't seem like throwing away money, because preparing a teacher isn't as expensive as preparing a doctor, it's not as expensive as preparing a chemist or anyone else. But still, we're asking why is that? Isn't it because we're basically graduating from college just so that the graduate has a degree and then he can go to the state administration to be head of the Department of Transport because he has a master degree and then somehow gets it done? Do we really ask why young people do not want to teach? Of course, the one cause that was also mentioned here during today and basically during this parliamentary term as well as before is a financial issue. See how college graduates are funded in comparison with other higher education professions. It's shameful and undignified. Take a look at the position the teacher is in often in relation to parents, in relation to the public, and often in relation to the pupils themselves. Let's see what's on that teacher. When I started, the school teacher's administration consisted of a minimum of paperwork and, rather, that I could talk to the students, communicate with them about their life experiences, their problems and so on. Today, the teacher is overwhelmed by an enormous amount of administration. Not everyone has the stomach for it, not everyone has the appetite for it. There is a criticism of the comparison with the doctor. Yes, it's probably a bit limping, I agree with the Minister, but I'm sure there's no limping analogy with the driver. Even a student or a child who, from time to time, takes his father next to him in driving a car and then borrows it for a while, eventually he has to get the right driver's license. Let's take a look at the athletes. I've been through a whole era of fighting against coaching qualifications - because why? I mean, I've been a good player, I can practice. But there's a lot of knowledge, a lot of skills that this guy must have. From the field of physiology, physiotherapy and other things. I don't want to be a critic of the proposal the Minister is making here. I understand that this is the way he seeks to correct the current situation, which has grown into today's form for a long time. But definitely, and now I must say this openly, and I apologise for this, Mrs Melková, through Mr President, although we are friends, as flamingly as it was in her submission, I will certainly not defend the bill and I will very critically and very carefully follow its next journey through second and third reading so that really, please, the faculty of education is not completely out of place, because we may also see that time will be enough for some teaching academy or something or God knows what. And the last time I'm here - I'm done - he compared the doctor, there's one thing he has in common. When you talked about the need to raise the educational staff's pay for their work, you said very often how important, how exceptional, how extraordinary the teaching work is, especially in primary schools, where they actually work with children who shape, shape their personality, shape their view of the world, society, life. And I believe that the teaching profession is equally important. Because the teacher, he's not just an expert who comes to school and bounces the facts. It must also be a person who has empathy who is able to empathize with life, into trouble, into the misery of the child. And this will not be learned by continuing education of teaching staff within two or three years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u42	Now, one factual one, so Mr František Vácha and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will be prepared later in the general debate. So now we're going to put some space on a factual point. Please, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u43	Thank you for the floor. I don't need two minutes. I would apologize to my colleague Mihol. The law talks about second-degree primary education. That's one thing I wanted to say. And the second thing, about colleague Staňek, is the coefficient of economic intensity. The coefficients of economic intensity, through Mr President, were abolished in 2015. We're not going to keny anymore. Today, the college just gets some money from the Ministry, and internal regulations redistribute it. And he's in charge of college, how much he gives to the faculty. So the ken don't exist anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u44	Well, now I'm gonna ask... Mrs Kateřina Valachová, but I have you both standard and factual in the general debate. I don't know now. [[Mrs Valachová is reporting a word with a factual remark.]] Yes, but you're in line for a general debate anyway. So you can take it without a two-minute limit. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u45	Well, thank you, Mr President. I would just like to stand up for my colleague Staněk, through you to Mr Vách. Please, everyone who is a little interested in funding higher education, yes, we know that KEN, the economic intensity coefficient, has not existed since 2015. We also know with instruction that most universities are going on according to him. I mean, the principles. No one has the courage to change the fundamental principles of the 2015 KEN. So just to stand up for Antonín Staněk a little bit, that he didn't exactly say that he didn't, and I'd like to put it right. So KEN doesn't exist, but he's actually kind of alive. And that may be typical of our entire education and education system. My esteemed colleagues, my colleagues, given the time, I appreciate the fact that those of you who have remained in the debate on education until now, I will try to be brief. I have already mentioned that I am very keen to clarify what is really the aim of the amendment, because not only is the argument repeated in recent weeks, the original one, the solution to the lack of teachers, but also that perhaps the principle of higher education and the principle of exception, which I note, was introduced sometime in the autumn, I think, in September, 2014, to remind us. And now what really bothers school directors and school directors, especially in cities such as Prague, but in some applications such as mathematics, ICT, foreign languages, paradoxically even music education, in these subjects they have a problem in terms of citizenship, which is, of course, something other than unqualifiedness, directors and school directors in the territory of the whole Republic. Well, I don't think the government proposal is gonna solve this situation. Because, yes, we have a problem with the fact that we do not have a functional system of using the various adaptations, or relatives, that we do not have a complete system to motivate colleagues, such as what mathematicians are, to be willing to expand their application to physics, chemistry, to be real to them in terms of managing their normal work obligations, to simply have some space, to be motivated, to be rewarded for it. That's all true. But we are not dealing with this in this proposal. It is also true that we do not have the support of beginners. I very much support this part of the government proposal, and I would like to commend the Minister of Education, as well as the fact that this is included there. I'm sure I'd be happy to learn from the school committee, of course, how it will be done with the specific evaluation of the teachers who present it and how it will be financed. But this is a very good step. I also think that we have done, frankly, in the past, almost say together that not coalically or in opposition, together enough work to raise salaries and evaluate teachers and teachers. We have also introduced a successful programme to support pedagogical education at pedagogical faculties, which has even been reflected in the funding of pedagogical faculties, so it is not just a pilot. We have also massively increased the number of schools called faculty, and I could be here by morning, what we have done to support the teaching profession and we should do. But I would like to say that before we come to this, and the bill really allows the door to non-teachers, college-educated people, almost, I say it almost, to all degrees, because, despite the explicit possibilities that the law allows, then there are other, say, gaps that allow the penetration of such originally educated colleagues, but who are not educators, even to those other stages of the education system, which I would have said in the past is forbidden. As far as this is concerned, I would warn a lot about this, and I would rather suggest that we look in the school committee for a solution to what Mrs Černochová has indicated by your means. Because it really is true, it also sounds in those public debates, and that is the situation of colleagues and colleagues, but it is either those who taught before 31. 12. 2015 and in some way they still remain in the system, or let's say new colleagues who are really employed by the director or director, do not complete their pedagogical minimum or pedagogical education and are really in a situation, and the Czech School Inspectorate is really doing so, it is true that when a qualified graduate of pedagogical studies shows up at the school, the Czech School Inspectorate is doing it strictly so, the directors tell me a lot that they are asking this person to be employed from one day to the next, that is, the qualified educator. On the contrary, the colleague, a colleague, who provided for teaching, and I have no doubt that in a number of cases, he was dismissed. We need to figure this out. Please, let's solve this and not expand it to some new parallel system or method. As a legislature, I warn against it. The paragraph may not really be meant to be, but it could have these unintended consequences. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u46	So, and the last one entered into the general debate is Mr Václav Klaus. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u47	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, I won't delay either. All I'm going to say is that we in the Tricolor movement will support this bill, and we will support it at first, second and third reading. He's rational. I've been doing this for a long time. I would say a few main arguments about that. First of all, a few years ago, I don't know exactly, we didn't have a law like that. And the directors are acting on their own, and they're putting the most capable and educated people in the area behind the department. Every village director, when he has the opportunity of a tractorist or mathematics, puts mathematics in that school. And when he doesn't have anybody, well, then it's really hard and he's looking desperately for someone to be there in that class, and at least the teaching has some meaning, or he's taking it himself, and so on. The second thing is that it's just complete nonsense that a Nobelův Prize winner can't teach chemistry at the Upper Lower. Don't be mad at me. Even if he even teaches in the past. This really is paradoxical. The third thing is to remove a bureaucratic obstacle from the whole system that doesn't hurt anybody and make schools feel a little bit less comfortable with one rule. So much for our show, I guess. I don't want to be controversial. I was just very amused, but in a good way, colleague Staněk, who didn't let the law thread dry, that it seems like he's almost the worst thing he's ever seen, and then he said he wouldn't suggest it to refuse to discuss it. So here I would appeal very highly to you, we have a lot of valuable laws like trikolóra to take a similar position, even if it seems completely crazy to you, just so that you let it go to second reading to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-004-026.u48	There. Now I'll read the apologies. Mrs Taťána Malá apologizes from 19.15 to 21.00, the reason for this is the working session, Mr Dominik Feri until the end of the day for work reasons, Minister Adam Vojtěch until the end of the day for work reasons and Mr Rostislav Vyzula from 19.00 to the end of the day for family reasons. I'll see if there's any other interested parties for the general debate. I don't see anyone else, so I'm ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Mr. Minister, Mr. Rapporteur? You're not interested. [[19.20 hours]] We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering a proposal to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone, so we'll take the vote. I've got the song, so we're gonna wait a little longer. I think we're in sufficient numbers here. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 123. Registered 140 Members, for 116, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee and committees to discuss? I don't see a suggestion, so I'm done discussing this press. I'm interrupting today's agenda for the House of Deputies and I'll see you tomorrow at 9:00.
