ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u1	8. Government Bill on the Power of the Police of the Czech Republic and the Municipal Police to prosecute violations of crisis measures and emergency measures ordered in connection with the demonstration of the occurrence of SARS CoV-2 corona in the Czech Republic /German press 810/ - shortened negotiations According to § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. I'm opening a debate that I don't see anyone reporting to. If no one applies to the debate, I am done with the debate. [[15.20 hours]] We will proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government Bill on the Powers of the Police of the Czech Republic and the Municipal Police to prosecute violations of crisis measures and emergency measures ordered in connection with the demonstration of the occurrence of SARS CoV-2 coronavirus in the Czech Republic, House Print 810, in a shortened hearing." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 110, 99 Members registered, for 94, against none. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. So now I'm going to open this point. I merely recall that, under the gentlemen's agreement, factual remarks will not be applied, but they cannot be denied under Section 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I hereby open a section of the Government Bill on the Powers of the Police of the Czech Republic and the Municipal Police to prosecute violations of crisis measures and emergency measures ordered in connection with the demonstration of SARS CoV-2 coronavirus in the Czech Republic, House printing 810, shortened negotiations. Jan Hamáček, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister, will state the bill submitted. Minister, please take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u2	Thank you. Hello. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, allow me to introduce a draft law on the jurisdiction of the Police of the Czech Republic and the municipal police to prosecute violations of crisis measures and emergency measures. The police of the Czech Republic and the municipal police in their activities reveal violations of the ordered measures, and it is therefore desirable that they be able to discuss these violations on the spot. The order on the spot may impose a fine of up to CZK 10,000. The adoption of the proposed law will strengthen the enforcement of the ordered measures. The bill will also mean reducing the administrative burden on administrative authorities, which would otherwise deal with offences in classical administrative proceedings, as well as the costs and obligations associated with classical administrative proceedings will be waived by the accused of offences. Power of the Police of the Czech Republic and the Municipal Police will be bound only to government measures and the Ministry of Health directly in connection with the current Coronavirus, and therefore it is proposed to amend it in a separate law. We have asked to discuss the bill in a short hearing so that we can ensure the enforcement of the ordered measures as soon as possible. And let me thank the Security Committee for its consideration and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u3	The Security Committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the President's decision, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 810/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Security Committee, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and of any possible amendments. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Security Committee has dealt with this material this Monday. In essence, after a longer discussion, we have not adopted any amendment and we recommend that we adopt this proposal in the text tabled by the Chamber of Deputies. For your decision, I just want you to know, if necessary, the number of negotiations. During the weekend - now on weekends 4 and 5 April - the police discussed or filed 300 reports of a violation of the Health Act and 240 reports of a breach of the crisis law, which means a total of 540 announcements only during one weekend. All these 540 meetings must be discussed by the administrative authorities of the municipality with extended scope in the case of the first law, respectively. the second law, or the administrative authorities of regional sanitary stations in the case of the first law. The Regional Hygiene Stations are already sufficiently busy today and this is unnecessarily administratively burdened, just as it is burdened by the Police of the Czech Republic and the officers of municipal and municipal police. Just to give you an idea of some other numbers. Traffic offenses - this is the most common offence handled by the Police of the Czech Republic, and I speak only for the Police of the Czech Republic - in 2019 she dealt with the order on the spot by imposing a block penalty of 138 thousand offences on the spot, and then sent 13 thousand to the administrative authorities for discussion. In this case, we expect that about half of these notifications - and again, 540 of them were just this past weekend - could be dealt with by order on the spot, that is, by imposing the block ticket. Of course, by the fact that there is CZK 10,000, that does not mean that the amount must be deposited in the maximum amount of CZK 10,000. No one has to worry. I believe that our officers and officers are quite the professionals and can assess the social harm of the conduct. And as we know, and as we discussed in the Security Committee, they are using the Institute of Remembrance, which we have returned to their ability to deal with offences, because to resolve a violation on the spot by a deal, and this happens in the most common case. Of course, where the agreement is not sufficient, or it is a repeated violation of the law, then the announcement is now coming. This is where the second option could come in, which means solving the matter on the spot with the command decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u5	Mr Miroslav Kalousek has now declared himself with priority rights. But that's in the general debate, or do you want to get out right now? However, we will vote on the general debate whether we will even lead it. So you might get rejected. Then you can still have priority rights. If you agree, we will now decide by voting whether we will hold a general debate. So I'm gonna go on. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of us having a general debate? Who's against it? Voting number 111, 99 Members registered, for 83, against none. The motion was accepted. With priority, I shall ask for the speech of Mr Miroslav Kalousek. And Mr. Miroslav Benda will be prepared. Please. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] Sorry. Marek Benda. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u6	Thank you for the floor. Well, I still hope you're not serious about this. That you must realize the implications of this decision or this amendment to the law. We appeal to the public to comply with hygiene regulations, wear drapes, anything to pay without cash if possible. And in that case, who do you think will carry the cash to pay those cops? Even if they're carrying a payment terminal, who's just got the corresponding limit of two, five, ten thousand on their card? The rapporteur said that this does not mean that police officers will impose fines up to 10,000, that they are reasonable. Well, the moment they get that authority, I also strongly hope that most of them are normal and honest, but you can't rule out a certain percentage for which the corruption lure will be extraordinary, and the amount of the fine will take place depending on how much the person who committed the offence has put in their pocket. I remember those media cases where the police were telling the nudists by the pond that they didn't have drapes. I don't know where the nudists would pay them. And the cop who slapped that 19-year-old girl, he'd pick what? [[15.30 hours]] I'm not prepared in a situation where we've extended the emergency without you being able to justify what you need it for, so I'm just not ready to strengthen the repressive instruments of the state. I'm not. And if anybody commits a misdemeanor, then let them pay for something in administrative proceedings. I'm totally disgusted that cops could collect fines on the spot for this, or bargain for how much, and open up a huge corruption area. I'm totally against it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u7	The chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala will now perform with priority rights. And then I will give the floor to Mr Kubíček, who has applied. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u8	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a very similar view of this law. I feel there's no need to strengthen the powers of the police. I feel and believe that the police have enough resources to fine people at the moment, to correct them, and I also see around me that there is huge solidarity, that people wear drapes, that they try to make everything the way it should be, and I would say that it is a overwhelming majority. At a time when slow relaxation is taking place, it means that we say that you can already run around the woods without masks, that you can sports and so on, so we will strengthen the police's powers to fine us. I can imagine what it might look like, and I don't agree with it either. koneckonců all, we voted for an emergency until April 30th, and I don't think it's gonna be necessary for that moment. The police can judge the matter in administrative proceedings and have sufficient competences and powers to act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u9	Mr Kubíček will now appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As usual, I propose a limitation of negotiations - a speech by one Member for five minutes in general and for five minutes in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u11	We will vote on this proposal of yours without delay. Do I hear you're interested in checking out? I hear some knocking. Yes. I'll check you out, please sign in with my voting cards again. We will vote on Mr Roman Kubíček's proposal, which proposes to limit speaking time in the general debate to five minutes. This is a vote pursuant to Section 90 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 7 Rules of Procedure. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 112, 83 Members registered, for 73, against 4. The motion was accepted. Thus speaking time in the general debate will be limited to five minutes. I will now ask for Mr Radovan Vích's speech and Mr Benda will be prepared. [[Ambassador Benda wants to get off first.]] You, Mr. Ambassador, applied earlier, but I do not understand why you are electronically with Mr. Radovan Vích. [[Voices from the O.R. said he'd been there before.]] All right. I'm following the exact order I see on the screen, unfortunately I can't summon you any other way. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Radovan Vích has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u12	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me briefly state the opinion of the SPD's parliamentary club on this matter. In any case, we are responsible for increasing the security of our citizens. However, we currently consider the bill to be useless, especially at the time when the measures taken by the government are loosened up. We consider existing legislation sufficient. The police and the military are enjoying great public confidence, and we would not want the police to lose their credit thanks to this bill, and that, even for a certain period, a so-called police state will be established with us, where police officers will catch cyclists and line up with how many they have caught. I would just like to say that the police are to help and protect, and not to pester citizens in times of restrictive measures. If anyone refuses to pay for this offence, it will eventually fall into the administration's solution and the collection will be very complicated. So the arguments that we want to dismantle the authorities from bureaucracy are still irrelevant. So, in conclusion, I would like to say that the bill is not a system and the SPD MP will not support this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u13	I therefore now call on Mr Marek Benda. You have your word. Please, you have a beautiful five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u14	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I speak for myself, our club has a free vote, and I would just like to say why I will not support the proposal. It's not on my part any mistrust of the police or the city police. But as we have been told by the statistics here, even now by the rapporteur, about 140 thousand fines are imposed on the spot in criminal traffic proceedings, approximately 13,000 are going into administrative proceedings. That means ten times is a fine on the spot. If the police are sending 540 cases into administrative proceedings today over the weekend, let's count on another 5,000 to deal with a fine on the spot. Those are the real numbers that I believe are at risk. Of course, every policeman will think three times before he goes into administrative proceedings, try to make a deal three times, say to the man, "You didn't have a mask, you did this, you came too close, you go four, stop it" before you write any protocol. Putting a fine, and we all know that, just people are lazy in the world, even cops are lazy, putting a fine on the spot is so much easier. And if we follow the laws that are discussed in the long term, in which we know exactly what is allowed and what is not allowed, I will say "silencefully do it" but we today in the coronavirus, and in the coming months it will be the same, we will follow the decision of the Minister of Health, which is issued that morning, or sometimes three days in advance, or sometimes a week in advance. We have seen the Minister of the Interior several times, and he should be the most competent person in the matter, even Mr Prymula as head of the Central Crisis Staff, who says: we understand that you do not have to wear a drape in the forest, even though so far it is written by health care that you have to have it everywhere, we understand that when you are driving only with your family, with whom you are all weekend, or all week, or all three Sundays at home, it is useless for everyone to have a drape. But it just doesn't say that in the regulation. I am very concerned that what is being interpreted by some common sense today and often really as an interpretation of the relevant officials, so suddenly we will say this, and even outside the administrative procedure, this will be dealt with by a fine on the spot. And in my opinion, it's just gonna be an argument and a dispute. The situations that life brings in when you want to wear a drape all the time, and that means that I can eat on the street, the Prime Minister can eat ice cream when he buys it, I can, when I stand in a corner, have a cigarette, or I have to get into a house or some closed space. There's a lot of situations like this. And in this regard, I think that it is extremely unfortunate precisely because the bans are not clearly defined and that those bans should be dealt with with with, as far as possible, with common sense as possible, with the agreement, to come up with the fact that we will punish and sanction any violation. That's why I'm not gonna raise my hand for the proposal. And it's not because I don't trust the police or the city police, but it's really because I'm afraid it's gonna be more fights and disputes than something useful. Since the decisions are not clear enough, they are not sufficiently precise. It's just, as we run through time, a one-time decision by the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u15	The Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal will now speak with priority rights and Mr Feri will be prepared. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u16	Thank you. Please let me have the five minutes, I won't be that long, it's not with priority rights at this time. I only perform to draw attention to some of the risks associated with it. I've already had cases where homeless people have brought a $20,000 fine for moving somewhere without a drape or insufficient... It seems disproportionate to me. I'm afraid, given the legal uncertainty that we're all in here, and we all, I hope, understand that we wear these drapes to protect the people around us, and that it's to make them as sick as possible, there are just cases that the law or the orderer can't think of precisely enough at the moment. And going in that direction, when we're going to want to deal with it more and more on the spot, we're going to prescribe exactly what it's supposed to look like, at a time when the regulations and regulations are really changing from day to day, it doesn't seem like a good way to go. So please, let's consider very strongly whether this is the direction we want to take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u17	So now, with priority right, the chairman of the Pirates Club, Jakub Michálek, will prepare Mr Dominik Feri. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. When my colleague Pikal spoke, I thought I'd follow up on him, make a little bit of a pirate block so we could have it all the time. We'll have a free vote at the club. However, I wanted to describe some of my preliminary considerations on this subject and ask some questions to the Minister, because according to the answers and the vision of how this law will be applied, what the methodological recommendations will be, and what the microphone sounds like promises here, I will decide how I will vote. Especially from the studies I have at my disposal, e.g. From the IDEA CERGE think tank, it follows that the most effective is to allocate police officers and these persons to the recovery of isolation and quarantine, not to guard the application, enforcement basically outside wearing drapes and such things. So I wanted to ask you what the distribution of these cops is, how many percent do I need about-- I don't need absolutely accurate numbers-- we're giving to enforce the isolation and quarantine. I have noted the ministry's statement that the Ministry is doing this, which I commend and consider important. If we really have a situation like this here, we need to enforce the quarantine and isolation, and we need to follow strictly. And from the data we got from those people who came back from Italy, it turned out to be significantly violated, which, of course, leads to the fact that the spread of the disease is absolutely out of control. So I think the assumption is that the police will primarily allocate their precious capacity to solve the priority cases, in this case quarantine and isolation, and that will only be complementary. Also, the IDEA CERGE also says that to make sense of this application, it is important to communicate to people in a simple way, i.e. Whereas there is a range of up to 10,000, so let's say the first violation will look like this, or this type of violation will be sanctioned in one way or another, so that there are three categories of violations maximum so that people can expect. And I don't think it's right to say that in the media, we're all gonna get 10,000, and it's gonna be. That the principle of proportionality should indeed be maintained in this case, and there should be some clearer methodology by the police, how it will be recommended to those police officers and officers to choose the starting value, and, of course, in individual cases, they can adjust it, however, to have some unified leadership from the state. I'm sure none of us want this to turn into a pervert. We want to preserve the rational sense of the proposal that, in cases where it is possible to solve it on the spot with a reasonable amount of block fines, it will not be transferred to sanitary stations, which are already hugely burdened by the fact that they have to manage the route, and they will, of course, have to do so in the future, so it does not really make sense for the offences to be transferred to them. I think the advantage of this adjustment is that it allows and preserves the possibility of a citizen who is not satisfied with the decision in the order procedure on the spot, to transfer it to the administrative authority to deal with it. So there's no way that there's any unlimited abuse of police authority and the introduction of a police state. Even if I think that after the vote tonight, some people are going to present it so politically on their social networks, I don't think this is really going to happen here. I would therefore ask the Minister if he could comment on the guarantees I have mentioned here, which means that a large proportion of police officers will be allocated primarily to the isolation, quarantine, etc., and not to the area enforcement on the street, which, of course, is very simple, but essentially secondary in terms of epidemiological effect. And then, if at least an indicative methodology is issued, let's say three of the most common problems, so that it's basically not within 0 to 10,000 per cop, which I don't think would be right and fair. Thank you for your attention and thank the Minister in advance for his possible response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u19	So now, because I see no interest in speaking here with priority rights, I will ask Mr Dominik Feri to speak and Mr Martin Kupka will prepare himself. Ambassador, please, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm not touching that mic. I got a message that we shouldn't touch him with such fierceness. The President Kalousek has already summed up our position on the parliamentary club. And I quite agree with what he mentioned here, for example. President of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of Benda. But there's one thing I'd like to add in addition. I don't think the government should tighten up the measures, look for better whips, but it should try to improve the communication channels. Because the measures of a general nature, or the extraordinary measures, whatever form they take, are simply not often known by the addressees because they are fluid because they simply change every day. I'm especially approached by young people who just don't know what they can do, what they can't do, where they can find it, where they have no idea where to look. If it wouldn't be worth stretching those forces in that direction. And the same applies to the members. Because they often also interpret the measures in a very specific way. And there were cases where people texted me that someone was waiting at the bus stop, sat down, and they already wanted to push him away, that it was against measures. It means that that's where the energy should be directed, and not try to solve everything at any cost by ordering it on the spot. In this situation, we cannot support this proposal, although it is clear to us with what intentions it was submitted by the Ministry. But that goal should be for the addressees to know their rights and their responsibilities. This is not happening at the moment, and unfortunately, the rights and obligations of many people are unknown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u21	Now, Mr Martin Kupka, you have five minutes, and then Mr Bartošek is still reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u22	I would only take the liberty of making a very brief remark, because it has repeatedly been heard here in recent days, I agree that the Czech public has responded to all these measures very disciplinedly, being considerate. Of course, there are excesses, but it also seems, in relation to the statistics that have been said, that they are still really minority, quite minority. In this respect, I would like to maintain the rhetoric that we, as politicians, have shown that, above all, we are explaining to the public, asking for responsibility and consideration. In addition - and this is an important point - both the municipal police and the state police have an instrument at the moment and are also using it in cases where there is no other way and explaining is not enough. The institute is called disobeying an official's call. At that point, municipal police and state police can fine and use it precisely in situations that are adequate, adequate, and there is no other way and explaining and emphasis on responsibility simply is not enough. So even at this point, there is a functional tool and it can be used.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u23	Mr Jan Bartošek, President of the KDU-ČSL Club, will now have priority rights and Mr Ivan Bartoš will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u24	Thank you. I would like to welcome the discipline of citizens in the way they behave in this crisis situation. And just for the sake of completeness, I want to say that this emergency measure is only being implemented after a crisis period, that is, it does not change permanently. It is an extraordinary measure that contains a range from agreement to penalty of 10,000 on the spot. Most of the time, as far as I know, the cops deal, and people respect that. It's a signal to me that the police are working pros who are simply trying in a clear way to make a deal where possible. I'm glad for that. This is an emergency measure in case the deal doesn't work. That means I'm saying for myself that I'm gonna support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u25	The chairman of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš will now appear, so far the last application for discussion. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u26	I have the last short of my life when we have the Minister here. I would be so glad if it were said here in the House that people who have dreadlocks, long hair, colored hair, earrings in their ears, shaved hairstyles, or walk in some way untraditionally dressed, are not a group that significantly violates any rules or even these hygiene rules, because from my personal experience and experience of the advice of people who write to me, unfortunately they are more often addressed, and I think that they are not always measured by the same metro, that perhaps the methodology of determining the amount of penalty for criminality with this, or the amount of fines for any offense has nothing to do with it given to man. I'm saying this as funny as it is here, but I don't think there's any statistics that people who look more alternative than some colleagues here, like, are significantly more involved in misdemeanors or disrespectful rules.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u27	Now we've exhausted all applications. Mr. Miroslav Kalousek is still reporting now, so please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u28	Thank you. I don't want to take too long, I'm just taking the liberty of appealing to your normal sanity. For proboha's sake, try to imagine it in practice. Somewhere there will be people who, in the opinion of the cop, are going to break the government's orders, whether they have a slanted drape or four, and not two, that cop is going to come in and he's going to want to fine. They're gonna call him, we don't have any money. What's he gonna do with them? Does he have to put them in administrative proceedings? They're gonna say, "We had the drape, you didn't get a good look, show us the photo documentation." We're in a situation that's serious, where we're all just tense, we're scared, except for the fear of contagion, there's a growing fear of the police state. I certainly hope it's a false fear. But there is. And we're not supposed to work out false fear either. So let's not strengthen him, please. There's no point! It doesn't lead to any effect, you're just gonna piss these people off!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u29	Now I have no further application, so I am ending the general debate and now I am asking for the final words. And this is where the Minister is going, so he has the floor, and the rapporteur is also going? Yes. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u30	Thank you. I'm just very brief. I respect that everyone can have an opinion on this bill and, of course, they will vote on it. Just a few notes on the margo of the police state worries. As far as I know, the Police of the Czech Republic are looking forward to the confidence of about 80 percent of the population, so if citizens felt that we were approaching a police state here, they probably wouldn't trust the police like that. So I thank the police for their work, and I believe there's no reason for anyone here to fear that the police will abuse that authority. The police officer is trained enough to do this - even if he carries out other checks, for example in transport, he is trained to recognize the seriousness of the offence and to fine it accordingly. Which, to some extent, is the answer to those who wanted tariff records to make it clear what the amount of money is for what, for what violation. I think it is necessary to leave this to the police officer and also to assess the situation, that is, whether it really is an omission, and that can be dealt with in agreement, or whether it is repeated and can be said to be a deliberate violation. I just want to point out that what really matters is that 99 percent of the population here adheres to everything ordered doesn't cause any problems, and thanks to them. But then there's some 1% of those who are funny about it, and that cop just, when he intervenes, from my point of view, has to be able to impose the penalty. And it's easier to do it this way than go into administrative proceedings. By the way, the problem is, in a situation where our hygiene is overloaded, if there's no chance of a block solution on the spot, all that idea goes straight to the sanitation stations, and instead of tracking, they're gonna be papering the administration. So I think it's wise for me to lighten them up and give them the opportunity to pay it on the spot with a block ticket. And it's definitely not about the cops handing out tens of thousands of tickets. I'm sure you didn't. She's become such a debate about sneakers, but of course it's not just about sneakers, it's about the different garage parties and other things, and the police just have to be able to intervene and grant the penalty. So I still owe the answer to Prime Minister Michálek, who I don't see... over there. Police, of course, also check quarantine, isolation. However, the problem is with the transfer of data from individual actors, which means either from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - it has improved a lot in a situation where police keep records at border crossing points, that is, we know who leaves the country and returns to it, and if quarantine is granted on this basis, then the control will be easier. So the police are able to do it, but it will be more effective when we have more information - I don't have the numbers now how many police officers control the quarantine and how many are on the streets. On the other hand, if we pull the police off the streets, we're gonna get sick of people driving drunk or driving too fast, so the police are gonna have to be on the streets. But I just wanted to confirm that the police are checking quarantine and isolation, assuming he has data. So much for me. I would like to ask you to support this bill. From my point of view, the guarantee against abuse is that the law expires with the validity of the emergency measures, and, yes, I agree with Mr Kupka, it can be fined for disobeying the call, but you do not de facto warrant that for violating the government regulation, but for disobeying the police officer. And this, from my point of view, is a cleaner solution than what the police have to use until now, because it doesn't have the authority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u31	The rapporteur, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, will now take the floor. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I, too, allow myself to respond and basically follow up on the Minister. Basically, the only way to fine the challenge is by disobeying it, as Mr Radim Fiala also said, that the police have enough means to fine it, so it is basically, be aware of it, it is the faggot that has always bothered us. The police stopped someone and said you weren't strapped in, we saw you. He started arguing with them, so they said, so show me the first aid kit and the light bulbs. And they gave him the ticket for something else. If there's a violation of law or order, that's exactly what the sanctions are supposed to be. Either sanctions within the framework of the imposition of the order on the spot, that is, fines, if you want, or if the perpetrator disagrees, then to the administrative authority. So the current circumvention of the fact that they were fined for disobeying the call, I think it's rather harmful, because the wrongdoer is to be punished for what he's done. Even if we had spoken - to Mr Michálek, I would have taken the liberty, through Mr President. If I was talking about the quarantine, it currently exists, and it's already being filled within the county sanitation stations, a database of people who are quarantined. The cops have access to this database through the operations center, so they'll know, it's one performance. [[16.00 hours]] The second performance is that which the Minister spoke of, that is, the persons entering the Republic have the quarantine. But it needs to be realized that those people who are in that quarantine are not in prison, and that's why the police aren't guarding them at the place of residence or at that. If it's people in a place of residence somewhere and there's a district department or there's a police officer with that local and personal knowledge, he knows who's in quarantine, and of course it's much better controlled. But if this person doesn't comply with quarantine regulations, then police officers aren't specifically assigned to check it this way, because all cops have the opportunity to look into this database through their operating centers. And it must also be said that non-compliance with quarantine is basically a criminal offence - either careless or even a guilty form, and the criminal code thinks about it. And if we're talking about there's gonna be disputes and fights on the spot, yes, they're gonna happen, but if they do, whether they're gonna happen now or they're gonna happen after the possibility that the offence or the infringement can be resolved on the spot by a warrant, that's what the administrative authority's gonna decide. This is about, as the Minister mentioned, partially debugging and the part of the matter that can be discussed on the ground, and discussing it. And just because someone doesn't have money on them doesn't mean it can't be solved. The police have terminals, they're equipped with transport police vehicles, they can come in, they can pay through a credit card, they can take over the bill, and they can pay it extra. It's just that they agree to the infringement. And that sending the infraction to the administration means another increase, because there's an administrative fee and it's completely unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u33	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and I have some priority rights here. First of all, if I have noted this correctly, President Stanjura came forward, then President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u34	I apologize to the Minister. I was distracted so that we wouldn't all be here, and the debate was faster than I expected, so because I have a priority right, I can say one comment that the citizens are writing to me, and then one point to me is a pointless government regulation that could be fined on the basis of that law. Maybe I'll start with the first one, 'cause my glasses are fogging right now. And our nice government has decided that if there's more driving than a driver in a car, for example, people who live together in a common household, they're driving together, so they have to wear drapes. Okay. If the driver doesn't have glasses, I understand. But it's the responsible citizens who tell me that they don't want to violate government orders, they have glasses, they're fogging them, and they're afraid they won't get a ten grand fine for not wearing a drape, but they'll crash because they can't see anything. [[Fun.]] No, it's not funny. I really don't say this as a joke, because especially responsible senior citizens take it seriously. So don't think of it as a joke. They really turn to me about it, and they don't know what they're supposed to do. And I would like the Minister to abolish this nonsense regulation, virtually. Government. For example, if people who live together in a house together, they don't have to have it. They're together all day, and then in the car, when the driver's wearing glasses, he has to wear drapes, because otherwise he can... The only thing we always say is failure. Then an individual will stop them and fine them. And the second thing, and now, don't take it as a criticism, Minister, but the voice of the citizens who are writing to me, who are watching this debate, says, "If that government gives us the drapes, let it fine us! We made them ourselves, and they're supposed to fine us for it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u35	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u36	Thank you. I'm very interested in the rapporteur's statement when he said a practice he probably knows as an experienced cop: I can't prove it to you here, so show me the first aid kit! That means, basically, he's been demonstrating to us the usual way that cops go around the law to apply the repression they want to apply. I guess so. On the other hand, it doesn't make much sense simply to the comment made by Minister Hamáček, who says that everyone is holy and that it is not. Then you guys should work something out. I have no bad experience with the Police of the Czech Republic in recent years, and I thank all police officers for what they are doing for security in this crisis, but at the same time I do not see the only reason why I would offer them an attraction that many of them simply cannot resist because it is an attraction, because we all know that a dog from a wolf differs only from a collar on which it is hanged. Then why offer them the opportunity? It just doesn't make any sense. I'm begging you not to accept this. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior, since it is so important to prosecute and impose sanctions immediately: When you planted cheese under a rubber band in Lany, did the policeman intervene or will you be dealt with in administrative proceedings?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u37	Thank you. Now the Minister has volunteered. After all, I would perhaps move first to open a detailed debate at least so that we do not return. So if no one objects, I am opening up a detailed debate and now the Minister has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u38	I understand to Mr Kalousek that there is a need to take advantage of all the possibilities for kicking, so I will answer him. That thing's in the investigation, and when the competent authority that's saving it on submission issues their verdict, then sanctions can go down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u39	Thank you. The rapporteur is also reporting for a detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u40	They just have to react, too. I basically didn't say that the police are breaking the law, and by going around, that something like this could happen, and that's what we were talking about, that if we're looking for other solutions to be fined for disobeying an order or order, it's wrong. The man broke the law completely different. But we're all just covering the drape or the respirator here, but the minister told you that this is about punishing some of those parties that happen in leisure activities or, say, on a weekend at the cottages, in restaurants, and where else, where the law is simply violated, and can occur at such mass events to infect units or dozens of people who are there. And if there's a conscious violation of the law, there's got to be some way to deal with it. This possibility exists here, except that it exists now by being able to resolve it by submitting a notification to the competent administrative authority, that is to say, the authority of the regional health station or the municipality with extended scope. And such a simple trick on the part of Mr Kalousek. You know, Mr. Colleague, when I was a cop lately, I was the one who was prosecuting politicians, not the first-aid kites.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u41	Thank you, and now Mr Benda has volunteered from his post. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u42	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I take advantage of the fact that we only have a general and detailed debate to respond briefly to what the Minister says. I understand all this, but it really has to be much clearer what is allowed and not allowed. If we say "everybody in public has to wear a mask," does that really mean I can't even drink the coffee? Now I'm making fun of a colleague who ate whether to be fined or not. That's the problem that's being ordered to that extent. And let's assume that we're in a situation right now. The next months in smart tracking and in smart quarantine will be the fact that we will be regulating: three people are allowed to do business at most. Who's the fine? Is that the fourth one? There's a line in front of the store two meters in a row. There'll be lines on the road. Overstepping the line will be fined, won't it be fined? I don't know how many more things are gonna come up. All I know so far is this: Kindergarten is then and then. Kids have to wash their hands when they go to kindergarten, go through their shoes in some fake pool to clean them up. [[16.10 hours]] Just really please, we're in a situation where it's all on the good will of the citizens, on the fact that it's going to work because the citizens trust us. And if we call them "we need you to be fined for it" and at that degree of uncertainty. If you'd at least write it on the inside, I'd agree to a certain extent, because I know at least you have lawyers there. We have lifelong experience with health care. Lifetime, everyone! We know how it says. It's like, this is how we wish it were. And this is what we really want under penalty, which will be given on the spot, with all due respect for the police and the city police? I'd be extremely careful about that, and I'd rather use the option Martin Kupka was talking about. If somebody's really rude, they don't want to listen, then try him for not wanting to listen. But not to test for violating regulations that many of us do not know how to interpret. I didn't know for 14 days, Minister, honestly, if I could go to the cabin or I couldn't go to the cabin. Whether it's a way into nature or not, it's a way into nature. Even though I don't meet anyone but my family on the way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u43	Thank you. Now I have three applications here. Mrs Černochová came forward first, but the Minister also applied. So I'm gonna ask if he wants to apply... No. Okay. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u44	So, I have to disagree with some of my ODS colleagues here because I know these things from practice. And unfortunately, the practice that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u45	I'll ask for some peace in the room. And please continue, I'll give you more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u46	... which is currently taking place in Prague 2 on our swimmer or in our parks, is different. I do not agree with my colleague Marek Benda through you, because the entire law is based on the principle that sanctions can be imposed up to CZK 10,000 from agreement. Also, there's no taxable list of what kind of public order breach the police department is, at this point, a police officer, so not an organ, but an officer of the municipal police will determine that this man has now committed such a man's macaque delinquency. So I would really, I don't think there's any point in dragging around who has an opinion like that or a poppy. It's just some short-term solution that I respect, which I'm glad for, because I think it really gives the local politicians some way to the mayors how these things are in a place where there's a problem, so how they can deal with it. I supported it on the Security Committee, I'll vote for it here too. And I, too, would like to thank police officers and officers from this place, because it is not an easy time for them, either. For all of us who are just trying to keep some standard of what people were used to here with the Ministry of the Interior, it's not easy to explain to them that if they want to run, they can run in the woods without a drape nowadays, but that maybe on that swimmer, cyclists and runners must wear a drape. And I believe in the intelligence of the Police and the officers of the Municipal Police, who are nota bene even more often tested than those Police policista of the Czech Republic. 'Cause they have to do a regular proficiency test after some intervals, so maybe they know the legislation better than...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u47	Madam, I will interrupt you and ask your colleagues for more peace. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u48	Maybe they know the legislation better than, unfortunately, any police officer, their choir doesn't update the checks. So I would really believe in common sense, and that the moment it's really someone who's gonna be like Marek Benda smoking turned into a house so he doesn't blow steam on anyone, not cigarette smoke today, but steam, so it's a deal here. But the minute it's five people who are drinking and smoking a water pipe in our swimmer, and that policeman or officer comes in and tells them three times to break up, let them not sit there, they can't sit there, they have to wear drapes, so if it really comes to that extreme, they have to deal with sanctions, then let them have that opportunity. And it's in place, and we're not overloading the hygiene, as the Minister rightly said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u49	Thank you for not using all the time. And Mr Hrnčíř has declared himself next to the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Not to mention that the state here wants to fine people, that they take off a drape somewhere in the woods, and they want to drink, like, soft drinks, and if they didn't give the drapes to those people that we had to make it ourselves, the golden Czech hands turned out to be a good choice again, then the novel is just completely redundant. Just most citizens, most Čech just don't have thousands and tens of thousands in their pockets. So if he gets a fine of CZK 10,000 in the woods somewhere, it's just gonna go into the administrative proceedings because he just doesn't have the money on him. It means the way it is now that we don't need it at all. Plus, the condition is prolonged for three weeks. So I think that's completely unnecessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u51	Thank you. He just checked in with me... Does he want priority rights or do we have another Member? Well, with priority rights, Mr. Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u52	Just this argument shouldn't fit in when we're dealing with a road traffic bill. So we could say we should cancel all the fines because people don't carry money around.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u53	Thank you. And now, Mr Martínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u54	Thank you. I just want to start by saying that I support wearing a mask. It was the pirát who were one of the first to promote the wearing of masks in public. Prague has already taken measures on the wearing of drapes in public transport on 16 March, a few days before the government. But on the other hand, let's actually define it, but if the family that lives together is in one of the cars that they have, they're the only ones using it, then it's not necessary for everyone in that car to really wear those drapes. So let's give it a little bit of logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u55	Minister Hamáček, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u56	I'm sorry, I forgot my colleague Stanjura's performance. That, of course, is a reasonable suggestion for this to be resolved. I'm sure there's gonna be a lot of questions about how the police are gonna find out if they're living together or not. But it's got a ratio, so... He's not here, Mr. Health Minister, but when we discuss it, I'm sure it's something that we'd like to sort out and not force people in the same family as each other when they're driving the car so they can have the drapes. So I understand that, and I'm gonna try to discuss it with the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u57	Thank you. That was the last application for a debate at the moment. So if no one else is reporting from the scene, at this point, I am ending the debate in detail. I ask if there is an interest in the final word for a detailed debate by the appellant or rapporteur. It's not like that. At this point, there have been no proposals that we should vote directly after the debate. So I'm going to end the second reading of this proposal and we're going to continue with the third reading. For the purposes of Article 99 (1) of the Treaty, the following definitions shall apply: 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act allows us to do so, so I am initiating a third reading of the submitted Government Bill and the rapporteur will monitor it because it is still at the rapporteur's table. And I open the debate at third reading and ask if anyone wants to speak at third reading. If this is not the case, I am already calling my colleagues to the hall and ending the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. Here's the check-out request, so I'm gonna check you all out. And now I will ask the rapporteur to introduce us to the draft procedure, which I believe will not be difficult.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u58	Mr President, Minister, colleagues, since there has been no amendment, we can only vote on the material presented as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-007-008.u59	Yes, I believe so. I will therefore read the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's proposal for a law on the jurisdiction of the Czech Police and the Municipal Police to prosecute violations of crisis measures and emergency measures ordered in connection with the demonstration of the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus in the Czech Republic according to the Parliamentary Press 810 as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." So much for the motion for a resolution. I believe everyone has arrived in the O.R. who wanted to arrive and volunteered. [[16.20 hours]] So I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Finally, in the vote number 113, 96 Members and Members of Parliament, for 52, against 27. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. And that's all within this point. I thank the appellant and thank the rapporteur. And let's move on, this point is over. We are moving on to point 9, and before I open it, we must, before discussing the Government's draft law on certain measures to mitigate the effects of SARS-CoV-2 Coronavirus on tenants of premises serving business, which is the House's 816 press, which is proposed in the short-term negotiations, so we should, in accordance with § 99 para. 5 assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the proposal in the accelerated procedure remain. I'm opening up a debate on this, if anybody's applying. If this is not the case, I am ending the debate. And we will proceed to the vote. I will read the motion for a resolution: The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for discussing the Government's draft law on certain measures to mitigate the effects of SARS-CoV-2 on tenants of premises serving business, which is the House's 816 press, in a shortened negotiation. If nobody's against it, I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 100 Members and Members registered in the 114 vote, for 90, against no one. I therefore note that the motion for a resolution has been agreed and approved. And so we can move on to opening the point. In accordance with the agreement, factual remarks should not be made again. So far we've been holding it, hopefully we'll keep it going.
