ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u1	371. Government proposal for a law on certain measures to mitigate the effects of the Coronavirus known as SARS-CoV-2 on cultural events /house print 848/ - shortened negotiations According to § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the examination of that draft law were limited. I am opening up a debate on this. No one is to be heard, the debate is closed, and we will proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's draft law on certain measures to mitigate the effects of the Coronavirus, referred to as SARS-CoV-2 on cultural events, the House's press 848, in a shortened hearing.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 153, 108 Members are registered, for 85, against no one. The motion for a resolution has been approved. The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek and I will ask the Minister to take the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u2	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will present to you a proposal that concerns festivals, if I simplify it, which should have been held especially during the summer months that are popular, but which, as you know, especially if it was a thousand-headed festivals, often international, will not be held in this country this time. Let me just start by reminding you that these festivals are often connected to music. Most of them are big music festivals, and although it is not exclusively, they are also film festivals, but especially those music festivals have become quite popular lately and some of them have quite a crucial place in the country's music life; a country that actually has music like perhaps its largest art, even export, and which is probably the most culturally famous brand in the world. So I don't think we can underestimate the importance of this musical life, not only in the summer at all, but that it is actually something that is the basis of Czech culture and its reputation in the world. So that's why I'm actually doing this, and that's why I've also submitted this proposal to the government, which the government has approved and which I'm presenting to you here today, and the point is that given that the big festivals are not going to be able to take place - if you ask me how large the number is, I'll say that roughly this proposal is about 50 festivals so that you can have an idea of what the number of events are. At this point, I'm just not gonna tell you exactly what's going to happen to the smaller ones because you know we're on some sort of trajectory. As summer will look, it will now be decided, at this point no one will actually tell you that, although I am quite optimistic, but I will not say any estimates. What we do know is that these big festivals will not be possible. That is what I think we know for sure today, and that is why I have tried here to prepare a proposal that would be an attempt to prevent those teams of people who are preparing the biggest festivals so that, in fact, as a result of the need to cancel them, cancel them, declare that they will not take place, so that, as a result, they will not suffer collapses and crashes, which may even prevent them from continuing in this activity for the future. That's one thing. And the second thing is, if these organizations went bankrupt, if they had already bought thousands of tickets for them in January, February, sometimes tens of thousands of tickets, they would have lost their money in the event of such a failure, the bankruptcy of the organizers, because it would be hard to find any replacements. [[17.20 hours]] That means, I point out that this proposal, and it is important, is an attempt to find a kind of win-win solution, that is, to seek solutions that would help the organizers, but at the same time it would be some protection for those customers, those clients. Because it's important that you understand that we didn't really just want to help the one side first. This was really about finding a certain balance to give both sides a chance. Customers didn't lose their money and were given the opportunity to attend a similar festival later, say next year, and there was a chance of saving cash flow, liquidity, cash for those who were preparing the festivals and who, in the event that they suddenly threw themselves at them all with tickets, that they wanted them back, because the festival isn't happening, so they would actually collapse their cash and they would have to declare their bankruptcy. So it's help, it's actually liquidity help, cash help. And that principle is simple. It was used elsewhere. I confess that we have also met the proposal they have in Germany, and it is important for us, also the German proposal, not that we merely copy, it is not exactly the same, but it is important because we also needed to know that the European Commission will not question this procedure and that it will not call it any form of public support. So we know for sure today, because at this time of emergency, we are not the only country that resorts to this instrument. And perhaps I won't do so much if I reveal that in some of these features it really resembles the proposal that was approved in the German Parliament, so it inspired us a little bit. And that principle is, as you probably know, that principle is that it's actually going to declare a protective period. It means that we've declared that those people who bought the tickets won't ask for the admission back when they say the festival isn't, except for the defined group - the group is defined there in the law, I'm not going to name it for you, they're just disabled, women who care about... just a whole series of socially weak ones, that's the exception, they can ask you for the money back right away. But the others, which will be covered by the protection period for the organizers, after which they will be able to consider until 30 March next year, will be able to consider whether to purchase a ticket or not to obtain a voucher that will give them a ticket to the similar festival held next year, for example, in summer. So that's how these deadlines are created. The duration of the protection period, it's important. The duration is until 31 October 2020/2021, so next year, it will take protection, and only then if the person doesn't choose a concert similar or agrees to take the ticket for it, so after this period of protection, when it comes, the ticket will be paid for. So that's the principle of it. The important thing is that the effectiveness of this law will be - if it goes well and you approve it here today and if the Senate approves it, let's say sometime after mid-May it will be possible to declare the law, and only after the law is effective until the festival has to declare that it cancels that it will not take place. Even if someone's already done it, they'll have to do it again. This means, according to the law, only after the validity of this law is necessary for the person to say publicly again: the festival will not take place. And then on this basis, he can use this bill and he can use the possibility that his tickets can be exchanged for a voucher that will give him a chance to visit a substitute concert, like a substitute performance, a substitute festival. The replacement festival may be expected to take place in autumn, but the more likely version is, I know the organizers are thinking about it, if they have the festival now in July, so they'll just be doing it in July next year and the tickets purchased for this year can be used for a festival similar one year later. So I'm trying to tell you - I'm not exactly telling you all the data to make it clear at all, so I'm ready to answer that if you ask me, and maybe even clarify the details of the law. But the essence is this. The essence is to protect the customer and help the organizer with the cash flow and the protective period to give him such a pillow, such a chance to take a breath and have the opportunity to survive the period by decomposeing it like this. Well, it's - I'm not saying it's a 100% method of helping those organizers. I spoke to some who assured me that this was important for them. Let me remind you once again that this is actually aid to commercial events, that it is something that is normally culture - the Ministry of Culture here in the Czech Republic is designed to be more focused on nonprofit organizations and serve the public interest. It's actually a little bit like when we enter the business area. So I admit it. And that's because one realizes that even in the field of cultural enterprise, there are events that have quite a cultural value for this country, I'm not questioning it at all, and it would probably not be difficult to list such events here. This means that, in this extraordinary situation, we are also trying to help those who are not normally granted subsidies, who do not receive subsidies from the state and who organize really successful commercial events that sometimes have quite a lot of value for this country and are, above all, sponsored and of course, live on tickets and often a large number of visitors who attend them. And these big events have just the pre-sales that took place in January, in February, so they have already sold tens of thousands of tickets, which, of course, is a disaster for them at the moment. If anyone wants it back right now, they'll collapse. That's it. And we come with this help. We've dealt with those involved. I don't want to make excuses for Germany. I'm just saying this so that you know that we didn't completely suck it out of our finger, because it was important enough for us that the European Commission wouldn't question it. And, of course, when we know that someone like that has prepared it, we know that they will not come across it from the point of view of European law, which is what I am answering this question. I think that we have been able to answer the other issues that have been discussed with the Legislative Council of the Government, and we have defended it fairly without objections to the government. So I believe it will happen here in the House, and I'm ready to answer the questions. I hope this whole place goes through tonight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u3	Thank you, Minister. The Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, to which the bill was allocated by decision of the President, adopted a resolution. We have it at our disposal as House Press 848/1. And now I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mrs Marcela Melková, take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u4	Thank you for the floor. So I will no longer represent this government bill, because Minister Zaorálek introduced it very closely and to the basket. He has said everything that is the guiding principle of this bill. I would just like to point out that this proposal really is a very helpful step, whether it be all cultural institutions, so that it does not really collapse financially, so it is a helpful step towards customers, i.e. viewers, to get what they bought tickets for so that they can apply them, whether this year, when this disease passes away, or next year. [[versus]] The proposal was also addressed today by the Education Committee, which voted in favour of this proposal. I would therefore like to introduce you to the resolution, i.e. the resolution of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports of the 35th meeting of 5 May 2020 on the Government's draft law on certain measures to mitigate the impact of the Coronavirus known as SARS-CoV-2 on cultural events. It is therefore a House press, as has already been said, 848. [[17.30 hours]] Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, following the reasoning of Deputy Minister of Culture, Mrs Petra Smolíková, and the report by Mrs Marcela Melková, and after the debate I. proposes that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies hold a general debate on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to close its negotiations by 7 May 2020 at the latest; IV. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that the Government's draft law on certain measures to mitigate the effects of the Coronavirus known as SARS-CoV-2 on cultural events be approved by the House press 848, as amended by the legislative technical regulation, and that is in Section 4 paragraph. to designate 3 to 6 as paragraphs 1 to 4 and to designate paragraphs 1 to 5 in Section 5 of paragraphs 7 to 11; 5. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Committee of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u5	Thank you. We will now decide whether to hold a general debate, which is a matter which we must decide in this case by voting. Who is in favour of having a general debate? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 154, registered 109 Members, for 67, against no one. We have approved the general debate which I am now opening. President Markéta Pekarová Adamová is the first to give priority to the general debate. Please, you have the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u6	Thank you for your word. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to discuss - if I am really not mistaken, and I hope that I am not wrong - for the first time a draft law in a state of legislative emergency, which concerns the promotion of culture, that, in fact, there is still no press that is directly on the subject of culture, and although I would like to ask questions that are not contained in this particular proposal, and I would like to raise only a few questions, so please forgive me for taking advantage of this opportunity, and I would like to ask the Minister of Culture about other instruments of support for culture. So I don't want to go into this particular proposal right now. I, for the TOP 09, sent our recommendations to the Minister a few weeks ago, our proposals that we are making in this area have not yet received an answer from him, and therefore I want to take this opportunity to ask what else is planned in the field of culture. I think we all agree that if any sector is actually very affected by the current situation, next to tourism, which has totally stopped, culture is that sector. And the creative industry in the Czech Republic employs tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of people. Other areas are attached to it, and therefore, when the theatres are closed today, one cultural event after another is cancelled and, of course, it will also take a very long time to get everything started, so it is necessary to give culture a real helping hand, not only the one set up by the state, i.e. the contribution organisations of the state, but also those who are in the non-profit area, who are private operators, regardless of whether it concerns the theatres, whether it concerns galleries, museums and many others, because we probably all realize that they are part of our culture and that they are also a pillar of it. We've designed a few specific things. We wanted there to be a clear plan for relaxing measures, with a focus on cultural institutions. We asked for one-time help from artists and people who are in the creative sphere. We also suggested that the funds that are commonly used to promote Czech culture abroad, which, of course, is quite normal and OK in a normal situation, so now they are actually illustrated in this direction incessantly, so they should move right here to help our cultural facilities operators, our artists, etc. We have also proposed a rather non-standard instrument, which we have called a cultural meal ticket, which means the possibility of providing a value - we have proposed 200 crowns, but it is certainly any higher acceptable for each cultural institution, on the contrary, to a culture for every citizen, which would give us 2 billion crowns in this sector, if it were the amount that we have proposed and which would be used by citizens for any form of support chosen separately by them, whether a ticket to the theatre, cinema, or even a book, because of course the book industry is significantly affected. We also proposed support for the purchase of new works, which is another form that can help not only the state, but also the self-government, for which we called on the Minister to continue calling on the authorities to take these steps. Of course, the current situation can also be used for longer-term plans, respectively. Reformer steps, for example, in the form of promoting private patronage in culture. I think that, for example, tax signatures, as works in some other countries, would currently be welcome support. Movie production incentives for filmmakers have also proved successful. We propose that such incentives be created for creators in other areas and that this instrument be used. Last but not least, we propose a reduction in VAT to culture so that all culture falls to the lowest rate, even those that are not there now, so that at this worst stage we choose the instrument that has already been promoted for some other sectors. I think culture deserves that, too. So many years in the world, in a very brief manner, the proposals that we have already put forward to the Minister. I would ask you, Minister, from this place, although I know that this does not have anything to do with this particular wording of the law, to comment on the further aid and everything else you are planning within the Ministry of Culture to promote creative industry, artists and artists in the Czech Republic, because we certainly all want our culture not to lose its reputation for coronavirus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u7	Thank you. Mr. Kubíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Once again, the procedural proposal to limit the debate in both the general and detailed debate for Members to five minutes. Then I would like to point out that 108 Members are registered, which I am not questioning right now, but at the third reading of the amendments, this number should be 102. I'm not saying if they're our MPs, so maybe then some sort of control vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u9	Mr Feri on the procedural proposal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I dare say 10 minutes to counter-proposal to hold it as before. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u11	Okay. We will vote first on the counter-proposal that has been made, that is a ten-minute limitation on speaking time. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 155, 107 Members signed up for 26, versus 24. The motion was not accepted. [[17.40 hours]] We will now vote on a proposal to limit the length of speeches in a general and detailed debate for five minutes. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 156, 107 Members registered, for 42, against 9. The motion was not accepted. We have therefore not separated the debate, and Mr Dominik Feri is next in the general debate, and Mrs Hyťhová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u12	Thank you for allowing me to speak freely. I really didn't think it would work. Dear colleagues, of course, I will not speak for more than five, maybe ten minutes, because this proposal is really the first to address the subject of culture that has been neglected here at the expense of perhaps more important topics at that time, but even this sphere has been significantly affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and should be addressed. I begin by saying that I support this proposal and I am glad that the Ministry came with it. I was communicating with the Minister, communicating with the Deputy Minister for Legislation on this proposal and communicating with representatives of cultural festivals who called very much for something to be accepted. And I don't envy the role of the Ministry, because, like with other proposals, here as a public authority, you're interfering in a private relationship, and you just have to bulge on one side or the other, provided you don't enter into it directly, that you don't directly enter into financial subsidies, that you just don't say: we're gonna pay you the tickets or we're gonna give you some money to pay those claims, those claims you made to pay back the money. I understand that money is needed elsewhere now, I understand that culture is generally a little bit of a cinderella, and that money is very hard to get there. And that's why the Ministry came up with this proposal. I've also seen the German proposal, I've read it, and even though it's inspired by the Ministry in some parts, it's going a little different way. For the image, the German proposal, for example. he says you can, or that you get a voucher, a voucher, and you don't get it provided you object that it's disproportionate for you to get the voucher, for some personal reasons, financial terms and all that. We in the Czech Republic have gone a little tougher. We said no, we're not gonna do it this way in general. Let's say it's skillful in terms of preventing any possible litigation, let's just name it taxatically, who can argue that he doesn't want the voucher because he's the subject of some group. Okay, I'll take it all. The question is whether in the future, since the Ministry of Culture did not ask - or did not ask... It didn't spend the energy to get direct financial injections into the culture, if it shouldn't be in the future, if it should just go in that direction. That culture is just gonna need the money. Another thing, and that was confirmed by the representatives of the Ministry of Culture, is the inspiration that we approved here, maybe you remember it, that was the 820 press, which involved travel agencies, where it goes in exactly the same style again. The travel agent doesn't have to give money, he gives you a coupon, a voucher, and then it just goes out in the future. The difference between travel agencies and this solution, and I'm not saying this - I've announced ahead, we'll support the proposal, I agree with it, it's good - but the risk I have to point out is that for those travel agencies, those travel agencies are insured against bankruptcy. If the travel agency goes bankrupt, the customer gets the money back. There's just no way to find a solution here. I don't think that's technically possible if it wasn't the state guarantee. The state guarantee is, of course, a journey, but probably not a political passageway. But if we say now, look, you don't have to pay back the money, and the festival still goes bankrupt, yet the next year will not be held or any replacement event, so it will be a very unviable situation for those customers who obviously will have to enter with an individual application in insolvency proceedings. That's something we should probably take into account when voting on this law. I took the liberty of submitting the same amendment to this proposal, which I also tabled to those travel agencies, and the proposal is very simple and was supported by the Chamber of Deputies and the Ministry, which gave a favourable opinion. I believe that could be the case here, in exactly the same way. And it's a briefing duty, a manduction, if you will. This means that the customer will be instructed by the organizer of rights that are given by law for a very simple reason. I think people will probably watch over these travel agencies, see if their 40,000-dollar tour is canceled, not canceled, under what conditions they get the money back, rather than a $500- or $1,000-dollar ticket. But even so, in my opinion, they should be taught about those rights, once again from the same title, because in the ordinary life, completely different concerns are being dealt with. You're dealing with work, you're dealing with some bigger items in your family budget, and I don't think you can follow the legislation that the House and the Senate approve here. So that's why I suggest you put in a very simple instructional duty. I've resigned a little to the rigor, which means there's no mandatory written form. From the point of view of the form, you just need to learn verbally or in electronic form and say: look, now the festival will not take place, if you want the money back, so there is some protection period that will end on this date, then you will be paid. If you want to use the voucher or the way of the voucher, you can lodge the claim, you can get the voucher, you can use it, there will be some replacement actions, etc. etc. Let's just make it clear and clear. I believe that this is something that - if I was talking about the fact that rights will actually fall out, the fair equality of rights and obligations in this private relationship in one direction, that means that it's towards the organizer, so this could compare a little bit. That's what the manduction duty does in general. There are some other things that would be worth mentioning, and I thank you very much, through Mr Hyťhová, for taking this up and submitting the amendment. It's good, it's specific and it's building something that's not quite clear, but in total, I think the design is good, it solves the situation in culture, but it's kind of a band-aid. Culture needs, without a doubt, more money. And I know very well from the Minister's personality that he is ferocious and that he will certainly try to find more resources for culture for the government, for all forms of culture. And please support this amendment, which introduces a very simple instructional duty so that people know what we have prepared for them here. Thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Hyťhová Hyťhová will now speak in the general debate, and Mr Baxa will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u14	Hello. Thank you for your word. I would like to say that we will support this proposal, but now I would like to comment on our amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you the amendment of the SPD Members to the Government Bill on certain measures to mitigate the impact of the Coronavirus on cultural events, the House of Press 848. The aim of this proposal is to clarify the part which sets out the reasons and deadlines for ending the so-called. protection periods against organizers of cultural events, including conditions and deadlines, which these organisers must fulfil against their customers. This is therefore mainly about the clarity of the wording governing the terms of the issue and the period of validity of the so-called. a reference to a substitute cultural event and, at the same time, a deadline for the date of implementation of the event. It is also a definition of the deadline for this replacement cultural event to take place at the latest, and at the same time for the organizer to inform the customer about its binding term. This is not clear at all in the Government's proposal for a law, or this proposal allows double interpretation to the detriment of the organisers. [[17.50 hours]] Therefore, we propose rephrasing paragraph 8 in Section 5 of this bill. I now look away from his incorrect numbering by the petitioner, which can be corrected as a legislative technical error. We therefore propose in this paragraph a clear formulation and separation of two reasons for ending the so-called protection period for organisers, when there is then an obligation to pay the customer admission fee. The first reason would be that the organizer did not issue a voucher to the customer for a replacement action within one month of his application. The second is the fact that the organizer did not inform the customer within six months of the issue of this voucher on the type and date of the replacement cultural event, which must take place by 31 October 2021 at the latest. The original wording of the bill contains the wording "did not offer a substitute cultural event to the customer within six months of the issue of the voucher', which clearly allows customers to request that alternative cultural events be offered to them before the end of the protection period. For example, if the voucher was issued on 1 July 2020, the customer would be entitled to insist on offering a replacement event which would have to take place by 31 December 2020 at the latest, which is impossible for the vast majority of cultural events due to their seasonal nature - for example, summer outdoor festivals and the like - or taking into account the time necessary to ensure the organisation of the replacement event. Therefore, if the organizer had not offered such an event or organised it within six months of the issue of the voucher, the customer would be entitled to request a refund of the admission fee. This would be a total liquidation for most organisers, as they do not now have and will not have the necessary funds until at least next year. Thus, this would likely lead to the declines of many organizers of cultural events, and would not do any good to customers in its consequences. They would lose their chance to visit both the replacement event and the return of the admission fee. Our proposal therefore brings clarity, clarity and consistency to the defined demands, rights and obligations of organizers of cultural events and their customers and is in line with the main objectives and objectives of the government bill. I am still going to sign up for this proposal in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u15	Thank you. Mr Martin Baxa will also appear, Mrs Kovářová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, allow me to take advantage of this space at a not-quite-long length first on a commentary on government measures in the field of culture, and then on a few comments on the proposal as itself. I, Minister, appreciate that you have actually submitted a proposal at the Government's meeting on 9 April concerning the partial compensation of cultural activities as a result of the Corona epidemic. I think it was very expected and very welcome, but I would also like to say that I think that the measure seems inadequate in the context of the next few weeks - on the one hand, in the sum itself. You, Minister, are a member of the government coalition, a member of the government who very often talks about the fact that it is right that state spending is increasing so massively, that the State Budget Act is changing, so the state deficit is growing very significantly. Today we are approaching 300 billion crowns. So I'm a little surprised that you're not pushing yourself to use this huge package against which we, as the right-wing opposition, have different reservations, from your point of view, more for the field of culture. Because I really think that would be very necessary and that the one billion is a sum that is simply insufficient. In fact, you covered some areas in your proposal, whether it be compensation for regional cultural institutions, I welcome it as Mayor of Pilsen, of course. I'm sure it was the right increase of more than 400 million in that grant program to live culture. And, of course, you had to compensate for your income losses in your contribution organizations. But I think that some parts of the cultural segment are still undercover. I have addressed a letter to you asking you to deal with a situation in the book market that is very unhappy. I proposed, and I would like to repeat that here, so that the government will allocate CZK 500 million one-time to support the book market for this year to compensate for losses in the chain of publishers, distributors and booksellers. Even if the bookstore is already open, under very strict epidemiological - or supposedly epidemiological - conditions. The market is very affected and I think it is a great risk for our country, where book culture plays such an important role. So I would like to reiterate my call to you so that the government will allocate CZK 500 million as one-off support to the book market. And there are certainly ways to distribute these CZK 500 million to the benefit of the players who are moving in this market. The measure you have proposed to the government and approved by the government is, if I am not mistaken, CZK 20 million for subsidies in the field of book culture, and that is certainly not enough. So that's one segment. Another segment that we have been approached is the question of the film industry, film incentives, audiovision. There I think there are also large reserves in how to support this area. And I am generally convinced that, as it is clear how government measures will affect cultural activities, the losses will certainly increase. I understand that it is not quite easy to take these measures in a relatively quick time, but a number of government measures are characterised by a great deal of confusion, urgency, frequent errors. I think that this category may include the publication of conditions for theatre operation. I think that the theatres that work, or at least those that work on regular subscriptions, can't really take advantage of a maximum of 100 spectators present in those individual performances, or a total of 100 people present in that theatre building. And I have already noticed that a number of theatre institutions have announced at this time that they will not actually complete this year's theatre season and will not continue to perform theater until the end of June simply because these measures are too strict and do not actually allow the good functioning of cultural institutions as such. So there, I think, will definitely need to increase government support. I call for this in the context that cultural institutions in these difficult times can sometimes be seen as something on the sidelines. But I would like to say with full seriousness that the area of culture is not only important in itself in terms of the values of cultural, clergy, which are traditionally associated with culture and art and which should be defended at all times, but also - and I think that this is often lacking in the Czech cultural debate - the area of culture is a major economic sector. And speaking of government compensation in this area directed to different parts of the economy, even culture should not be heard in this matter. So my second call is for you, Minister, to pursue as a politician, who welcomes the huge increases in government spending, to at least make some, even a small part, go into culture as such. And now for that own bill of promotion of cultural events. You, Minister, said it was actually a law on festivals, but it would certainly be good to say that this is not the actual wording of the law. It states in Section 2 that this law will apply to cultural events with a scheduled date until 31 October 2020. So the shot is much wider. It is not only about festivals themselves, but a really large range of events, when - and to this point my first question is: In what way will this law be applied if it is finally approved in this form? This means what will be the cultural event that will take place until 31 October 2020? What type of events will this apply to? Because I'm saying again, you were talking about festivals, but I suppose the same model also includes large foreign one-off concerts that will be held here. [[18.00 hours]] On the other hand, I recorded a discussion of private theatres this morning, or in the theatre community, whether these are also actions that belong to the regime of this law, that is, whether the performances sold in the theatres are also included in this regime. If they have, for example, under this law the right to refund the admission fee, respectively. non-refundable admissions, to be exact, spectators who have applied to the Abonma in theatres, because each performance is certainly also a cultural event. I think this is the great uncertainty of this law, what this cultural event actually means. Unfortunately, I could not attend this morning's extraordinary committee meeting, which discussed this issue. I don't know if that's where it came from. The rapporteur did not mention this in her intelligence report, so I will certainly, Minister, be glad to get to that. And now for the principle itself. I must confess that I consider the principle to be at least very debatable, and I would say that it is a rather euphemistic word. I had the opportunity, even though the law was only in the hands of Members yesterday in the afternoon, to speak to some actors - in this I mean really the festival field, and I see, of course, that they are waiting for some kind of government help. That the government restrictions, the abolition of large summer events will affect them dramatically, and that is when the organizers of these festivals, if I speak now in the diction you used, have spent a lot of money. And many of these festivals were canceled very shortly before, or were forced to announce the cancellation very shortly before they actually started independently. You have not shown any amount, I have heard from this environment figures about many hundreds of millions of crowns, which are moving in this area and where it is obvious that there may be some damage at this level, or such funds have invested in this area. On the other hand, Minister, we must say that this bill is, in my opinion, completely alibiistic in that you actually support or help - I think the word aid is adequate - helping organizers of cultural events within the meaning of this law is actually pushing away from the state, from the government and from the Ministry of Culture. The help is that this law will be passed if it is passed, and therefore you as Minister of Culture, the government, the state is putting its hands completely away from this sector. Because in a situation where you actually say, People who bought tickets and will apply to them so called. The withdrawal period, at this point, they don't get their money back, they don't get the chance to get the money back... I'll wait a minute for the Vice Prime Minister to talk to the Minister. [[Secretary Schiller from the bench: We put everything into culture.]] Yes, I'd like to hear it, Madam Vice Prime Minister. So you're actually giving them your hands away from helping them, and you're telling them whether to help festivals or cultural events in the spirit of this law is going to happen by using the funds they put into this "system" of clients of these cultural events, clients of these festivals, by buying tickets. I have read it several times, and I would say that I should read it up and down, so the interpretation really is that the amount of money that was collected on the tickets will now actually be used by the cultural organizers, the promoters to overcome the financial burden. I am once again convinced that I would like to say this here, to underline it, to emphasise with an imaginary exclamation point that, at a time when the state has shut down the sector as well, these actors should be helped. I think, Minister, that even in this forum or in this discourse, it is not necessary to mention in this discussion whether it is commercial or noncommercial, subsidized or not, it is simply some sector of public life in the Czech Republic, which has been dramatically affected by government restrictions, and that it is the government's duty to help it. But again, Minister, honourable members of the government, I say that, in my opinion, this aid should look different than that it will happen at the expense of the customers of these events. That it will take place differently than at the expense of the viewers, the visitors to the concerts, the people who have often bought financially significant tickets for various festivals as Christmas presents and so on, and also, Minister, among these people may be the people for whom this financial crisis today means that the thousand, two thousand, three thousand crowns are the money they need for themselves. And you're telling these people with this bill that they're not entitled to the money they bought for the tickets, and that they'll be there in a year if they want a voucher. In addition, I must also point out that, even in this area, solidarity has worked incredibly. A lot of people volunteered to keep the tickets, didn't want their money back, it was on some voluntary basis. Not only festival organizers but also cinemas acted like this. So I want to say all of this to the credit of this sector, which I know is how badly affected it is, how important it is, how many of these actions are part of our country's image and beyond. But once again, Minister, you left the support of this sector outside the state, outside the government, out of your competence, and left it to the relationship between the customer - the spectator - and the cultural promoter. I am convinced that there would certainly have been ways to deal with this situation, to talk about them here, to mention them, to suggest Mr Feri as well. There are various ways of interest-free loans that your office or any other authority in this state could somehow administer and provide and fulfill what is the basis of this matter, namely that cultural promoters have a financial reserve, cash that would enable them to survive this crisis. That is why I do not like this bill in the implementation section in the way it is proposed to grant this aid. Where I see the problem. That it's an alibi law that you actually call caring for these cultural events, festivals, etc. You care to the extent to which they actually do, or you force them to use the money they have obtained by selling tickets. Of course, the debate can be extensive in itself. There are events where there is no automatic right to refund the admission fee when the action is cancelled. But those are more nuances that belong to this business, and customers are ready for them. But probably not in a situation where the entire sector has been shut down this one-off. So, Minister, in conclusion, I would like to call on you to clarify why you have not actually approached a solution in this area that would not carry the costs towards the clients of cultural promoters, to the audience, to those who bought the tickets. And why you are, and I would support this completely without reservation, did not decide to support this sector in any other alternative way, such as the fact that the Ministry of Culture could provide any, I will say, professionally, interest-free loans to these organizers of cultural events, which would overcome financial inadequacy, which is actually the direction of this bill. Of course, there are various nuances, whether it is the definition of a protective period, whether it is the one that is defined as cultural events, but that principle, in my opinion, would certainly deserve a better defense from you than simply helping those who have found themselves through the government's decision to combat the Coronavirus crisis in distress. So thank you. And, Minister, I believe that you will not only explain what I am asking, but I firmly hope that you will also not delay your efforts to ensure that the very seriously affected Ministry of Culture does not remain on the brink, but that the financial support directed towards it continues in the coming weeks and months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u17	Thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová is the next one to speak in the general debate. Mr Martínek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, dear government, Minister, the current situation threatens culture in a great way. Not only theatres, orchestras and other wide cultural community, but also important festivals and cultural events such as Prague Spring, International Music Festival Český Krumlov, International Film Festival in Karlovy Vary, Colours of Ostrava and dozens of other important events. Therefore, it is clear that effective assistance is needed to avoid their abolition due to the bankruptcy of the organisers. It is clear that continuity must be maintained, not only because these events provide both cultural experiences, but also clear and proven and calculated how much economic importance and benefits they have for our economy. The Government's bill, which concerns the area of cultural events, is a step in the right direction. And we welcome him very much. And we welcome the Minister's efforts to say that we will not let anyone fall. And I hope that this statement, which raises hope, will indeed be fulfilled. This law, in its form, offers organizers more opportunities to return the funds they have already received or to retain the admission fee for the necessary time. At the same time, I must say that if this proposal is approved and we support this proposal, it is only a partial solution. And I think that the Minister and the people at the Ministry are aware that there is a need to find and legislatively propose a comprehensive solution especially to festival organizers and large cultural events. Why partial? Organizers face a number of problems. Festivals and great cultural events are organized continuously throughout the year and often with a view of the next two to three years in advance. This means that a certain number of people work for the festival all year round. However, since organizers do not have a closed establishment or otherwise fundamentally limited day-to-day operation, they do not have a chance to log into the Antivirus program, for example. Of course, this proposal does not take account of the problem of renting offices or other overhead costs that arise or arise before major cultural events are cancelled. However, the festival, if it was or will be postponed to a later date or completely canceled, may then occur the insolvency of the organizers. And that would really be a great shame, given the effects that I have been talking about, not only cultural experiences but also economic benefits. Another problem that the organisers have concerns the interest-free loan guaranteed by the State. This is very problematic for the organizer, because adequate profit must be generated for the repayment of the loan in the following years. There are clear provisions in practically all support programmes from the Ministry of Culture, Regions, Cities and Municipalities that, in the event of the creation of a profit from organizing the festival, these surplus funds must be returned to the budget. Here, the circle is closed. If the organiser is not in profit and does not have adequate liability, the bank will not provide any loan. Another problem is financial donations. If the organiser receives a financial gift to carry out the event, in most donation agreements there is a provision that if the event does not take place, the organiser must return the financial gift. This concerns both private and public funds. Another problem is advertising contracts. Advertising for the festival is made before the festival, but also during the festival. In the event that the action is cancelled, private companies will want to return at least part of the funds for non-realised marketing transactions. That's why I have a few questions for the Minister. How will the situation be dealt with, for example, when the Ministry of Culture has already, in quotation marks, added a grant for large events, but these have incurred so-called futile costs, i.e. the costs associated with organizing the events on which they worked in great advance, so whether these subsidies, which I already have information, have therefore been allocated, but are not yet concluded contracts, virtually. The organizers did not get the so-called limits, so whether they get the actual amount, or you will take into account and replace the organizers with the costs already incurred, of course if they prove them properly. And the next question is what other steps you will take to support and organize events, because cultural events are beginning to prepare for next year and are already preparing for this year, as you will continue to support this, so that they do not discharge, because employees have to work with some perspective and organizers have to have some guarantee. In view of the reasons I have put forward here, I will then allow myself to read in a detailed debate a resolution concerning the challenge of how you will continue. Finally, let me say that we will, of course, support this proposal and welcome it. And, as the rapporteur said, we see it as a helpful step. And I must say that we will support every step taken by the Minister to ensure the continuity of the organisation of large and important cultural events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u19	Thank you. And so far, Mr Tomáš Martínek is the last one entered into the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u20	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the organizers are turning to the public and to me with some uncertainty. There are still ads for some summer festivals, but the organizers still have no definite assurance that the festivals will not be. They need to know this because of contract partners, insurance companies, performers, where they often have the possibility to use lower severance costs in the event of cancellation by a third party and so on. That is why I want to ask you when the minister here said in the opening speech that the festivals would not be what they are based on in the summer. When I looked into the Government resolution number 490 of 30 April, it says that since 11 May actions over 100 people are prohibited. But there's no final date. That's where the times are vague. And if the emergency is lifted, it's only until May 17th, because it's a crisis measure. So what exactly does the Minister have in mind so that those organizers can actually use the one specific document that they send to the Contracting Party, the government resolution, or another one that he had in mind, which they can then use to make use of the very cheaper cancellation for them. I would like to know how it will be after that possible 17 May, if this changes to the Minister of Health's measures or how it is expected to proceed. Because I don't know yet if it's a specific document from which it would have flowed that, for example, in July or August, the big festivals can't really be. And even this uncertainty is still costing. When I walk down the street and I see the ever-increasing advertising for the August festivals, the uncertainty is evidently also with those organizers who still have the ultimate certainty, either that or that option, that they will or they won't, they don't. So I would just like to explain in more detail what it means that the government has decided that there will be no festivals in the summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u21	Thank you. President Zbyněk Stanjura will speak in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u22	Thank you for the floor. I really don't remember that kind of peace in the House. I do not know what it is, whether we are all listening so closely, or, on the contrary, many Members are not interested. My colleague Martin Baxa has already talked about this. Mr. Secretary, I feel like we're going through a lot of trouble. Now I don't want to say if the help is justified or not, I think it's justified. If you look at the exceptions in the text of this law, given that very often online sales are applied, actually anyone who wants to, will find a senior in their family and ask for a ticket. I want to ask if the government has considered, or at least the Ministry of Culture, a simpler system. In self-government, it's called the transition to financial assistance, that you just lend someone interest-free money. Self-righteous people just know it, and many of them just do it to their associations and nonprofit organizations if they decide and agree that it's a good thing. I think it would be a lot easier. This idea, if you look at it, it's going to have to be exhibited, let's say, at these big events, and we're both from Ostrava, so we can imagine one particular big event, thousands of people are going to write a request, thousands of vouchers are going to be exhibited. Doesn't seem like an easy solution to me. If you haven't thought about this trip, Mr. Secretary, an extraordinary one-year interest-free loan. Seems a lot easier to me. The moment someone asks for a refund, they would get the money, and since it would be a loan from the state, it wouldn't really bother the organizers, and it wouldn't go to insolvency. I find the system much easier. I didn't find the explanatory memorandum, I guess I couldn't find an estimate of how many actions it might involve - a bill. The law is written so that in theory I could buy a ticket yesterday or today and be entitled to the voucher. I don't know if the sale is still going on or not, but there's no need for March 12th, which is tickets purchased before March 12th, then it was very problematic. And unlike my previous speaker, I think it's pretty sure the mass action won't be. And I don't want to question it in any way. It just seems to me that the system is too demanding. You, Minister, said it was a win-win solution, but I don't see it as a win-win solution. First of all, the state isn't actually helping in this case. The state will give some rules and say: who asks, gets a voucher, there is some possibility of exchange, waiting, there are reasonable exceptions, and I do not question the exceptions, but the range of applicants for exceptions can be very broad and it will simply be very administratively demanding. Haven't you considered the easier option? Because it won't be thousands of organizers, I suppose, maybe I'm wrong. If it wouldn't be easier for those big festivals to give them temporary financial assistance, or interest-free loan, by October 31st next year, when they'll have to settle and pay it back. I think it would be easier for everyone. All the organizers, or almost everyone I've noticed, have actually declared that the tickets are valid for the next year. And it depends on each ticket holder whether he asks for money or keeps it in his drawer and pulls it out for next season's cultural festivals. So it's not a criticism, it's more of a question if we're not doing this unnecessarily complicatedly. Because if we practically imagine how it's going to work, then the holder of the ticket will really have to ask somewhere, someone will have to expose the voucher to him, there must be the details that the law says about it, that means the company and so on, the date and so forth. It seems too complicated to me. I'm not questioning the purpose of the law at all to help the organizers, because they just can't host them from the decision of the state of action. And one of the previous speakers here was talking about the risk of insolvency, and that actually exists. Because it's not just the tickets, there's going to be other costs and there won't be any revenue against it. That would make it easier for me to just borrow the money and the state is able to evaluate who it is and who it isn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u23	Thank you. Mr Marek Výborný came forward to the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to start by stressing that we will support the bill for the KDU-ČSL. I thank the Ministry of Culture and the Minister for presenting it, but I would like to say that I actually see some weak spots there, and in the previous speeches of my colleagues it has already been said here. First of all, thanks to the range of exceptions, it really can be used by all those who, and today it's in the order of really tens of percent, bought tickets online in a way, used to get the money back anyway, so here I see one weak spot. If I have correctly noted, the Minister spoke of about 50 actions, his gross estimate. However, this is a question that is really appropriate here, what I mean by the term cultural action. For me, it can be a very wide palette. And who will also judge whether this cultural event still falls under the diction of this law or does not fall under the diction of this law. Of course, these things would probably be good to clarify. But, of course, the immediate support to the organizers is crucial and important. He's dealing with the segment, let's say, of the festivals, as the Minister spoke about it. But I would also like to ask very much not to forget that culture is much wider, that it is necessary at this point also to remember the support of other segments such as theatres, such as orchestras, on which, of course, the impact is enormous. This law doesn't solve it at all. And I think they deserve it. And now, of course, we have another not only living art, but we also have galleries and so on, and so on. In my opinion, the government and the ministry should also remember these things. As representatives of orchestras and so on turn to me, the situation is not easy. And I understand that, of course, culture is only the last thing in a row that needs to be addressed in this crisis situation, but it should be stressed that we should also remember this segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u25	Thank you. Anyone else reporting? Yes, Madame. We are still in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u26	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President and Mr Minister. Actually, I would just have a point of fact, because I don't want to repeat what the previous speakers said. I would state two fundamental reasons why the pirát do not want to support this law. And it's already been mentioned a number of times for this, which is also at risk of aid to producers. And the other thing is, basically, the law only focuses on the big producers, on the big ones, but basically, those who do smaller, smaller events can't get any support at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u27	Thank you. Is there still an interest in the speech in the general debate? It's not. I am ending the general debate. Final words after the general debate? Yes, the Minister of Culture is interested. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u28	Thank you. There's been a lot of questions, so I'm gonna try to compare it now. Right away, I think I need to apologize a little bit because I've led the debate in a false direction. I was talking about festivals, and somehow I'm stuck. That doesn't fit the law. The law is really designed for concerts, theatres, for all businesses, so I've got you all a little confused by the fact that I've begun to create the impression that it's a festival law. And that's my fault. I'll take that as an introduction. Indeed, and it is also the answer to the question that fell here, to whom it is actually intended. It's meant more widely. And it's not just the festivals at all, even though it's true that I've been talking about them for a long time, what important summer events are, but it's actually more widely designed and you'll find it in the law that it belongs to the cultural events of theaters, for commercial events, for all of these events, where the sale of tickets takes place ahead and where it fills the conditions of efficiency, that's clearly stated who can participate. That's what I'm sending to the beginning to correct right away. That's a bit of a mistake I've made myself by highlighting the festivals too much. Indeed, the definition of the actions at issue is much wider. And it applies generally to all cultural events, to tickets purchased before the effectiveness of the law. So that's the first thing that falls on my head. [[18.30 hours]] I am sorry that Mrs Pekarová did not receive my letter. I sent the letter, I wrote it, I signed it, and I could probably give it to you right now, but I think you're gonna run out soon enough, and I'm sorry it wasn't. Because in that letter, I answered your questions. I don't want to go through with it, it would be easy to say that you're going to read it, and it wouldn't be quite nice, so at least I'm going to hint. Because you've been asking very widely in that letter, even now, about what's planned for culture. There were a number of things in your speech that you can find in my answer. Maybe you're talking about some form of help, some kind of receipt, or whatever you call it, a culture. I want to inform you that we, for example. We are discussing with the Ministry of Regional Development some common vouchers that would bring together tourism and culture, because it is very often used for culture. We probably have a summer ahead of us, where vacations will largely be domestic. Last year, 7.4 million of our citizens traveled abroad from this country, the number will probably be significantly smaller this time, so it may be an attack on Czech monuments and Czech holiday places, which is why we are trying to connect it with the culture. Even find a way to stimulate and even use our historical monuments, locks, that's actually part of something that is already being created at this time. So the idea that you might be referring to is being implemented in some form. And so when you asked in general, I'm going to try to say it really fast, because that would be a very long time, what we're actually planning. I would just briefly point out here that the culture had already received an additional 300 million in the first state budget deficit, one of the few, which it received in addition because it was known that the large investments were instantly hugely loss-making. When tickets to the National Theatre stop being sold or when they stop collecting, visitors stop going to castles, locks, they're really big losses. I've said it many times, 40 million a week, instantly, just those state fellowship organizations. So we knew that we were immediately growing this deficit. That's why I was glad we got $300 million on the first pass. And then, you all know, the government managed to agree on the $1.07 billion we got. And that's the straight money. It was said here that by this proposal, we avoid helping directly, that it is actually that we are off the hook, only to mediate in the relationship between the customer and the organizer. So let me point out that we have the direct means that we have and that we have the extra resources. Besides what? In addition to the 750 million that the Ministry of Culture distributes in subsidies this year for the area of living culture. That's 750 million for actions that are largely often not even going to take place. And we just don't cancel because they don't take place. We say, we're trying to use this money that we have legally in our budget to help these actions. That's the first 750 million we have at our disposal. To do that, take the billion we got another one. From it we have created other programmes - 440 million for different types of non-state cultural organizations, let them be non-state theatres which do not have their own founders, i.e. are not established by the state, the various types of publishing house that belong to it, and there we are actually creating a new type of support, a new type of subsidy, which is aimed primarily at ensuring that all these organizations can survive. Of course, we have a clue there, let's say, the proceedings that are going through the expert committee at the Ministry of Culture, because of them, we have information, we know who we support. And that's what happened so we wouldn't have to summon them again to speed up the process, which is why we used the knowledge that's in the Ministry. That's the 440 million. Another 300 million are there to support the regions. I have to mention this here because this seems important to me because there are a number of institutions of cultural established cities and municipalities, and we want to motivate cities and municipalities that will be in a situation where they could start to shorten and actually take away oxygen from those cultural organizations. So we're trying to motivate them. We have $300 million, and the program is that we say that if cities and municipalities report to the cultural organizations they have set up, we will help them, too. But there's a condition for them to sign up, too. This means the money to be used to keep the culture in the regions, so that the cultural institutions don't die. This seems pretty important to me, because the purpose is for this cultural infrastructure not to go away because of this epidemic crisis. Besides, we've been given more funding to the fellowship organizations, because the money's gonna dry up fast to last May, June. We've got the means to digitize. We have a program like this - 30 million to help digitize. Now at this time, when this form helps the existence of culture. Then there's one more thing you don't even know yet. I started negotiating with the Prime Minister on investment in cultural monuments. This means we are talking about how to strengthen investment in cultural heritage, investment in various types of monuments, for which we have resources, but which we would like to strengthen even more significantly. I would say that there is a measure that should go against recession. And since we also have some quite large investments in culture, it may be a valid part of the effort to stimulate the economy. So, in fact, this is how culture should become part of the effort to revive business and the economy in this country. I'm not gonna tell you the sums here, we're just talking about them. But I'm just letting you know, when you ask what's planned, it's also something that we're planning and planning, and I believe it's going to take a more specific form. There's one thing I'd like to poke out of this debate, too. I am aware that the Ministry of Culture in this country is conceived more or less as a protection of what is a public service is understood as a public service and is primarily aimed at those non-profit organisations. However, I still think that in the future we need to focus more and more on the creative industry, and that is why I have agreed with the Ministry of Industry, so I am negotiating with the Ministry of Regional Development to use the European programmes of these ministries and to support what is not the typical non-profit culture. It's not just this law. And even when they approve of government programs that are trying to help business in this country, I warn you that in a number of programs, when you ask what the entrepreneurs in culture can do, let us take Antivirus, when you want loans, so loans, if they are s. r. o., are a whole series of tools that are being created today by the government and which are intended for the very area of commercial culture. It means, it's not like there's nothing to offer them. This isn't the only thing they can use. There's also Antivirus and a whole bunch of other things. So let's not reduce it by saying that that's the only thing we've remembered about this area of commercial culture. That's a lot more than that. And the role of the Ministry of Culture is that when we approve any such proposals, such as those relating to the Ministry of Culture etc., we try to think about those types such as the Ministry of Culture, which are in the field of culture, and that they also achieve these means. This means whatever these programmes are planned by the Ministry of Finance, Labour and Social Affairs, industry, so that they are counted to be involved and those who are involved in the field of culture can also get there. So let's not reduce the aid to just a billion of those direct subsidies, especially for the non-profit area, but the policy is much wider in this. And that would probably be a much longer debate. And one more thing. I agree with that, for example, this area of audiovisual works and production has been mentioned here, it is also extremely important to me. Looks to me like there's something in this today that plays a very powerful role in culture. Audio... You can't say it with a towel, yeah. [[With laughter.]] Audiovisual production is simply a type that brings together a number of professions that are quite strong in the Czech Republic, and I think it is a great chance for the Czech economy and the Czech livelihood for the future. I want the Ministry of Culture to become more involved. It's been pushed away in the past. In the past, it was... Don't show me your watch! [[He's laughing.]] [[18.40 hours]] In the past, the Ministry of Culture has been pushing these programs away, Creative Europe, and I think that's a mistake, and I'm trying to turn this direction around. Maybe even the crisis could help that The Ministry of Culture is going to focus more on this area of creative industry, entertainment industry, because it creates a cocoon, which is also crucial for the level of culture in the country. So that would be a longer debate, but you see, they're showing me the watch, so take it with understanding that I'm cutting it short. [[Cheer up in the hall.]] I'm so sorry... [[Let's hear it.]] It wasn't demagogy, it was a substantive remark. I must remind Mr Baxa, who is not here, but many of the things he has asked have been discussed today on the committee. I have the exact information that went on there. So, in general, I wouldn't mind having fun here, but after all, committees are all about having these details discussed. So, Mr. Baxa, if he was on that committee, a whole bunch of questions he asked here were really answered. So given how much you're all enjoying it, I don't know if I'm supposed to repeat all the answers right now. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] No, I don't. There you go. And then Baxa's not here again, you know, so there's no point. [[Cheer up in the hall.]] He wasn't even on the committee. I don't want to touch him, but he's not even here right now, so what good would I do if it's the second time we've heard it, and then I'd have to say it a third time, 'cause he's not here the second time. [[Laughs in the hall.]] So I hope it won't be seen as a disgrace to the House if I say, I won't repeat it. [[Applause and shouts from the bench: Excellent! Excellent!]] I feel like from your reaction, you guys are more excited that I'm cutting it short than you're happy that I'm answering your questions. [[Cheer up in the hall.]] That's what I feel about this debate. But look, if that means that you essentially agree with the intention, the explanatory note, and the form of the law, I'm willing to shorten it. I can see you're not protesting. Well, I'd cut it short. Let's vote and I'll be happy!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u29	Have a nice evening and with priority right wishes to respond Chairman Marian Jurečka KDU-ČSL. I'll just ask Mrs Melková, are you interested in the final word as well? No. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u30	Thank you. Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I must say that Minister Zaorálek spoke to me out of his mind when he said that we needed to shorten it so that we could vote. It was beautiful how he analyzed the problem with Mr Baxa, and at the same time gave the clear answer on how to proceed. I liked that. But I'd like to get off here right now, and please, it'll be something unusual. And please the Minister of Culture, if he should pay attention now, because my speech and thanks are now directed at him and the Ministry of Culture, because I want to thank him for something that is not quite common in our political culture, namely that he personally and also the Ministry of Culture apologized to the former Director of the National Gallery to Mr Fajta for his predecessor, Mr Staněk, the Member who is here today. First of all, I appreciate that step, and also thank you for having been apologized to the directors, the former directors of the Museum of Arts in Olomouc. But it would be quite fair if the then Minister of Culture, today's Member Staněk, had joined this apology, and also the President, who supported this mediaally, because it would have been fair. I think everyone can be wrong, but if it turns out that the guilt isn't there, then it would also be good to say we're sorry, we're wrong. Because spying on someone in public space and losing their jobs is simply something that doesn't belong to political culture, human dignity, or fair behavior. So, Secretary of Zaorálek, thank you for that. And if Mr Staněk had taken a stand for it, it would have been great. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u31	Now... you perform with priority rights, Mr. Ambassador? Yes. So you perform on behalf of the ODS MP with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u32	Thank you for the floor. I would like to stand up for my colleague Martin Baxa, who has been sitting here honestly all day, Minister. I'm sure it's more common in the House than you do in person. I think that if we were to debate the attendance of the ministers of this government that we need here because we wanted to hear the answers to a whole series of serious questions, we wouldn't find them here, so it doesn't seem very fair from you, from a man from the government who leaves mostly half-empty benches here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u33	That was Mr Skopeček, and we can continue, so I am opening up a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. And now I see who signed up for the word. It is Mr Dominik Feri and Mrs Tereza Hyťhová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u34	Thank you for the floor. I liked the Minister's speech very much. That was a theater that doesn't need support here. [[Nesroz.]] Oh, no, seriously. I said we'd support the proposal. We'll support him, but I still have to have a brief amendment. It's not a simple vote at all. That's a very difficult decision to make. And the colleagues here raised the accusations and spoke penetratingly and spoke convincingly. And we have a hold-up button, but those festivals aren't supposed to hold-up button. They just have to decide if they're gonna give the money back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u35	Please, Member, we are in a detailed debate, so you should justify your amendment. This is not a general debate. And you don't even have priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u36	Yes, I will read my proposal at the end, Mr Vice-President. Thank you for the floor. And that's why we should take the decision. We will support the bill and add to it an amendment that actually balances the public intervention and tries to make it a win-win, not that the state washes its hands at the expense of the customers. That is why I am signing up for the amendment, which is here as House document number 5143. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u37	Thank you. And now, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová will come forward and prepare Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u38	Thank you. I would like to sign up for my amendment under number 5150, which I fully justified in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u39	Thank you. And now, lastly, Mrs Věra Kovářová is registered. Please, madam, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u40	Let me read the resolution that reads: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to I. immediately commissioned the Ministry of Culture to process an analysis that supports all possibilities of financing festivals and large cultural events and possible impacts if the organizer has to cancel them under the regulation; II. proposed a comprehensive solution for cultural events with an emphasis on preserving traditional festivals and large cultural events." This resolution, with the justification given in the general debate, can be found under House document 5151. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u41	Thank you. I don't have another application for a detailed debate. I, therefore, conclude the detailed debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? You're interested. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u42	Just a little while, even though I was banned from this place. In principle, I would support those amendments, I do not have a problem with them in principle, only I have a little problem with the analysis. Do you understand? What do you want to analyze? We're in an unprecedented situation, we're in a field that's like a minefield. This way we can analyze any other area. Sounds to me like we need to do something now. I think this is the thing that I have agreed with those concerned that it's useful to them. I can assure you that I will speak to them even after this law. I don't think it's gonna be dealt with, it's gonna be dealt with. I'll keep talking to them. We'll look, help. Sounds to me like it's gonna help more than analysis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-003-371.u43	And the rapporteur, is she interested in the final word? You're not interested in the final word, so I'm finishing second reading of this proposal. Now, let's get to the next press. This is about
