ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u1	11. Members of Zdeněk Ondráček, Jiří Mašek, Ivana Nevludová, Jan Bartošek and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 553/1991 Coll., on Municipal Police, as amended, and Act No. 269/1994 Coll., on the Criminal Register, as amended /house print 550/ - second reading I am asking that the motion put forward by Mr Zdeněk Ondráček as the appellant. [[Noise in the hall.]] But before I give him my word, I will ask the House for peace and a Member's patience before colleagues who do not want to discuss this law are taken to the front... I think peace is enough. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I present before you for a group of Members, the plaintiffs of the amendment to the law on the municipal police. I'll just say in a nutshell how this proposal came about. At the meeting of the subcommittee for the Police of the Czech Republic, municipal police and private security services last spring, about this time, we met with representatives of the Ministry of Interior and a collegiate of statutory cities, directors of statutory cities and the capital city of Prague and discussed the law on municipal police and the requirements of municipal police for the performance of their services. On the basis of this meeting of the subcommittee, there was a need to look at the law on the municipal police. In cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, to whom I would like to thank for the whole legislative process, an amendment has been made, which we have tabled as a group of Members across the political spectrum, members of the subcommittee for the police and, where appropriate, the Security Committee. On this basis, the government has issued its recommendation opinion that it has highlighted some of the shortcomings that we have eliminated during the legislative process. [[17.10 hours]] We are currently at second reading, so I would also like to thank you for allowing the second reading at this meeting, as I repeatedly asked you to do in the first week of this meeting. I suppose the amendments that we have drawn up as a subcommittee for the police will be presented by the rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u3	Good afternoon. I thank the representatives of the appellants, and now, Mr rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the discussion of the proposed bill in the Security Committee. The Security Committee, as a committee, first discussed the guarantee bill at its 27th meeting 4. 10. 2019, where he interrupted the negotiation of the bill until it was discussed by the subcommittee for the Police of the Czech Republic, the municipal police and private security services. This subcommittee discussed the proposal on 12. 12. 2019 and recommended to the Security Committee to give its consent to the draft law, however, he proposed several amendments to it. In particular, it was the incorporation of the comments made by the Government on the draft law, namely that: - in adjusting the conditions of integrity in the proposed draft law on the municipal police, Art. I point 5, was not included in the list. departures contained in the withdrawal from prosecution pursuant to Section 70 of the Youth Justice Act; - hereinafter referred to as § 4b para. 4 of the draft law on municipal police, Art. I, point 6, lacked the identification of the way in which applications were to be transmitted and subsequently copies of the criminal record between the municipality and the criminal record, at the same time in another place, e.g. Section 24c para. 4 of the draft law on the municipal police, this petitioner has anchored; - also in the proposed new formulation of the conditions for the removal of the technical means of preventing the vehicle from leaving in § 17a para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) the proposed draft law on municipal police, Art. Even paragraph 34, the term "licensed person' was used, which was largely vague and could cause interpretation difficulties; - the newly introduced act of offence pursuant to § 28 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the proposed draft law on municipal police, Art. I. point 50, was partially duplicated with the already valid and effective factual nature of § 125d para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) the Road Traffic Act; - and, finally, part of the second draft law tabled containing an amendment to the Criminal Register Act seemed redundant, since this amendment was already anchored by the petitioner in § 4b para. 4 the draft law on municipal police, Art. I. 6), which may be considered sufficient. All these shortcomings were thus eliminated by the amendments in the subcommittee. In addition to the Government's comments on the bill, two further amendments were made to the Sub-Committee for the Police of the Czech Republic, the Municipal Police and Private Security Service, namely a proposal to clarify the amendment when explaining it by a person under 15 years of age. In this act under current legislation, the presence of its legal representative must be ensured, but it is somehow forgotten if a person under 15 years of age has an appointed guardian. This has therefore been modified by the amendment of the subcommittee and an amendment has also been added that, if the presence of a legal representative or guardian cannot be ensured by a person under 15 years of age and the matter cannot be delayed, the presence of at least a worker of the institution of social protection of children must be ensured. The legal representative or guardian of the municipal police will then be informed of the explanation thus made. The second amendment to the subcommittee in addition to the Government's comments was then a proposal to refine the officer's authorization to use handcuffs as a coercive agent. Newly, the officer's authorization to use handcuffs not only against a person who threatens his own life, as is the current legislation, but also if he threatens only his own health, and also against a person who tries to escape immediately after the officer's intervention. So far, it's been modified so that the officer can only use handcuffs if the person tries to escape during the procedure itself. In the wording of all the amendments I tabled, the subcommittee on the Police of the Czech Republic, the municipal police and private security services recommended that the Security Committee agree to the draft law. In addition to the above, I would like to add to these amendments that all these amendments have been consulted from a legislative point of view with the Ministry of the Interior. The draft law, including these amendments, was renegotiated by the Security Committee at its next meeting on 9. 1. 2020. Overall, the Committee agreed with the proposed bill and with the amendments of the subcommittee to the Police of the Czech Republic, the municipal police and private security services, so at its meeting the Security Committee recommended to the Chamber of Deputies that it should give its consent in the wording of the amendments I was talking about, which are the contents of the Security Committee resolution in question, the House's press number 550/5. In view of the fact that the proposed draft law envisaged effective from 1 January 2020, which is logically now not feasible, the Security Committee also proposed the date of entry into force of the proposed draft law on 1 January 2021, even with a view to giving sufficient time to train the officers with the new regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law in question has yet to be discussed by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development 1. 11. 2019, where under the House press 550/3 suspended the hearing, and subsequently the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development discussed the draft law at its meeting 12. 12. 2019, which has been delivered to Members as House Press 550/4, where it recommends that this committee be approved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the guarantee committee, Mr Josef Bělic, and because, as has already been said, the press has been ordered by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, all resolutions are served as House Press 550/2 to 5, so I would now ask the rapporteur for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Jan Schiller, to take the floor with his report on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Then I'll confirm what my colleague said. At its 31st meeting on 12 December 2019, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development recommends that the Chambers of Deputies discuss and approve 550 as submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u7	I, too, thank you, and since these were all the reports of the rapporteurs, I am now opening up a debate in which I have several applications. As the first Mrs Nevludová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the subcommittee on the municipal police, I am also following this matter. In the proposed amendment, I propose to repeal § 4b para. 3 and 5, on the grounds that on the basis of conjecture or suspicion, officials of the municipalities and the Police Presidium of the Czech Republic cannot decide what is and what is not the establishment, promotion, promotion or sympathy with a movement that seeks to suppress the rights and freedoms of a person who is or is not a national, religious or racial grudge or hatred against another group of persons, in the sense that this interferes with the personal rights and freedoms of a person. This can be reliably decided from documented evidence only by the competent court under the law of the Czech Republic. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. In the absence of any comments from interested parties, the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the The phrase "found reality " is ambiguous. Thus, the proposal would become easily flexible, freely applicable to anyone who, for example, freely expresses their views on meetings, on social networks, on the Internet, in the media, etc., which allows a person to have the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. [[17.20 hours]] If the municipality had evidence suggesting that a candidate for the position of an officer, a waiter or an officer would commit a criminal activity motivated by racial, national or other social hatred, it would be an act fulfilling the facts of the offence or offence and would therefore be motivated by a prior hatred resulting from the affiliation of the addressee of the attack on race, nationality, religion, class or other social group, the specific type to be included in this category of crime is also attacks against symbols or representatives of an existing social system if they are motivated by a prior hatred against him. In that case, the municipality or any entity concerned has the possibility to initiate criminal proceedings in this case within the meaning of Section 403 of the Criminal Code, and therefore in the event of final recognition of guilt it would logically lose the condition of integrity, which the current wording of the Municipal Police Act already remembers. There's probably not a person who doesn't have a grudge against another person. Nor is there likely to be a person who has never been the target of resentment. Anger can be defined as resentment, anger, animosity felt toward another, which is the result of some kind of personal discontent. And here is the very fine line between resentment and free expression of opinion. If I'm going to demonstrate somewhere, like the people of the Million are demonstrating the moments when the banners with the gallows, written by Babiš, Zeman, is that their opinion, or is that their grudge? If I'm demonstrating against the march of Prague Pride, if I don't want to look at someone's bare ass, is that a grudge, or is that an opinion? There's a very thin line here, and it's dangerous to get on this thin ice. Another amendment I propose to repeal § 5a para. 2 on the ground that this proposed provision is completely unnecessary and misleading. It can be argued against this wording that they have a notification obligation towards the municipality in the current version of Act No. 553/1991 enshrined, on the one hand, by the law enforcement authorities in Section 25 and, on the other hand, this obligation is entered in Section 4a paragraph 4a. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 5 on the level of offense. In addition, failure to comply with this notification is classified by the officer as an offence pursuant to § 28 para. 1 and 2 of Act No. 553/1991. It is logical, therefore, that if the officer fails to comply with his obligation to report that he was finally found guilty of an offence imposed on him by the current wording of the Municipal Police Act, he will commit another offence, thus losing the condition of reliability and that is the reason for untidying the employment relationship. The logic of the matter therefore shows that the current regulation is quite sufficient and that the proposed measure does not need to be supplemented here, that the facts will be established by the municipality in a credible way. Moreover, this provision does not define the concept in a credible way and could therefore lead to the employer's being in the hands of a very dangerous instrument for his employees because of this wording of the law. At a time when all security forces are faced with a lack of applicants for these professions and long-term personnel bases rule, it is illogical that further tightening of the conditions of reliability and integrity of waiters and officers is taking place in the proposal for an amendment to the municipal police law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u9	Thank you. Mr Mašek should now be included in the debate. Before I give him my word, before he reaches the microphone, I will introduce you to Mr Jurečka's apology, who apologizes until the end of the day for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to my amendment, i.e. Mr Jiří Mašek, to the House press 550, which is registered as House document 4289. Basically, she follows up on what my previous speaker said. Here I am convinced that certain reliability of the officers of the municipal police must be defined. And the proposal is that in § 4b para. 3 would be the following: "Reliable for the purposes of this law is no longer the one for whom the facts found suggest that he has established, supported or actively promoted a movement aimed at suppressing fundamental rights and freedoms of man. " As a justification, I would like to say that in the present case this is a rather narrowing variant of the existing § 4b para. 3 of the Parliament's proposal for an amendment to the Municipal Police Act. However, it is a proposal that preserves the fundamental meaning of the originally proposed provision, namely the Institute of Reliability, which aims to prevent the involvement of problematic persons within the municipal police. This is the first amendment. I would also like to read the amendment by Jiří Mašek, Zdeněk Ondráček and Jan Bartošek. It is an amendment concerning the constables of the municipal police. Here I would like to thank my colleague Bartošek, because he had prepared his proposal on how to deal with severance payments, but after the discussion we agreed and we made an entry and this penetration proposal, where there was agreement, I would like to introduce you. In Section 8, the following Section 8a is inserted, including the title: § 8a Leaving An officer who has performed tasks under this Act in the main employment relationship for at least 15 years and has reached the age of 50 years shall be entitled to leave on termination of employment under Section 48 (1). Article 4 (1) (a) (a) or (b) or under paragraph 2 of the Labour Code; This does not apply if the employment is terminated by a statement pursuant to Section 52 (b). (f) to (h) or immediate termination of employment pursuant to § 55 para. 1 Labour Code or agreement for the same reasons. For the purposes of the severance grant, all previous periods of employment, when the employee of the municipality was assigned to the post of officer, except for the duration of the employment, which ended with a notice pursuant to Section 52 (b). (f) to (h) or immediate termination of employment pursuant to § 55 para. 1 Labour Code or agreement for the same reasons. These periods can only be counted once for the purposes of severance payments. The term of employment referred to in paragraph 1 shall not include the period of employment during the period of transfer of the officer to another work under Section 41 of the Labour Code and under Section 5a of this Act, except in the case referred to in Section 5a (1). 2. The allowance shall be paid by the municipality to which the officer is in employment on the date of termination referred to in paragraph 1. The basic amount of the severance allowance shall be one of the average monthly earnings of the officer referred to in paragraph 1. For each completed year of employment referred to in paragraph 1 over 15 years, the severance allowance shall be increased by one third of the average monthly salary of the officer. The total amount of the severance grant shall not exceed six times its average monthly earnings. The allowance shall be paid by the municipality after termination of employment at the nearest pay-out date determined by the municipality for the payment of the salary, unless the officer agrees on the pay-out date or on the later pay-out date. For the purpose of severance payments, the average monthly earnings shall be the average monthly earnings established under the Labour Code. Departure is not a component of salary and is not included for the purpose of determining average earnings under the Labour Code. [[17.30 hours]] Now to justify the amendment of the law. On the part of municipalities, municipal police have long been called for the possibility of introducing certain financial compensation in favour of officers, respectively. the establishment of a social benefit system for this specific category of staff at the end of their employment. Existing legislation, e.g. The Labour Code allows the village to participate in the solution of the issue in various ways. However, the legislation in force is not sufficient. The classification of the new § 8a aims to appreciate in some ways the long-term performance of the work referred to for the municipality and its inhabitants, the work of highly physically and psychologically demanding, which is comparable to that of a member of the Police of the Czech Republic performing a standard activity in the framework of the order and transport police service, if the officer's employment is terminated in a normal way such as for example. retirement, cancellation of municipal police or loss of medical fitness, etc. Of course, the right to leave will not arise in cases where, by fault of an officer, the employer's employment is terminated by the officer's statement by the municipality in the cases referred to in Section 52 (b). (f) to (h) Labour Code when: The officer shall not comply with the conditions laid down in the legislation governing the performance of the work contracted or, if he does not comply with the requirements for the proper performance of the work without fault of the employer. If the failure to meet these requirements lies in unsatisfactory work results, the staff member, let's understand the officer, for this reason give notice only if the employer has been asked in writing to remove them in the last 12 months and the staff member has not removed them within a reasonable period of time; in the case of an officer, the reasons for which the employer could immediately cancel his employment with him or for serious infringements of the obligations arising from the legislation relating to the officer's work. For systematic minor infringements of the obligations arising from the legislation relating to the work carried out, it is possible to give notice to the staff member, the officer, if, during the last six months in connection with infringements of the obligations arising from the legislation relating to the work carried out, it is possible to give written notice of the possibility of giving notice; or, in a particularly rough manner, the officer violates another obligation of the staff member laid down in § 301a. The right to leave also does not arise if an immediate termination of the employment by the municipality has taken place on the grounds set out in § 55 para. 1 The Labour Code is that if the officer has been convicted of an intentional offence for an unconditional sentence of imprisonment for a period of more than one year or has been convicted of an intentional offence committed in the performance of his duties or, in direct connection with him, of an unconditional sentence of imprisonment for a period of at least six months, the staff member has violated the obligation under the legislation relating to the work carried out by him in a particularly gross manner. The design of the proposed provision is ideally based on the provisions of Section 28a of Act No.374/2011 Coll., on Medical Rescue Service, as amended. The petitioner takes the view that the physical and psychological demands of the officer's employment are incomparably higher than that of most other jobs under the Labour Code. If the municipality has funds for additional severance payments e.g. for officials, it is more than fair to provide similar performance to officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u11	Thank you. Good evening, dear colleagues. With a factual remark, Mr Martin Baxa is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u12	Thank you, good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask, through the President of the Member, about the part that was mentioned in the statement of reasons, and that, Mr Member, is the part where you talk about the fact that municipalities are calling for the establishment of an institution of severance. I don't mean it in any way ironically or critically, I'm just really asking because I'm the mayor myself, the mayor of a city that has a big city police force that has 300 employees, a very important part of our budget is used to finance the city police. I would just like to remind you that there has also been a relatively significant increase in the remuneration of the officers assigned to the city police, whether in connection with a change in the government's salary regulation, when it was not only the general increase, but also that thanks to the initiative of the Ministry of the Interior, the officers were assigned one degree - if I am not mistaken - above the salary table, it cost us a lot of money. On the other hand, we simply need and appreciate the city police. However, what you are proposing is, in any case, a new expenditure from the budgets of the municipalities under separate authority. And so I would really just like to know what way, if the opinion of the Union of Towns and Communities or any other association of these municipalities was called upon to introduce the Institute of Departure, and therefore to increase expenditure from the budgets of cities and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Jiří Mašek, with a factual remark and two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u14	Dear colleague, thank you for your question. A direct answer to a direct question. The village calls for the quality of the officers to be the best they can be able to choose. And really, after the explanation at first, the municipalities struggled a little bit, you're right that the expression, let's say, neutral, came to that, but after explaining the exact parameters, that these parameters are one salary after 15 years of service, respectively. This increases to a maximum of six salaries, and when it compares to, for example, the severance pay that is given to officials after the work done, etc., it happens that I think we're in line at this point. And the positives in the selection of high-quality officers prevail. And for officers, it's a certain benefit that they might even consider entering this position or position as an officer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u15	Thank you. Mr Pavel žáček will be speaking in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, although we have discussed this proposal in quite detail at several meetings in committee and subcommittees, allow me to say in self-critical terms that I am still not entirely convinced of its necessity, although calling for the amendment of the law on municipal police is no novelty. The voices are sometimes heard both directly from the Ministry of the Interior, some trade unions, from the officers themselves, but also from the representatives of the municipalities. However, I consider it unfortunate to go the way of the parliamentary initiative. It lacks a holistic approach and a view of the whole issue of municipal police, which is definitely necessary. If we do not know the strategy and concept of the intention of further direction of the municipal police, which falls within the separate remit of the municipalities, the legislature should not spew on other and other amendments, which are simply unconventionally making holes in the shortcomings arising from application practice. We have been blaming this from the outset on the proposal submitted by our group of Members, to which I, too. logically, a substantial part is missing - analysis of the need and evaluation of whether the existing system has proved successful. If not, of course, the government, not the Members, should come up with a proposal for a solution. The proposal is characterised, despite labelling as a 'technical amendment', by a number of minor or larger changes, in order to clarify the interpretation of certain provisions which, on the one hand, can actually make the work of the officers of the municipal police easier, which I will not dispute, but on the other, raise questions as to whether some changes are really needed and not to give greater powers to the officers of the municipal police. The draft should be subject to a more detailed expert discussion, which will analyse hard data and not merely based on feelings. At the meeting of the subcommittee for the Police of the Czech Republic, municipal police and private security services, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior assured us that the amendment is based on the last government amendment and follows it, which allegedly means that the necessary data were already held by the Ministry of the Interior in the preparation of the government amendment, and therefore the parliamentary amendment is desirable. Yet no data at the meeting was presented and neither was the comprehensive concept, strategy and vision of the further direction of the municipal police itself presented, which should answer the question which municipal police we really want and what we expect from it. Union reps, mine. They stated - quote: "It would first be necessary to determine in what direction the municipal police institute should take in the future, what requirements the company wants to impose on the municipal police, what role the municipal police should play in the safety of society and the state, in short, what society requires and will require of the municipal police and, accordingly, create an appropriate and effective law to regulate its operation. " End of quote. [[17.40 hours]] I agree with that view. As with their other positions, when UBS representatives further stated that - I quote: "The law cannot respond and take into account only the proposals put forward by the large city police, represented primarily by the College of Directors of the City Police of statutory cities and the capital of Prague, but it is necessary to take account of the smallest municipal police, which are the absolute majority and which often have only a few officers." End of quote. In addition, it can be added that the issues, problematic and endlessly discussed questions and provisions relating to the municipal police are much more and can be found across the entire legal order, not only in the municipal police law. Please bear in mind that the existence and activity of the municipal police were from the outset intended only as complementary in relation to the activities of the Police of the Czech Republic and not to replace its activities or to delete their limits of competence and powers. Cooperation between the Police of the Czech Republic and the Municipal Police is certainly desirable, but we cannot accept that if the Police of the Czech Republic is no longer sufficient for some of its duties, we will replace its work with the work of the municipal police instead of creating adequate conditions for the work of police officers. Although at first glance it might seem that the tasks and powers of the state and municipal police overlap, there is nothing farther from the truth. They only have points of contact, which are currently and only local matters of public order and transport. For example, for the police there are specific tasks in criminal proceedings and related powers which are to hunt remote municipal police, which can reach them at most in the event of the detection of a criminal offence, where it can only intervene in the position of a normal citizen - the notifier, or may carry out civil detention of the perpetrator. The officer is in employment with the municipality, so he can represent the municipality in criminal proceedings on the basis of a mandate, but he cannot be subject to criminal proceedings by the municipal police as an institution. Officers' powers in repressive state policy are thus limited to documentation and handling of selected offences. The representatives of the Ministry of Interior further assured members of the subcommittee that there was no further expansion of the competence of the municipal police, but to refine the formulation. I don't think so, because if we just browse through the draft in front of us and find out what extent of the amendment is, it is clear that it is beyond the scope of mere refinement. Even during the negotiations several times it was said that the municipal police should have the same powers de facto as the order police service. I'll leave it to your consideration, colleagues, whether it's the path we're supposed to take. The arguments of the union representatives included some internal contradictions. On the one hand, they expressed concern about the growing responsibilities for municipal officers and the recruitment of police work and, on the other hand, demanded an increase in their powers even in the future, so that the officers could cope better and in some areas subjugate and dismantle the Police of the Czech Republic. Such schizophrenia is only a consequence of the lack of vision and direction of the municipal police, which is one of the important elements of the security and protection of local public order. However, laws should not be tailored to the security congregations and organizations as they wish, but should be based on a thorough analysis and not only on the need to change and clarify things. There should certainly also be no parliamentary initiatives for such important standards that may pose a problem in the future. Without a professionally-founded apparatus that deals with the issue in the long term, which is available to the relevant ministry, each such proposal will, of course, be a potential time bomb. The absence of a full commentary procedure, replaced only by a government vote, can manifest itself with fatal externalities, which will not do much good for the rule of law. Moreover, we must all bear in mind that this legislation is also intended for the smallest municipalities and for municipal police, which have even one officer. And although I really appreciate the work of local police officers in a number of cases, because they don't often have it easy, let's admit that the quality of some officers is not high-quality. That's just the way it is. They are not police officers who train and train the state at their expense and prepare them for demanding work that often interferes with fundamental human rights and freedoms. To the fundamental human rights and freedoms of all of us. To put it this way, we have as many municipal police as we have municipalities. And believe me, in their own ranks, they also have the kind of police they don't have to do, and that's why they serve with the municipal police, where they're not so high-ranking. Municipal police officers aren't here to subpoena police work. The Municipal Police Act was adopted at the end of 1991. The law is based on the philosophy of a time when the federal arrangement was still in operation and society was willing to absorb fundamental changes. The Communist National Security Corps transformed itself into the Police of the Czech Republic. It's been canceled. Public Security Auxiliary Guards, crime has increased sharply, and police have been unable to ensure security especially in urban agglomerations. By adopting the Municipal Police Act, representatives of cities and municipalities were given the opportunity to ensure a greater sense of security for their citizens. Since then, municipal police from B Police of the Czech Republic have evolved into a full security service on a corporate principle. And such a service needs firm rules. It is a question of whether merely checking officers by the Ministry of the Interior is still sufficient when we give them more responsibilities and powers, with which better control and responsibility must come. Some municipal police units today are not unlike private security forces working for the governing representatives of the community. As much as extending the powers of the municipal police, even under the pretext of refinement, it does not seem appropriate to me at the moment. I'm afraid the continued autonomy of the municipal police could only bring further deepening of the problem of uncontrolled and unguarded officers. There is also a question of what will happen next. Will the next step be to bring officers closer to the service of security forces? The Minister of the Interior should simply state clearly what he has in mind about where he will be heading, the vision of the municipal police, the position and authority of whether the Ministry of the Interior is considering central management of the municipal police units, whether he is planning a service for officers, claims, a change in social status, and so on. Can he answer these questions or better present a clear vision and action he will take? I welcome the discussion on the direction of the municipal police in committees, subcommittees, but also here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. But I point out once again that we are subservient to the government's work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u17	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Ivan Adamec is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u18	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I would like to respond here to Mr Mašek. Maybe even what my colleague Žáček said. You know, it's a complicated problem because the municipal police are, and they're controlled by the government and the citizens of the city, the community where the city police are. The fact that there's regular training and that sort of thing, that's what happened here. I think this is a discussion for a slightly different area, for a committee, and even say philosophy to the direction of the police itself. Just municipal police have anchored in the legal order of the Czech Republic and we have to count on them whether we want to or not. And if we don't find a different and better system solution, we can call each one of these opinions the way everyone feels. But what surprised me a little bit and I'll admit that I'm not identified with it is so-called. severance pay, and although it is conceived that after 15 years and so on. It kind of smells like something called business. And it needs to be said that the police and those officers were never designed to do that, so that one day they would end up in service. I think that any commitment made to financial communities in the future is wrong. It's bad because the cops are really serving on a contract. Of course, they have a complicated working order, everything has its limits. I get it. And on the other hand, I don't understand the municipalities calling for a severance package. If we want to have good officers, it's about the pay, let's face it. That's all they care about. And I have to say, now there's been a marked change in the work catalogs, and municipal officers have been assigned to a different class. And I'm really asking that we don't give the severance package by law. It's more of a request that you think about it, because any commitment to the future of this type can take revenge on us. [[Time warning]] I'm done. And I'd like us to deal with this in a different way, the support of those officers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u19	Thank you. So, Mrs Jana Černochová, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm actually going to follow up on my colleague Adamec, because in a number of cases, we're dealing with it in a different way in the community. We motivate officers, for example, by municipal apartments, or in budgets, we have items for rewards, where we always ensure that they are in direct service, so all of this is actually under the authority, today those mayors where municipal or municipal police are established, they have all of this. I wonder if it is to be dictated by the Chamber of Deputies, what to do. If they're happy with the officers' work somewhere, the mayor already has a motivational option. [[17.50 hours]] You know, it certainly deserves a huge thank you and respect, it has already been said here that, in fact, unlike some police officers, they go to these reviews, they have to demonstrate at regular intervals the knowledge of the rule of law, so I certainly could find some form of how to financially support their motivation in some further education, but as has been presented so far, I have a whole range of questions because I do not know where some municipalities will take it, and I would not like the municipal police in some small municipalities to have to cancel because of a lack of funding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u21	Thank you. Mr Ivan Adamec, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u22	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I just wanted to set it up because I didn't have enough of those two minutes. I'm sorry. When a community has money, it wants to motivate the city police in some way, so it arranges it in that time, in the economic period that is now, but in the future commitments, that is a big problem. It can really dissuade mayors, councils, councils to raise a body of city police as needed. I guess this isn't the right incentive to have the city police in the municipalities in sufficient numbers and work well. But what was said here by my colleague Žáček - I also think it is necessary to work on it, to change it, because sometimes I also feel that the state police are using the municipal police in place, and sometimes I feel that they are taking advantage of it. I don't want to say these cases here, because we've explained this in the region, and it might sometimes be worth more precisely qualifying for what the municipal police are doing and what the state is doing, but we're not going to solve that here at this plenary. To do this, experts in this field must meet and present us with some viable proposal that we will be able to support cross-cuttingly. I repeat again, raising salaries according to the economic situation - why not? If they're qualified, why not? I'm willing to hear it on some shifts in the city police hierarchy, but please, not the pension and not the severance pay. It is a bit similar, but the debts are regular, whereas the severance allowance is only once. But it's really a commitment to the future, and I wouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. With another point of fact, Mrs Černochová will speak. Before I give her my word, I will read Mr Lukáš Kolařík's apology from 5:30 p.m. to the end of the day for work reasons. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u24	Thank you. I would like to ask the plaintiffs of this provision, which we are discussing so much, how will it be in cases where, for example, a police officer or a professional soldier who has ceased his service and who receives claims from the state, i.e. within the security or armed corps, will join the municipal police. Fifteen years, another fifteen years, you can handle it. So if the claims are suspended, or in what way it will be dealt with. There's been a mention of severance payments, not pension claims. So just to clarify the terms. I am sorry that this discussion is not attended by the Minister of the Interior, because I would like to assure the Minister of the Interior that he will not take over the other powers of the city police, because the base, which is really in the Police of the Czech Republic, is huge. Only in Prague do we, colleagues and colleagues, lack about a thousand policemen. Only in the capital of Prague. So I've always supported the city police, the municipal police, and I'm glad we can establish them. I just really wouldn't want it to cause any problems for the municipalities, that, on the contrary, by having this new financial claim, it would mean for them to consider either reducing the number of officers or forcing the municipal police to disturb. I would really hate for this to happen. We are at second reading, we have the opportunity to discuss this with our district directors of the relevant city police. I'll do it. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u25	Thank you. Another one with a point of fact, Mr Svoboda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u26	Thank you for the floor. I have one question and one objection to considering the severance package. In my experience, retirement is a thing that calls on people to leave after 15 years. I have that experience. They, as they approach that age, a significant percentage will use that option and leave. That's the first thing. And the other one is my question. What are we going to do if I have a municipal police employee who has served 15 years, but every five years in another community? Who's gonna pay him? The last village he's in? Or the first one? I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u27	Thank you. I have no one enrolled in the debate, neither electronically, nor from the point of view or in fact, so I am ending the general debate at the moment. I ask the applicant and the rapporteur for any final words. Are you interested in the final words? You're not interested. At this point, I am initiating a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Please, Mrs Nevludová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am signing up for two amendments, which are in the system under 4125 and 4378. I have already justified them in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u29	Thank you. Mr Jiří Mašek, in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also subscribe to two amendments. These are in the system under numbers 4289 and 4379. I also justified them in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u31	Thank you. At this point, I don't see anyone logged in from the scene. I'm ending the debate in detail. I'll ask if there's any interest in any final words. Not interested. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. Since we have two minutes to go, I suggest we call a break by 6:00. At 6:00 p.m., we will discuss a fixed item, the second round of the Ombudsman's election.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-015-011.u32	Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we will be discussing a fixed point.
