ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u1	291. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 40th session of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of 33 responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. We still have 28 more responses to the written interpelations to discuss today. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpellation, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. And so we will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. First of all, we will deal with the intervention which was addressed to the first Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, who responded to Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's interpellation regarding the alleged sale of the Mercur Spa House in Mariánské Lázně. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 611. The discussion of this response was interrupted in the presence of the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček. I note that I have read the Minister's apology a moment ago, which means that the obstacle to discussion continues and that the hearing is still adjourned. We will continue by intersecting Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to Mr Miroslav Grebeníček's interpelation on the steps and measures by which the Prime Minister and the Government have so far responded and which the Cabinet is preparing in connection with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 6 June 2019 by which the House asked the Government to propose an effective change in criminal law so that the crimes caused in privatisation can be further prosecuted and punished, in order to avoid their limitation, including an assessment of whether there has been a situation in which the limitation period could not even run. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 659. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. The Prime Minister is excused, he will attend oral interventions, we cannot continue to discuss this interpellation. The Minister of Transport Vladimír Kremlík was intersected next in line. He replied to Mr Ondřej Polanský's interpellation on the subsidised fare. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 668. The discussion of this response was interrupted in the presence of the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade, and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. I'm opening the debate, and I'm asking Mr. Polanský... Is the Member present or absent? [[He's not present.]] If he's not present, I'm afraid Section 112 applies. He can't even be represented. That's why the interpellation is failing. [[Interview outside the microphone with a mug. Pikal.]] There's nothing we can do. With priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I wanted to sign up with the priority right, because I was also involved in this area, and I even asked Mr Polanský to process the interpelation on the very fare discounts, because from the data available to us, it turns out that sometimes those entitled persons who receive the contributions set prices in such a way that it does not correspond to the market reality. That is why Mr Polanský submitted the interpellation and in the interpellation he asked for correction. I would like to appreciate that, following this, the Prime Minister has announced that he will take action, and I would like to hear information from the Minister if he could comment on how this situation has been corrected. Specifically, Leo Express, for example, I believe, charged some CZK 1,200 for a ticket from Ostrava to Prague, so it was simply overstated several times. In essence, this means that the State then subsidizes 75 per cent of the price without corresponding to the market level. So the state is losing - according to the data we saw, it could be tens to hundreds of millions of crowns. And I'd like to ask if the Minister here could brief us on the actual information about the damage that happened as a result of the setup in this way. If any measures have been taken, for example, that the price will be ceilinged by some standard, such as the Czech Railways, the price of a ticket, or some simply standard distances, and what other measures have the Ministry of Transport taken to solve this problem and avoid repeated increases in the price of tickets. I'll ask the Minister if he can speak with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u3	Thank you. However, paragraph 112 applies, it is not possible to continue the consultation. If the Member has any duties, I understand. So we're not going to deal with this interpellation any further. The interview is next for Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to Mr Jan Zahradník's interview on energy security of the Czech Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, shall be submitted as a House press of 684. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. I'm reiterating the Prime Minister's apology. It's not possible to discuss this interpelation. Another interpelation is also addressed to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to the interpellation of Jakub Michálek in the matter "Could you please tell me what your program is?". Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 687. The discussion of this reply has been suspended until further discussion of written interventions, i.e. to date, 30. 1. 2020. We will continue the debate and Mr Michálek is interested in speaking. Only if I may ask, we've been through this before, sticking to the boundaries of the subject, although it's very wide.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will certainly stick to the subject, which is defined quite extensively on the Prime Minister's agenda. So, given that the Prime Minister replied in his interview that his programme is to work from morning to evening, which I think is still a standard in our Republic, I wanted to ask the Prime Minister, though he may be absent, if he could tell us when he will be arriving here in the Chamber of Deputies, where the government is to answer to the Chamber of Deputies. Because I don't think he's quite right about time in terms of what his constitutional roles and responsibilities are, and in terms of what he's really doing. We have now witnessed that the Prime Minister has basically personally begun to deal with matters at the Ministry of Transport, met with Mr. Vondráček and started to put together, or, respectively, began somehow to participate in the programming of the new system at the Ministry of Transport for the purchase of motorway stamps. But I believe that the Prime Minister should really focus on taking over the ministries by competent people and not dealing with the end-of-the-line issues at this level. Because then, of course, he spends his time doing things he cannot come to the Chamber of Deputies to answer questions from Members. So it will then turn into a telenovela, when the Prime Minister intervenes on the resorts, but as a result of the inappropriate choice of nominees for ministerial seats, because there has been quite enough of the personnel changes. Even in the Ministry of Justice, for example, where the ministers took turns sometimes after 14 days. Well, of course, the management method tells us that the program isn't going to be able to project into practice exactly the way it should work. I would now look at the Prime Minister's programme in the fight against corruption, because YES was created as an anti-corruption movement after all. I have printed here the publication of the Prime Minister, with whom he was running for the Chamber of Deputies, Vize 2035 for the Czech Republic, for our children. Of course, part of the program, the vision, should also be some implementation mechanism, so that it is not only on paper, but to project it into practice. In fact, here he criticizes his program that the perception of corruption is on the 30th to 50th place in the world according to the index that international organizations are building, and now we have again seen that the Czech Republic has offended and that what the Prime Minister criticizes in his programme is essentially being realized. "Foreign interest groups no longer need to break the law, rather to enforce its change and legalize their activities," says Transparency International in its report. And this is quoted by the Prime Minister in his program. And I think that even quite well describes what's happening now for its functioning. He's quoting the Whistleblowing Act, which they can't even agree on in the coalition. So now that the government has a majority in the Chamber of Deputies, they still haven't submitted the Whistleblowing Act they promised in their electoral program. It says here that he should help people who notice a violation of the law, that is even an obligation in the rule of law. "But if it's crime in a company or in a public administration, people who warn about it often lose their jobs. They're going after them, they're facing pressure and threats, they're going to be joined by anybody. And they may even lose their property." that is exactly what we have experienced in the case of the Prime Minister and those few whistleblowers, who have drawn attention, for example, to the way in which some agricultural subsidies are paid, how the rules of conflict of interest and the like are followed. So the people who pointed out the corruption were then eliminated without us being informed of the way the charges were investigated. Then there are other things about the prosecutors, which the Prime Minister has on page 113 in his program, which he probably also forgot. These concern prosecutors so that no one can interfere with a particular case. So far, the Act on State Attorneys hasn't even made it to the Chamber of Deputies' agenda. The Prime Minister here criticizes that they have prepared it, but they have cut it in Parliament, and now, of course, the government is doing the exact same thing again. She stopped the State's Attorney's Act being discussed. Then he describes here that in the Czech Republic there has been a complex litigation for about three and a half years - that is on page 114 of the Prime Minister's programme - six years when it is a business dispute. Well, we are actually meeting now that there is not enough capacity at the Municipal Court in Prague to deal with matters on time. And that's a thing that unfortunately doesn't concern only the Justice Department, but it concerns all departments across the government. This is because the Municipal Court in Prague decides as an administrative court of 1st degree on actions in administrative justice against decisions of central administrative authorities, if the seat of the administrative body of the 1st degree was in the district of the capital city of Prague, which is the case in many of those institutions. So in other words, a whole series of lawsuits and a whole system of administrative justice control rely on the City Court in Prague, which also reviews the decisions of ministers, to decide on time and to make decisions in accordance with the law. And there we see that, on the contrary, the judicial disputes at the Municipal Court in Prague last for a record long, even lasting as long as some governments' term of office. This means that if a minister, say, or an official at the Ministry gives an illegal decision, it will take four years in this complex dispute to review and repeal the decision by the court. In other words, this will not be decided even during the parliamentary term, it cannot be deduced from this political responsibility, voters cannot make decisions accordingly, and when this may be reviewed in the next parliamentary term. So in this way, there is a delay in the liability for illegal decisions. Of course, in the area of administrative justice, the non-enforceability is then linked to the problem that once the administrative court issues its decision, we do not have an appeal principle in the Czech Republic, which means that only typically this decision will occur, with the exception of criminal law and the right to information. Well, the administration, for example, maybe it's the tax office, maybe it doesn't have to respect the decision. Respectfully, he should abide by the law, but if he doesn't, there's no penalty. So, as a result, we also see cases where the tax office may give an opinion that the Constitutional Court's decision will not be applicable to it, that it will not comply with it etc. This, of course, is the second problem which complicates the supervision of the legality of public administration. [[9.20 hours]] Here the Prime Minister writes, in his programme on page 116 states that the lawyers he knows have calculated that only digitalisation would accelerate the courts by 80 percent. Instead of three and a half years, it would be done in 18 months. A business dispute instead of six years a year and a half. Compared to reality, the dream of digitization, in particular the electronic court file, which is the gross digitization, has virtually no progress since the contract has been issued, it has been cancelled, it is now being rewritten and the standard of the electronic file or the electronic court file is still not defined, so of course this point cannot be implemented. I also wanted to ask the Prime Minister how he would proceed on these points. If the Prime Minister's seat is attended by a Vice Prime Minister - I saw Mr. Havlíček here before he left, he probably went to run two ministries, I don't know - so I'd like to know the answers to these questions. In what particular way is the programme being implemented? Because I don't think this is a failure at the level that a resort in one area needs to be badly occupied and things aren't moving forward. This is a default at delivery level, delivery of what's actually written in the program to also reflect on reality. The vision is written until 2035, so one can always make excuses for it to be implemented in 2030, and between 2030 and 2035, but if politics should be done responsibly, then it is necessary for the implementation framework to be set up, tasks to be shared, etc. Many of these things are unrealistic, not reflected in the government's legislative work plan, not reflected in the legislative tasks plan, etc. For example, in the case of the Ministry of Justice, which I have referred to, which I have chosen as a specific example, so in this legislative plan of the Government, practically only the implementation of European law, so there is no implementation of any of the programmes that have been implemented in the elections. I would now touch on another subject which I consider important to mention explicitly, namely that the Prime Minister in his programme on page 117 is talking about the issue of executions. It says that the current system supports the irresponsibleness of people falling into debt traps, not all by their own fault, some of them have been sent there by an unfortunate event in life, but there are over 800,000 people in execution and we are in deep social trouble. I'm sure you've seen an execution map on the Internet. According to executor chamber statistics, we're pulling 4.5 million unsolved executions. Two-thirds are led on people in debt traps, from which we will never recover anything. About 140,000 people have more than ten executions on them. There are record-breaking stories among debt collectors that have over a hundred executions on them. How come somebody else lends them a loan? This is another subject written by the Prime Minister in his book, but unfortunately, now that we are discussing the law on executions, it is not clear at all the government's position on the agenda, because now the amendment to the order of execution is under discussion, I have discussed it with the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Justice simply stated that it has not yet been instructed how they should do it, which must come from the Prime Minister, from the leadership of the YES, to decide what form of executions they will choose. Again, it is a matter that results from a certain lack of systematicity of compliance, or from the delivery of the programme with which the Prime Minister has succeeded in the elections. And now - the way the government is watching it, I already mentioned that in my previous speech, which was interrupted last time. They have some kind of information system, actually a table in which they record the tasks that result from the government's programming statement, and at the same time they have to indicate who is in charge of the particular program, it is in Microsoft software, Microsoft Dynamics product, and there is an indication of the terms in which the ministries are to perform what tasks. So basically, a parallel system was created here. Compared to the standard instruments of the government's legislative work plan, as governed by the legislative rules of the government, and the non-legislative tasks plan, there is another system, which is, of course, not public and which obviously has a higher standard value than those of the official systems. In that system, therefore, it should be guaranteed that if the minister fails to fulfil any task, the escalation mechanism is defined, for example, by the Prime Minister or the Vice Prime Minister, or I do not know how the government is set up, I would also like to ask how it works, who solves the problems if they do not progress at the necessary pace. What is problematic, however, is that this system is not even transparent at the basic level, it is not public. Although I, as a Member, will ask the Prime Minister what state the individual tasks are in in that system, he will tell me that he will not publish it without stating a legitimate reason from which he does not want to publish it. I will remind you that in the Czech Republic we have constitutionally guaranteed the right to information, so we have guaranteed control of the government by Parliament, so if the Prime Minister has such a table and the table is basically kept for taxpayers' money, the system was also created for taxpayers' money, we paid half a million for it according to my information, then the public should have the right to find out the state of the individual tasks that the Prime Minister has promised to perform in a government statement. Otherwise, the promise-making mechanism is not effectively set up, and it is really just a promise on paper. In this respect, I would like to call on the Prime Minister to publish the current state of play for the implementation of the programming declaration. We, of course, as opposition, monitor how the programming declaration is being implemented in various areas, but I do not understand it - we have received from the Prime Minister to understand, the answer that, as opposition, we are to find out for ourselves that he is not going to give us the information. Well, that is, of course, a decision that is at first sight illegal, because it does not state any reason which is set out in Law No. 106 on free access to information according to which it must state that it is either a secret fact or that there are protected sensitive personal data, etc. No such legal reason was given in the decision. So this is how the government's programming declaration fails. As opposition, we do not have the information available and we think it should be made public, so that we can then talk specifically about why specific ministries in the area do not fulfil their obligations arising from their tasks and so that we can focus on the essentials. So the point is to set up some feedback mechanism here, that if there is a failure in the area of some ministry, we will be able to identify it quickly, point out, and responsible ministers will be under pressure to make amends, to preemptively set up the system, not to deal with it as the order for the transport department, that it is somehow hard to do with volunteer deployment - which I appreciate, of course, that someone is willing to help public administration put together some kind of information system in their spare time, but we all feel intuitively that the correct standard process should work differently and that the Ministry of Transport should supervise the relevant fund, the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, to prepare those contracts so that they will not be there and that it will correspond to some market value. Because the interpelation is quite widespread, I would now give room to other colleagues to ask about their departments, because I certainly don't feel like an expert on other areas. In my speech, I wanted to focus only on certain selected issues from the Justice and Delivery Department, that is to say, fulfilling the program, projecting pre-election promises into practice and monitoring the state of their implementation, which I think citizens should be entitled to. [[9.30 hours]] So if you want to comment on any other area, I think there's room for that, and I hope the Prime Minister will come to the Chamber of Deputies to answer those questions. And I think it's completely inadequate that he promised us he'd only come this year. That means about once this year. We would like to know at least which month it will be, when it will arrive in the House for written interpelation and comment on the problems that are quite serious. Because if we have 800,000 people in execution, it's not really a thing that should go away by the Prime Minister not coming to the House and not expressing himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u5	Thank you. I'll read a few apologies. Mr Helena Langšádlová apologises between 9 and 10 o'clock for reasons of work, Mr Marek Výborný between 9 and 11 o'clock for reasons of work, Mr Radim Fiala apologizes today and tomorrow for health reasons, Mr Jana Krutáková apologizes from today's meeting from 9 to 13 o'clock for reasons of work, apologizes from today's meeting to 11 o'clock for Members of Pavla Golasowská, the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch apologizes from today's meeting until 14 o'clock to the end of the working day for Miroslav of RichardBrabec he apologizes from 9 to 10.30 o'clock for Holík of work; he apologizes from Mr Jiří Mašek from 9 to 11 o'clock for Balaštíková of work; he apologizes from today's meeting until 10.30 o'clock for Margita of work; he apologizes from the working day of the Minister Stanislav Juránek for the whole day for reasons of work; he apologises Mr Marian Bojko today from 9.30 to 11 o's Toman. Member Jan Zahradník, then Member Ferjenčík, reported from the post.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u6	Mr President, colleagues. I thank Prime Minister Michálek for his offer to appear on his block, at his interpelatory point. I would also like to speak on the Prime Minister's agenda. It's hard for me that he doesn't find time in his diary, in his program to participate in written interviews, and to hear our reactions to his answers. I understand he thinks it's a done deal when he orders his officers to respond to a written interview, and that's it for him. He probably doesn't care about the same answer anymore, and neither, as we can see, is our response to that. I called my written interview Energy security of the Czech Republic and energy self-sufficiency. And I think that in this respect we have common views with the Prime Minister that we are in agreement that he is also expressing himself in this regard with some concerns about what the current, very strong green wave that is going through Europe could bring. He made his point, I said it here last time, in one of his conversations, that he wouldn't let himself go down to fanatical green measures that would threaten our industry. He said he would rather sue and argue with the European Commission about sanctions. I was just following an analysis of his answers, or his officials' answers, that they were actually not entirely in agreement with it. That they did not share this view, because the answer they had prepared was an answer that was purely in the context of all the possible green climate energy measures. I, along with my colleagues, have submitted these answers to his analysis, and we have found that a number of things that the Prime Minister may then be able to use to formulate his complaints or actions that should be directed at the European Commission, so if his words can be taken seriously... I don't think his officers did a very good job. The Prime Minister likes to talk about the solar tunnel, the trillion crowns that will gradually be consumed in the solar tunnel. Here we may be concerned that if we follow all these measures, whether carbon neutrality by 2050, or perhaps even sooner, or if we want to increase the share of renewables in our energy performance to 22 percent over the next 10 years, this could pose significant problems. And significant economic problems. There can even be an estimate of two to three trillion crowns, which was then a tunnel that really was a huge tunnel. I would therefore like to address my fellow Members for the ANO movement, especially those who dare to approach the Prime Minister and address him with their opinion to ask him or perhaps advise him that he should take part in the responses to the written interpelations. I don't know why he's worried about it. He probably doesn't want to hear any criticism. But if he is a politician, plus a politician in such a high position, then he should have the strength to bear even a little criticism. Colleagues, colleagues, please tell your boss whether he would find time to participate in the House sometime in the future, not in the next year, but in some other weeks. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u7	Thank you. Member Ferjenčík for debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I confess that I am very disappointed that Minister Havlíček has left, which is also the Vice Prime Minister. I assumed that he represents the Prime Minister here, given that the members of the YES movement voted at the last meeting that they wanted to deal with this interview without the presence of the Prime Minister. That was the decision, above all, by the members of the ANO movement, as a result of which we are now asking questions. And then another present member of the ANO movement in the government who was here today at the beginning of the meeting will leave. So I would like to ask Minister Petříček whether he will answer our questions to Mr Babiš's agenda, whether he is sitting here as a representative of the government to answer us, or is sitting here just for some formal reason to stop the meeting, which would seem a little undignified to me, when the government Members, including some ČSSD Members, have decided that this interpelation will be discussed without the Prime Minister's presence. Anyway, about the program. First of all, I would like to know what progress Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is making so that our people will not lose the 2,000 billion of lithium. So when can we finally expect the first funds from lithium? It's a topic on which the Prime Minister won the election. I think even Mr. Petříček, as a Social Democrat, knows something about it, that it really moved politics back then. After all, it said on the billboards: I will not let the ČSSD steal lithium as well as OKD. So in the OKD, we moved a little bit there, where today the OKD Committee will present its intentions, however, the lithium, which ČSSD did not want to steal, so I confess that since the election I have no news from the Prime Minister, where it is moving and when we can expect the 2,000 billion crowns. Because 2,000 billion, that would solve the pension system for about 20 years. So I hope our people don't really lose the money, that the Prime Minister didn't lie. He wouldn't dare lie to the citizens in the election campaign. And how he's working on it, how it's projected in his program. If at least Mr. Petříček could express himself for the ČSSD, if they weren't going to steal it, that would be unfortunate, because they're in government with it now. I'm asking for answers to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u9	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. President Bartoš. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u10	I would also like to join the issues of the programme and, in particular, the priorities presented to us by the Prime Minister, who is not here again. There is currently a big debate on the original government proposal for the recodification of the building procedure prepared by the Chamber of Commerce for Minister Dostálová. I would also like to ask the Prime Minister if he went to interpelations, as it really is, because the Ministry as a whole is talking about the fact that the matter with them is not even discussed, that there is a debate between the Chamber of Commerce and the Ministry on the settlement of comments. These comments on the Government's bill are settled by the Chamber of Commerce. That seems very strange to me. But in particular, it seems to me that the Prime Minister has somehow taken the initiative, as he does in a number of ways, and the Ministry of Regional Development, from which this law is to come, is no longer in charge. We have seen a certain dialogue launched by the Chamber of Deputies. And I am glad that Members are involved in working groups, where the working group, which dealt with the digital technical map to speed up the construction process, met with representatives of the Ministry and, as it turns out, the Prime Minister is not satisfied with the way in which the recodification of building law is being applied. I read in the book of the YES program about the smart cities, where the cities will talk to us and change buildings temperature, and I thought that one of the priorities is construction, housing is available, it is the efficiency of building management. Therefore, when the Prime Minister has taken an initiative on this matter and the Ministry of Regional Development is clearly only an obstacle between the Chamber of Commerce and companies whose interest is to build, regardless of the laws, there is a dialogue between Andrej Babiš, the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, and the Chamber of Commerce on this matter, how will we proceed? If the construction law, which is supposed to disturb those construction offices that are in the regions, wants to move them to some central office, which is judged by everyone as a complete nonsense that falls under the table, or we are going to prepare a new building law, perhaps in cooperation with that working group under the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. So who is the political partner in preparing this law if it is not the Ministry of Regional Development at the moment? Who should MEPs turn to? I would need to know these answers from the Prime Minister, because the vision of smart cities has one assumption that those smart houses, that we will build those infrastructure structures within the city, which is a condition for the development of agglomerations. If we are to speed up the construction process, it seems to me that the activity that the Prime Minister is taking over from the Ministry of Regional Development at the moment does not lead to this. I must say that the only crucial step in speeding up the construction process has been made by the House through its activity on the digital technical map, where, instead of the Prime Minister, he is actually fulfilling his dream, because he has negotiated support in the Chamber of Deputies and with the ministries, and at least we will have the digital basis in the coming years. There's nothing going on here. I would very much like the Prime Minister to attend those interpelations, because it seems that he is leading virtually every group that is concerned with some major change, although I do not think so, and he could answer that to the Members. Unfortunately, we don't have that option. When I look at the statistics of the House's attendance by the Prime Minister last year, both in writing and in oral questioning, it is truly pathetic. And it is not really enough for us to move forward in important matters, such as speeding up the construction process, to write in austerity letters with deputy ministers or ministry officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u11	Thank you. Mrs Richterová to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u12	So far, such relatively calm words have been said about going to work and not going to work, about the Prime Minister being able to face criticism personally, unpleasant questions, let him answer them. But it has not yet been said that this is an absolute disrespect for some 1,700,000 voters who have elected opposition parties, it is an incredible number when you think about it, and these voters have no chance of questioning their elected representatives. Let me just remind you that the pirát voted for 546,000 people, ODS 572,000 people, and we have to imagine these hundreds of thousands of people in the absence of the Prime Minister at interpelations. It's not just a number. Well, 24 times were written interpelations, arrived three times. It is not general, it is true, three times out of 24 opportunities for Members to ask questions and there was no one to answer them. Of the many hundreds of thousands of voters who don't get answers to their questions through our mouths. And I will give an example of a question that I have received in writing, I am grossly dissatisfied with the answer, and I do not have a chance to learn the specific reaction of the Prime Minister. It's something people in the third degree of disability ask me. Indeed, those on whom I think the vast majority of us here in the House and the total population of our country agree that the state must think of them in particular, must take them into account and take them into account. It's just -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u13	Madame, I would like to interrupt you for a moment, I respect that the subject is wide, your interpellation to this point is up, I think, three interpelations further. Please stick to the theme of the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u14	I just want to get back to the fact that we have legitimate questions here that are bothering various groups of people, that are being raised through our mouths, and it is impossible to know the answer, because all these hundreds of thousands of millions of citizens are ignored by the Prime Minister by not going to this one possibility in sufficient time to get to important topics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u15	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u16	I just wanted to remind you that we're not only discussing the interpelation, we're discussing the Prime Minister's reply. And the Prime Minister's response to our interpellation was that he was working from morning to evening. Part of this should be that it also attends meetings of the Chamber of Deputies, where it is intended to answer questions from Members. So, if the honourable Member complains that the answer is insufficient, if he only came three times out of 24 cases, then of course it has absolutely to do with his answer that he works from morning to evening, but not here in the Chamber of Deputies. The Prime Minister is a politician, so he has to go to the Chamber of Deputies. In advanced democracies, the Prime Minister is a standard when he despises the Chamber of Deputies and does not go there, so his own Members are part of the Chamber of Deputies and insist on going to the Chamber of Deputies and not despiseing it, because it basically shows contempt for them. So that's why, in those advanced democracies, in the UK, etc., it can't be that the Prime Minister decides to stop interpelling. This is exactly what happened here in the Czech Republic. Massive absolute ignorance of the Prime Minister's duties to the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u17	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is going to debate this point. Mrs Richterová. I apologise, factual point - Mrs Procházková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u18	I'm sorry to interrupt my pirate colleagues' performance. But as I hear it, I have a feeling that my honored colleagues on the pirate side could drive this state very well. In a few months, they'd fix everything, and it'd be really great. [[Let's hear it for the Pirates. Fun in the YES benches.]] I almost believe you, but unfortunately I'm looking at that Prague where you've already ruled for a month, and it's really not working out. It's really not going well! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u19	Thank you. Another factual point - Vice-President Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u20	I would like to thank Mrs Procházková for getting off. And they do not have to apologize to us, because the debate is generally intended for all of us to have fun here, not for monologues. So I think that the debate is supposed to serve to discuss these issues, in this case, to discuss the fact that the Prime Minister does not go to interpelation, he does not go to the House, which is to be held accountable, and he does not answer to it. I think that's the subject of this interpellation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u21	Thank you. I'll read an apology. Mr Ivan Bartoš apologizes today from 16.30 pm to the end of the day for working reasons. A point of fact - President Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank my very esteemed colleague Procházková for taking the role of speaking for the government here, because she is basically the only one here who has been able to speak for the government. The Minister is probably sitting here just to keep the negotiations from happening. [[Petříček, the only one present from the government]] So far, he hasn't honored us with his performance, even though some 20 to 30 questions have been asked. And I would like to wish the Member, given that there is only one person who is able to speak for the government here and answer questions, that her career in the ANO movement should rise steeply and that she can reach that government and communicate with us and answer questions when current members of the government are unable to do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u23	Thank you. Just a reminder - only interpelation can be appropriate. Of course, the Minister may take part in a debate with priority rights, but he cannot respond to the interpelation. And that's the essence of interpelation. Another factual point - Mr Ondráček, then Mr Pražák. We're already having this discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would speak to the only minister present. Minister, if you have some work to do and you need to do it, go ahead. I'm waiting for you, too. It's not gonna happen to us now anyway. If you leave, we'll interrupt the meeting and we can do some serious work in peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u25	Mr. Mr. Pražák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u26	Good morning. Only to fellow pirates. I don't know what they're up to right now. 15 minutes ago, or when, there was a written interpellation by a colleague of Mr. Profant, who is duly excused. Minister Havlíček was waiting for him, who could not get off. In turn, the Prime Minister is also duly excused. I don't know what you're dealing with here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u27	Thank you. Mr Lipavský withdrew his factual comment. A new one has appeared - Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u28	Thank you for the floor. First of all, really. Mr Polanský was not here - I think you misjudged the name of the Member - because he was on the GIBS Committee, so he had a direct job in the House. Anyway, Mr. Havlíček could have answered with priority rights, which was asked by President Michálek. And Mr. Havlíček got up and left instead. So that's what reality was. Anyway, I didn't know Mr. Ondráček was waiting for an answer to his interpelation. Of course, I find it inappropriate for us to block the interpellation to the ministers present. Therefore, I suggest that we interrupt this interpelation into further written interpelations. At the same time, please check out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u29	Thank you. I'm picking up a motion to interrupt. I just checked you out. I'm gonna ask you to re-engage. [[There are few Members in the hall.]] I've summoned colleagues from the lobby, in case there are any. [[Several Members are coming to the ballroom.]] They are, and they're coming. [[After a while with a smile:]] We're out of MPs. Those who could have run out. We will vote on the suspension of the response to the written interpelation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš until the next written interpelations. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 168, registered 77, for 40, versus 2. The motion was accepted. I'm interrupting this interpelation into the next written interpelations. We will continue to interpel to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to Mr Olga Richterová's interpellation with regard to fare reductions for disabled pensioners. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 707. Initiating debate. I'd like the lady of the house to give her interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u30	I will clarify what this is about, but at the same time, I really do not understand that once a week in the House we have two hours of written intervention on the Prime Minister, which, at the maximum of three Houses of Weeks, amounts to a maximum of six hours that the Prime Minister does not come here. What, then, do I have to answer to people who ask why, if they have a third-degree disability pension, a full disability pension - what if they do not have a so-called ZTP card, if they are not holders of this licence, they are not entitled to discounts, even if they are full of disabled people? That's completely unsystemic. And these people are talking to me about the fact that it's completely incomprehensible to them that the price of tickets has just gone up, because of the discounts that have been imposed, the price of tickets has become more expensive, so for them the possibility of travel has gotten worse when they are not entitled to the discounts. And, yes, of course, it has to do with how not quite well those ZTP cards are awarded to us, it is not entirely ideal, and that all discounts that are essential are then linked to them. But there's a bright side. Maybe Slovakia can do it. In Slovakia people with disability pension have discounts on fares. Similarly, these people with a third-degree disability pension, formerly called full disability pension, also had the same discounts on railroads as old-age pensioners until 2011. So I wanted to ask the Prime Minister in detail why he was unable to give me any concrete answer to why he didn't inspire Slovakia, why he didn't analyse himself within the framework of the government's decision that, for example, drugs, the limit on medical supplements is reduced to those with a third-degree disability pension, so they are recognised as a vulnerable group of people, they have a reduced limit on the supplement to medicines by this government, but they are absolutely not entitled to discount on the fare if they don't have a ZTP card. I've been asking for months. Those people have been asking about this since the introduction of the so-called flat-rate discounts, which are no flat-rate discounts. [[10.00 hours]] And then the Prime Minister is unable to come here for two hours a week during the House meeting and answer me why in the so-called. the answer is not the only concrete expression, the only concrete indication of when they will deal with it, who will deal with it, and if, by any chance, they are not just going to shut up and wait for it. So I propose a break to the Prime Minister's presence, and at the same time I have no idea why these - we do not have precise figures, but they are certainly tens of thousands of people - why in this way this government does not intend to meet them in any way and address their situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u31	Thank you. Madame, the Vice-President would like to respond with priority rights, so I ask if this is okay, and then we would vote on interruption.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u32	Thank you, Mr President, I will be brief. I was listening to the first part of the debate, and now I'm listening to my colleague's interpellation with the fact that she's talking about the system and the unsystematicness. Well, in that case, I don't understand what's systemic about intersecting the Prime Minister when he's asking questions that a completely different minister has in his department. If this is the objective of pirates to prevent all other Members from taking advantage of their right to interpel, and they have to wait here for pirates to testify against the absent prime minister, then don't be angry with me, you are depreciating Article 53 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic with your disgusting display in this House! I can't listen to this! That's really disgusting! Then you know how it is, so ask those who are responsible. If the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is present, is waiting for him to respond to the written interpelation of another Member. You're not the only ones here! Other Members, too, have their constituents and have the right to ask questions! Then ask those who are responsible in the government!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u33	Thank you. I have two factual points here. Would I have made factual remarks, or would you like to vote on the interruption, Madame? Do you want to vote now, or do we leave the facts? So we're going to make some factual remarks, and then we're going to vote on interrupting the point. In that case, first Mr Bartoš, then Mr Lipavský, then Mrs Richterová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u34	I would just like to ask, through the President, the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, President of the KSČM Filip, not to judge the deputies that were factual in the way he presented them. [[He speaks very strongly.]] I don't know what was disgusting about Olga Richterová's question about handicapped people and fare discounts. How she used her time or your time, as you said here. The Prime Minister himself takes the reins, comments on all things, presents that he has arranged, Mr. Andrej Babiš has arranged for pensioners, seniors and students to discount the fare. So if Olga Richterová is getting to the point, let her democratically choose who she's interpelling on this matter. The Prime Minister has invented this success, in quotation marks, this tunnel called really, himself, so please do not evaluate your colleagues' emotionally and dirty performances! I also do not express myself when you say something that I do not agree with, so that I would throw down your entire performance and use some more emotional, perhaps even often vile performances to do so. And I could, given the things that are being said here by your Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u35	Thank you. There's been an increase in real notes. In general, I ask everyone to try to maintain some level of factual remarks. Mr Lipavský, Mrs Richterová will be ready, then Mr Plzák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies has just shown is the absolute pinnacle of demagogy! Because if anyone here despises the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, it is the Prime Minister of the Government of the Czech Republic who rules with your support, Mr. Vice-President Filip through the President, who did not come here to answer the questions! And, of course, it is absolutely relevant to ask the Prime Minister every question, because he is the Prime Minister, he is responsible for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u37	Thank you. Mrs Richterová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u38	One more factual clarification of the additions. The fare discounts are fully followed by the Prime Minister's decision. That's why it's a topic where it's up to his decision to expand the group of people. He didn't say anything about it in the answer, but those people asked him, documented, many times. There is also a direct video of him at a public event where he took the train and could ask him directly about this people with a disability pension, asking him. So here are many months of trying when there was no concrete answer. And to that account, I guess I took the liberty, from some point of view, to point out that this is an objective big problem. That the discounts are only seemingly flat and that it is the Prime Minister's responsibility to handle this. So many more details for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u39	Thank you. Another factual one, Mr Plzák. Or is it a log-in error? Mr Plzák has applied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u40	Thank you, good morning. I am merely to Mr Bartoš, through Mr President: you do not have to yell at us so much. It's really, you're gonna yell out the headphones that I have in my ears.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u41	Thank you. With a factual remark, Vice-President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u42	Thank you and I respond with my point of fact to the appearance of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip. Mr Vice-President, through Mr President, the Constitution of the Czech Republic, which you refer to, gives special powers and privileged status to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic in the matter of the Government's organisation. And it explicitly states that the Prime Minister is organising the government's activities and acting on its behalf. It also gives him special powers. This means that it is perfectly okay for Members to turn to the Prime Minister with any questions relating to the Government's activities. They don't have to turn to individual ministers. They turn to the Prime Minister who acts on her behalf. It is logical and I do not think that there is a need in this regard, and it is not even possible, nor possible, for Members to be admonished. They act completely in accordance with the Constitution, the Constitutional Order of the Czech Republic and the logic of the political system of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u43	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Bělobrádek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u44	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, co-workers, the point is, the Prime Minister's been to Litvinov for hockey this morning or something, so I don't think he can be here. So it's obvious what his priorities are. And the second thing is about what we're talking about here. Of course, the Prime Minister is responsible for the entire government, he's organizing it, he's responsible for the fact that we've had a lot of laws here yesterday because he's not able to manage the government so that either ministers or government members are here, or there's a written mandate. That's his responsibility, too. And if I can stand up for President Bartoš, I believe that he is only a speaker who can speak clearly and loudly enough, which is not everyone's success. And the other thing. If anyone's yelling, they're different. And I will be happy to see Mr Plzák, through the President, rearrange the others, including his President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u45	Thank you. A point of fact, Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u46	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. I didn't come here to stand up for the Prime Minister for not coming to interpellation. I have come to stand up for other colleagues who have the same right - also to have a question answered to that written interview. What's going on here, the Republicans showed their time from 1996 to 1998. Citizens rewarded that by not being elected to the Chamber of Deputies in 1998. And since then, the only thing we've got to do is draw a lot in verbal plotting to get to the rest of them. But we really can't draw any tickets for written interviews yet. Or we will have to change the Rules of Procedure so that everyone has the same right. It's not like a club here is gonna have 22 written interviews on the same subject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u47	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, factual point. I'll read an apology. Mr Václav Votava apologizes for today's meeting for work reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u48	Thank you for the floor. Two facts concerning Mr. Vice-President Filip. First of all, reacting when my colleague Richterová suggested that she interrupt her interpellation that we're blocking the others here, I find it completely out of the question. Secondly, we are going to propose a merged debate with our 22 interventions so that we do not block anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u49	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. With regard to the merged debate, this is the proposal that fell only after the interruption has been proposed, so we will vote in order as the individual procedural proposals have been tabled. Well, first of all, a motion to interrupt this interpellation. With priority rights, Mr Michálek. Mr President, before I give you my word, I apologize to the Minister of Education Robert Plaga from today's and tomorrow's meeting, which means how to today's 30. 1st, Friday, January 31st, for work reasons. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u50	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I think there may have been a mix-up in your recapitulation, because the proposal for a merged debate concerns the interventions submitted by the members of our club to attend the Prime Minister's written interpelations, not this interpelation. This means, I suppose, that the proposal to merge the debate should be made at the moment when the first of the interventions in question is discussed. So now we're going to vote on this procedural proposal to interrupt this interpelation, and the next procedural proposal will only be heard when the relevant point is opened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I felt that way, but it was given in this interpelation, and there's nothing left to do but call on me to open another interpelation after the point is interrupted, because that's what it really is. Well, unless my colleague Ferjenčík suggested it, I'll deal with it in a procedural manner. Now, with priority rights, Vice-President Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u52	I believe my colleague Ferjenčík didn't suggest anything, he merely announced that he would propose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u53	All the better. We've got a simpler situation. Now, therefore, there is a proposal to interrupt Mrs Olga Richterová's interpellation, House Press 707. I'll check you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with ID cards. Once the number of applications has been settled, we will decide on a proposal to suspend the 707, interpellation of Mrs Olga Richterová to the Prime Minister. I've started voting 168 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 168. Of the 183 present for 44, versus 2. The proposal was accepted and the question was interrupted by the Prime Minister's presence. We have another interview ahead of us, namely the interpellation of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček, who answered the question of support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the defence forces of youth. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 708. Initiating debate. I see Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Before I begin, allow me to thank the Pirates Club for proposing to interrupt both interpelations, and, if they have noticed, with the support of the KSČM Club, your interpellations have been interrupted and you have made it possible to discuss the interpellings and those behind you. So thank you again for this approach. And now for the interpelation itself. On 11 December I turned to the Minister of Foreign Affairs in connection with the request for information concerning support from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the Branches of Youth, z. s., with the fact that at that time, on 11 December, I had some information about the activities of the Branches, I studied their website or social networks, and although everything seems to be so-called innocent acting as soldiers, I was surprised by some things there, which, given that I also deal with the security of the Czech Republic and at present, or will soon be discussing when the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Mr Hamáček will be present one day at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the House Press No. 92 and the House Press No. 669, which is the arms directive and the arms law. In this matter, and I think that if someone looked at this interpelation, or looked up and read some things there, there are also references to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and given that from the social networks and from what can be traced, it is clear that these Branches are going to practice their young cadets, goals, abroad, especially Ukraine, so I asked the Minister what he knows about the activities of these Branches. And the Minister answered me - and of course another answer, and I will only try the first question at such a first shot, and then I will see where we will move on - very, very briefly, but, of course, factually, as I briefly asked, he replied that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has no information about the activities of the BROML, that is, those Branches of Youth, apart from the commonly available information from open sources and one dedicated report from 2019 received by the relevant departments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is not quite as if it has no information, if it already has one information, at least here in the regime reserved, and so I will, before we move on, see how I will continue to torment the Minister in this matter, ask who was the author of the dedicated report and whether the addressee was only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the relevant trade unions, or whether it was addressed to other addressees, and then I will apply to the next debate. So for now, if I may, I'll ask the Minister for his reply and then I'll sign up for another discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u55	I thank Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. The Minister is ready for an answer. Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic Tomáš Petříček has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u56	Mr President, honourable Members, in response to Mr Ondráček's question. In a written reply to your interpelation, I have actually provided all the information the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has on the registered association of the Branch of Youth. As a matter of fact, I didn't learn about this group until after your interpellation. Until then, I didn't know there was such a thing. Then, from verified sources, I verified that it was an association with about 70 members, and in this regard I only found that he had visited the Chamber of Deputies at the invitation of the members of the defence committee. So even in this regard, it is possible, Mr Member, to ask in more detail your colleagues from the Defence Committee who have met with these young people. With regard to the cooperation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with this association, I can say that on the basis of the verification of all information with the Ministry's staff, including our embassies, I have no information that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would cooperate with this registered association in any way. [[10.20 hours]] As far as the information available to us is concerned, it is not intelligence services, but it is internal material in this regard, which does not indicate anything that we would take seriously. I have also asked our partners in the intelligence community on the basis of your questions, if I may provide information. Neither the UZSI nor the Military Intelligence provided us with any additional information. I don't know if at least the first part of your question was answered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u57	Yes, thank you, Minister. My colleague Ondráček is still reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u58	Minister, you're not answering the simple question I asked me about who was the author of the reserved document or whether there were more addressees, but I'm going to assume that it wasn't one of the secret services, so it could have been something inside the resort, and you kept that information from yourself. Since it's classified material, we're not discussing it. I will agree with you that I will probably get to know the material, because as a Member, I suppose I have the opportunity to get to know the materials that are in grade or under cover. You started talking about the commune, basically what it is, et cetera. Okay, if we want to talk about this, let's talk about it. The BROML Association was founded 11. 4. 2017 by a founding member, the association has one member according to the register. One member. You're putting in 70. Yes, if you look at the pages, they're talking about gathering about 70 children between the ages of 10 and 18. Since I suppose it will be very soon to discuss some things, I have asked you this precisely because of the reason abroad, because you have good relations with Ukraine, and if I look at those pages and see there that these children aged 10 to 18 years go to Ukraine and are trained by military or paramilitary units, it does not leave me completely calm because when I look at the registered association, it is written who we are, on the site, and you can read it publicly. We are defence forces, we are a voluntary, independent and non-political society whose mission and purpose is the mutual universal development of the personality of children, youth and adults, their education for active citizenship, responsibility for people, society, strengthening their knowledge and building responsibility for the defence of the homeland, preparation for emergency and crisis situations. The activity is mainly a year-round work with children, youth, which takes place within the section focusing on defence and social activities, such as. history, health science, outdoors, sports, social ethics. Where necessary, members may contribute by their knowledge and means to the salvation of persons or property. And what are we dealing with? Tactics: We are learning the military tactics we apply in airsoft games - airsoft games! - and combat simulations. Weapons, another item: We find out how weapons work by taking them apart and learning how to manipulate weapons safely. Of course, all this pleases, and it is a godly activity. This is confirmed also by the fact that the former Minister of Defence, Mr Stropnický, and a colleague of former Minister Karla Šlechtová, accepted these defence societies. You mentioned that they were adopted here in the Chamber of Deputies by the Defence Committee. You're all right, and all that can be traced. So I guess this is the right thing to do, and we're going to imagine it, and you're saying what it's all about, because that's okay. Kids don't hang around the computer, play with their phones, and finally do something. They run somewhere in camouflage in the woods, perfect themselves physically, etc. Yes. I'm sure I'd support it, it'd be great if it wasn't for what they're publishing on those pages, and that's what bothers me. These children go abroad, or maybe even in the Czech Republic, at the age of 10 to 18 and shoot not only from short guns, now I mean sharp shootings, not airsoft, but they also shoot from long guns, rifles, they also shoot from semi-automatic weapons such as Kalashnikovs, spaghetti, but there are also photographs where mortar grenades or grenade launchers are. And I don't think children between the ages of 10 and 18 should work like that. When you look at their activities, everything is focused on sports physical stress, most often boxing, and I'm a little worried about where it's going, because I don't understand why these trainings are done abroad. I think there would also be people in the Czech Republic who would be able to attend to these children. Because when I look at those pages from 2017, all the kids are wearing cloaking jumpsuits from the Bundeswehr, the German army. We could say it's cheap, so why not buy it. All children have the same sports and other common elements, of course they also have Czech army camouflages, but if you look - and Minister, look at you, and I also tell colleagues who accepted these colleagues as defence committee, or these young guards, or cadets here in the Chamber of Deputies and gave them the rank marks, they elevated them here, which can be seen from these videos and photographs, so their only commander who actually acts as the founder of the BROMLs also wears Ukrainian insignia in uniform. It can be seen both at all events held here in the Czech Republic or around the city and here in the Chamber of Deputies. If you look at the other videos that are there, they have written that they also set up special organizational units, they call it ZVOJ, whose purpose is to further develop tactical, medical and topographical skills. Members of this unit are subject to higher psychological pressure, therefore it is a selection unit, and those interested must fulfil higher physical experience, which occurs according to the tables of the army tests. And then they get the so-called. Red beret. In connection with this, these children are going abroad, again to Ukraine, where they receive parachuting training at the airport, say in the Cernihiv region. And again, according to the sleeve patches of the people involved, there are soldiers of the Ukrainian army or paramilitary units of the Ukrainian army and Czech children aged 10 to 18 years. I suppose someone has to finance it, this kind of activity, because if you're supposed to have uniforms for 70 kids, you're supposed to have tracksuits, T-shirts, hats, pay your way abroad, pay for parachute training, automatic and semiautomatic weapons, it's definitely not free. And I am surprised that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not know anything about these matters, nor is it that the Czech Republic is apparently also being trained by Ukrainian nationals, perhaps former ATO soldiers - Anti-terrorist operations, as you call them, and they do not leave these things to me, Minister. Me from the initial information, and when you look it up, they're dementing some things today that they were playing a certain game, let's say news and another, and that your name, virtually. Your ministry got involved in the game as well as the game that's going on there. It's traceable to their social profile. I would very much like the State Department not to leave these things unnoticed. [[10.30 hours]] I'm sure I'll ask some security forces to deal with this, because it breaks or virtually. Raising a child to fire and a certain combat readiness may seem very good that the child will be ready for service in the army or security forces. Many mothers may applaud the fact that there was finally a brave man who made sure that the child wasn't hanging around the computer and that he was somewhere in the woods or playing with that airsoft gun. But, you know, she also has videos of those little Arabs here on social networks, if you want Muslim children who are eight or ten years old, which is an age of ease of control, firing short guns, or shooting against live targets, and some even cutting off heads. And I would hate for Czech children to be brought up for any violence in this regard - I have nothing against physical preparedness - to have any violence in this regard, because if they would then go to the Army of the Czech Republic or to another Security Corps, and I think we have already had such an example in our history recently that one of the soldiers had marks on his military equipment and equipment components that are unauthorized or are virtually. associated with the worst period of the last century, that is to say, World War II and Nazism. And I know that our attitude is diametrically different in terms of Ukraine's view. To me, Ukraine is a semi-fascist state. And if I've recently read - and it's about two days, three days ago, maybe you'll confirm it to me, maybe you'll disprove that it's not true - Great Britain has banned the Ukrainian trident and placed it among the logos, or, let's say, those markings that are banned in Great Britain, and if someone like that had come and tattooed there, which these men most often do, they don't have permission to enter Great Britain. So I believe that if she wants some of our ministries - and I believe that this applies to some of our ministries - and as I spoke to my colleague Karla Šlechtová yesterday, she said that there were probably some subsidies from the Ministry of Defence. So now I'm gonna ask for the germs, who's paying for it, what the money's being spent on. Because many of you may be doing some youth work. And it gets a grant of CZK 1 000 for the activities, the work of children and youth, or tens of thousands of crowns for the repair or operation of a camp or just buy common T-shirts so you can organize a summer camp run, it's still inclined to go for the mayors, for the captains, for the council of the county, to pray, to make a contribution if you don't have a generous sponsor of this activity, so that you can grow up a few thousand. This is where I see the kids wearing German uniforms. They have Czech uniforms, complete. They have tracksuits. They're wearing sports clothes. They have everything. They don't have white socks yet. They don't have white socks yet. So maybe it's funny. Yes, of course, it's smiling if the Home Office didn't, let's say, pop up when I say it this way, and it didn't forbid the militias, at least as it claimed in April of last year and in the fall of last year. If it didn't happen here and we didn't say no, you mustn't do this, you fathers from families who have been trained in military training and are 45, 50 or more years old and are no longer active in the service of the Army of the Czech Republic or the Security Corps, or just those who consider themselves patriots and say that you don't want to admit some things. We raise children here on the other side. Unfortunately, and I don't think what's written in this group's goals is consistent with what this association is actually doing. Since there is no airsoft shooting, they may be taking place in the territory of the Czech Republic, and maybe just so that it can be fired from sharp weapons, and I don't want to say that people and somewhere in the southeast of Ukraine are going abroad. And I think that the Czech Republic - and for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to my regret you are still the minister, so you should be looking for information on these matters, you should find out if this is really happening. I'm prepared to help you in any way you can. And believe me, I will continue to do some work to see if the State Department has provided any synergies in this matter, even though today it is said that the Ministry does not cooperate here. So much so far all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u59	Thank you. Who's next for the debate? Is the Minister yet a follow-up answer? Yes. The Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček will perform. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u60	Mr President, honourable Members, I can indeed, on the basis of a question by the Member, Ondráček state only that, on the basis of his interpelation, the Ministry verified whether there was any material or financial support registered by the Branné mládeže association. On the basis of the findings that this was not the case, I replied to the honourable Member. And if, of course, the Member comes up with any reasonable information that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs supports this association, I will, of course, be happy to examine the matter once more. As for the activities of this registered association, I think the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not competent to comment on the activities of such a association. I think we have other institutions that should supervise whether or not the law is respected. Perhaps without comments, I will move on to the long-known position of the Member with regard to Ukraine. However, I am glad that we have managed to set up a communication with Ukraine, which primarily deals with practical cooperation. The 1st year of the Czech-Ukrainian Forum will take place next week, where some topics of historical character will also be dealt with. I think it's good to talk about this, but it belongs to historians, not politicians. As for the nature of this country, I think it is possible to look at the results of the elections and judge accordingly. I don't think Ukraine is a semi-fascist state. And I think that, in this regard, the Member should perhaps also devote the same care to Ukraine to violating laws by Czech citizens here who have engaged in fighting on the separatist side of Donbas. In this regard, the Member has long failed to respect or reflect some official position of Czech foreign policy. And I think this is the core of the problem and the core of this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u61	Thank you. Mr Ondráček is reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u62	Well, if that's what you're asking, I didn't want to perform on this. If you were the Foreign Minister who's doing his politics right, you'd be giving the information you're supposed to give. That means objectively, correctly, what's happening on both sides of the conflict. Coming to Mariupol by an army helicopter of Ukraine doesn't mean you know anything about it. Unlike you - I ran it all through the Ukrainian side, at the invitation of the Ukrainian authorities, I drove it through the blockposts, where they ran out of the woods, or those palpostos of men who looked like Ali Baba in German mundurs - or, let's just say, robbers, overgrown, dirty, and aimed at me with a machine gun, just because we were simply on the invitation of Ukraine to monitor the elections to Mariupol. I've been there twice. [[10.40 hours]] When I got back, I brought back so much material I was handing over to the press. Journalists were very happy because at the first meeting, when my colleague and I from the Polish Sejm were there, we discovered the manipulation of the elections and the elections were canceled in Mariupol. We brought the material, Czech television was very happy, or Czech television to be specific, not specifically Czech, but Czech TV - and when they found Mariupol is not under the control of the so-called separatists, but under the control of Ukraine, they said from a position of higher power they were not interested. Just because you're on a helicopter doesn't mean you know anything about it. If you're the Minister of Foreign Affairs and you want to give information objective, then take your senses and courage and take a look at the other side. You're just parroting what someone's telling you somewhere in the market or in the marketplace. And that's just not bad. I, as a Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, who married Ukraine because I was there much sooner than you and I know something about this matter, and since I want this information objective, I was just on both sides of the conflict. And I'm not afraid to go even though they were pointing a machine gun in my eyes and I met the Right Sector several times. Just in Mariupol, where I was at the election. It is not such a problem to go there with the Minister of Defence or the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Ukrainian Government, but you could have included the subject. I, when you mentioned it here, after my return, I was looking forward to telling you five hours about how you were killing Czech weapons there, or letting them kill, or agreeing to women, men and children being killed there. The conflict won't stop there. Fill up what you have to do, give us objective information, and then we don't have to go there. Believe me, I'll go there until the conflict is over.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u63	Thank you. Vojtěch Munzar's factual comment now. Before I give him my word, I'm saying I'm sorry. The Chamber of Deputies apologizes to Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová from 10:30 to 13:00 for work reasons, she is a petitioner in the Senate. Next, Hyťhová Hyťhová from 9am to 11pm for work reasons. Now, Mr Vojtěch Munzar, with a point of fact. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to stand up for the Foreign Minister here a little bit, not in the material part, but I am not sufficiently informed - but in the way your colleague, Mr Ondráček, trains the Minister here from objectivity. This is said by a man who belonged to the official delegation of the Czech Republic in the Donbasa separatist Republic. So I really don't like this kind of training from a person who fits into the role of delegation and goes to these republics in Ukraine that contribute to the conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u65	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now with priority rights Mr. Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček, then Mr. Zdeněk Ondráček. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u66	Mr President, honourable Members, on this objectivity. I, of course, do not draw from one visit and do not personally fit into the role of being an expert on the situation in Ukraine. I draw from a wide range of sources, including the international organisations that we are members of, for example, the OSCE, which, I think, is also very well informed on this issue, given that it has an observation mission in this area. And maybe if she had access to some areas that are currently controlling forces that are not under the control of the Ukrainian government, that information could be more complete. Nevertheless, the information that is being discussed repeatedly in a number of international forums points to a number of war crimes committed by both parties. I think the OSCE is very objective in this regard and is trying to contribute to the resolution of this long-term conflict, which is also the interest of Czech foreign policy. In this respect, I think objectivity is not just to choose one side. Objectivity is in this to look for a way to resolve conflicts, which can simply have security implications for the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u67	Thank you. Now Mr Lipavský factual remark, then Mr Zdeněk Ondráček with a proper application. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to one remark by Minister Petříček, who spoke about meeting the Czech-Ukrainian forum, which will also address some historical issues. So I would very much welcome this forum to address the Stalinist famine that took place in Ukraine between 1932 and 1933, where it is estimated that up to four million people have died. It was a controlled famine from Moscow. In this context, it would be great if Parliament and the Chamber of Deputies could adopt a resolution that this was a crime against humanity and genocide. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u69	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Please take your word for it, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u70	Thank you again, Mr Vice-President. Minister, I fully agree with you. I fully agree with you, because, yes, the person who has information from both sides of the conflict should talk about this matter. I've told you how many times I've been in Ukraine under Ukrainian control. I flew several times to Dnipropetrovsk, today Dnipro, through Zaporozí, to Mariupol and in this area I moved repeatedly. Repeatedly! Then I was on the other side of the conflict where I saw those things. So let's agree with the foreign committee that the Chamber of Deputies will send two, three, four - I don't really care - Members who will go to the Donetsk or Luhanska area, choose that, and do a monitoring mission there. I don't know what you're still afraid of here. Because we're not gonna be the first state to just be there. The Němec go there, the Francouz go there, the Ital go there, the Fin go there. The Republic of Donetsk - and I will say this to Mr Munzar - it is not the separatist Republic of Donetsk, it is the People's Republic of Donetsk, try to look somewhere, maybe you'll look up Wikipedia, which is called that - yes, it's not recognized, so I don't know why it bothers you so much, or anyone who cares so much about what that person will give to whom to honor. I didn't ask for any honors. I went there to see people I just know, and I brought relief aid to the children - and I declared this several times - to children from children's homes whose parents died during this five - year - old nonsense conflict. You deliver weapons, I deliver toys.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u71	Thank you. Now one more factual point in fact by Mr Lipavský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to what Mr Ondráček said. That's probably not quite the job for the Foreign Minister to send the Chamber of Deputies to unrenowned republics, to puppet states. So we've been discussing your trip on the foreign committee, you know that very well, and we've given a fairly clear opinion that we're distancing ourselves. And certainly Members or constitutional officials of the Czech Republic, if they travel to Ukraine, they are to travel there with the agreement and at the invitation of the Ukrainian government. And she made it very clear that she simply doesn't want to travel to occupied territories, i.e. in Crimea, or in a territory that she really doesn't control, because there are now two states under the puppet leadership of the Russian Federation. And since we recognise the legitimate Ukrainian government, of course we must respect that. And maybe you have that information and maybe you don't have it - for example, the Defence Committee is going to Ukraine in order, I think, two months.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u73	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. We ask the Minister if a factual remark is sufficient, because otherwise there are two factual remarks by Zdeněk Ondráček and Pavel Bělobrádek, but I saw your application first. So also a factual remark from the Minister. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u74	I am only briefly in fact, Mr President. As far as the topic is really concerned, I can only say and repeat that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not support the Branné mládeže in material and financial terms. If Mr Ondráček has any reasonable suspicions and has specific information that this has happened, I would like to check this again. [[10.50 hours]] As far as objectivity is concerned, we also have international instruments, perhaps if it is so active, it could push for the OSCE to have access to areas controlled by separatists. As for the delegations of the Chamber of Deputies, it is certainly not within the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to dictate to the Chamber of Deputies where to go or not. And in this I fully respect the sovereignty of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u75	Thank you. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. They'll be ready to -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u76	Plus the toys. Perhaps the Member could also ask for information on humanitarian aid provided by the Czech Republic, including rehabilitation projects for children affected by the conflict. So we certainly don't supply weapons, we also supply humanitarian aid to people affected by the conflict.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u77	Thank you. I'm tolerance alone, Minister. Now Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's factual remark, then Mr Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u78	Yes, Minister, we have a magic Czech language. Yeah, we don't just deliver guns, but we deliver toys. Stop delivering weapons and we don't have to deliver rehabilitation aids because there won't be people without hands, without legs. But that's different. Mr Lipavský, through Mr President. I wasn't talking to the Minister at all. If the Minister had stuck to the subject of interpelation and had not started bringing southeastern Ukraine here, I hadn't talked about the subject at all. I didn't start the topic. When he shoots it because he can't breathe and he has to say it every time he visits the TV that I've been abroad, yeah. And Mr Lipavský through Mr President. Article 26 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic: The Member shall carry out his mandate in person in accordance with the promise, without any ties to any orders. So you command me whatever you want, and I will stick to Article 26 and the promise under the Constitution of the Czech Republic. To Donbas, I'll go to Luhansk until I'm alive and well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u79	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Pavel Bělobrádek's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u80	Thank you. I would like to call not only on Mr President, but also on others to return to the subject of their own interpelation, because that was the association that has some 70 members, if I listened well, and perhaps then we could proceed to what you called for, Mr President, that is to get to the rest of the interpelations. We have a whole line of them, and perhaps it would be good for those who interpelate with their long speeches to be able to allow others to discuss themselves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u81	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm sure I'm leading everyone to the point, but it's complicated. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, also with a factual remark. I also expect your motion for a resolution, Mr President. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u82	To Mr Bělobrádek. Mr. Ambassador, read the list of interpellings. As far as I'm well aware, I have all the interpelations for the absent Prime Minister, so there will be no further discussion, and in four minutes it will be over. If you want a five-minute break, that's fine. I will not make a motion for a resolution. The Minister ran onto a pitchfork unnecessarily, I also said to Mr Lipavský that I do not feel bound by any orders of his committee. I would like the Chamber of Deputies not to go to just one part of Ukraine, but to be interested in both parts of Ukraine or the Ukrainian conflict. As far as the OSCE is concerned, yes, Minister, you are right. There's a big mission in Donetsk, they've got the whole hotel occupied, there's about 1,800 of them, the workers, for very good money. I've spoken to some of them personally, I can see how it works. And they'll answer you. Why aren't you on a mission? Well, because Article 1, 2 of the Minsk Agreement is not being implemented. Why is Article 1, 2 of the Minsk Agreements not being implemented? Well, because the fire didn't stop and the heavy weapons didn't pull back, or those guns over 110 mm from the line line. Why didn't they fall back? Well, because Ukraine didn't withdraw them. So why don't you make - you can twist your head all you want. So why don't you get the Ukrainian side on which you have the influence to withdraw them and fulfill the Minsk agreements? Because we don't want peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u83	There. Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I would like to point out that the factual point is not to be used for factual statements, but to respond to colleagues. Now, therefore, Mr Lipavský factual remark, then Mr Bělobrádek. And I have an ambition to end this interpelation until 11 o'clock. I hope I succeed. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u84	Thank you. I would merely like to point out that the further interpellation of Mrs Olga Richterová concerns housing support, so this is a very serious and important interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u85	So -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u86	Sorry, I'm responding to Mr. Ondráček. So I intercede to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u87	Leave that to me. I know that Mrs Richterová is intersecting something other than other 20 of your colleagues. Mr Bělobrádek has the floor on a factual point. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u88	Thank you, Mr President. To your colleague through you. Well, the fact that the Prime Minister isn't here can still be discussed. You're wrong about that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u89	Of course. Thank you for the lesson for my colleague Ondráček from Mr. Bělobrádek. If there is no resolution, in which case I can terminate the interpelling of Zdeněk Ondráček to Secretary of State Tomáš Petříček. Thank you. I've got another interpellation in front of me. But first, I'll read the apologies from today's meeting. Mr. Adam Vojtěch, Minister of Health, extended his apology from 11 o'clock and Mr. Benešík apologizes for health reasons for the whole day of the meeting. Another intervention on the Prime Minister, who is before us, is that of Mrs Olga Richterová's intervention on the necessary legislative regulation for municipalities implementing comprehensive housing support. Interpelation is submitted as House press 709. I'm opening the debate. Mrs Richterová is reporting for the debate, so I will give her the floor. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u90	Thank you for the floor. It is an interpelation where I asked the Prime Minister actually about the government's programming statement, in which the plan was to address some legal norm that, at the moment, especially for younger people, but also for people of all ages, there is a great burning problem with housing and its availability. This is called necessary legislative regulation for municipalities implementing comprehensive housing support, and I would like to ask for its interruption, because the topic of municipal costs and cooperation between municipalities and the state is extremely important. I therefore request an interruption to the Prime Minister's presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u91	Thank you. It is a procedural proposal that we will vote on without debate. I'm going to unsubscribe you all, and I'm asking you for a new registration. Log in with your ID cards. We will decide on Mrs Richterová's procedural proposal in the vote number one hundred and sixty-nine, which I have not started yet, because I have few entries. [[Members are returning to the ballroom.]] We already have the necessary number according to the Rules of Procedure. I have begun voting number 169 and I ask who is in favour of interrupting this point. Who's against it? Voting order number 169, from 83 in favour of 44, against 1. The motion was accepted. We've interrupted press conference 709. We're good to go. In front of us is the interview of Jan Pošvář to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš according to the House press 710. This is an intervention concerning the participation of the Prime Minister in the Chamber of Deputies. I'm opening the debate. If Mr Pošvář is excused, the interpellation will fall under the Rules of Procedure. I'll open another interpellation. This is an interpelation of Ondřej Profant to the Prime Minister on the same matter. I'm asking my colleague Profant if he's checking in. With priority rights, he will be overtaken by the chairman of the MP's club. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u92	Thank you for the floor. vážený Vice-President. I've applied before. I wanted to propose a procedure for bringing the debate on those points together, just as I announced it, as I promised.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u93	Well, I understand. So let me specify your proposal. It's an interpelation under number... all the interpellations to the Prime Minister about his presence, meaning 711 to those... Sorry. 729, yes? [[He's looking in the background.]] I've started voting 170. I said, who's in? [[There are voices from the diaper.]] Merging the debate on these points because they are completely identical. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 170. From the present 183 pros, against no one. The motion was accepted. I made it to 11 o'clock. That concludes point 291.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u94	Hello, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government. Now we would be dealing with fixed points. Paragraph 280, establishment of an investigation committee, paragraph 285, final report on OKD. Then we would continue with the next points from the first reading block. It is now time for the Members to present a possible speech to amend the programme approved by the 40th meeting. Mrs Langšádlová wants to speak to this point. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask you, on the basis of the negotiations that have taken place here, and on the basis of the promise of the President of the ANO, Mr Faltýnek, to support the establishment of a permanent committee on hybrid threats at the next meeting, so I would like to propose that the committee of inquiry be removed from the agenda of this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-001-291.u96	Thank you. Is there any other proposal to change the agenda? It's not. I therefore called Members and Members to the Chamber. I ask for peace of mind so that everyone knows what we are voting on. We will vote on the fact that paragraph 280, House Press 1778, the establishment of a committee of inquiry, will be excluded from the agenda of this meeting. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 171. 125 Members registered, for 122, against no one. We've disabled this point. Now we're going to look at point number
