ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u1	336. Government bill amending Act No. 22/1997 Coll., on Technical Requirements for Products and on Amendment and Supplement to Certain Acts, as amended, and Act No. 90/2016 Coll., on the assessment of conformity of specified products when making them available on the market, as amended /German press 644/ - third reading I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček for taking up his seat at the rapporteur's table, and I will ask Mr Leo Luzar, the rapporteur of the guarantee economic committee, to take up his seat at the rapporteur's table. The motion for rejection or amendments has not been tabled at second reading, so I can ask the applicant, Vice-President of the Government, whether he is interested in speaking before the opening of the debate at third reading. Mr Vice-President - that is not the case, in which case I am opening a debate for which I have no application, but I see an application from the point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u2	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. I'm not going to describe the details of the law or the novel, I think it's familiar to everyone. I just want to say that the pirate effort to change the Czech state's approach to technical standards has been going on for more than six years, and I really appreciate that during this parliamentary term it has been agreed. I think it appreciates tens of thousands of businessmen, craftsmen, entrepreneurs, etc. At the same time, I would like to very much appreciate the approach of the Office for Technical Standardization, Metrology and State Testing, as well as the Czech Standards Agency, with which we discussed this in detail during the entire parliamentary term, and there was a very positive constructive approach to our proposals and it was very well arranged for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u3	I thank Mr Jiránek and ask if anyone is joining the debate. I see no one, so I am done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. This is not the case, in which case we can proceed to the procedure for voting. I'll ask the rapporteur to clarify the procedure. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on this proposal, the procedure is very simple. We will vote on the bill as a whole, the resolution of the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u5	It's simple. I don't think we need to approve the procedure, given that there were no legislative technical comments at third reading, and in that case we can vote on the law as a whole. I'll rejoin and invite my colleagues and colleagues to the O.R. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 22/1997 Coll., on Technical Requirements for Products and on Amendment and Supplement to Certain Acts, as amended, and Act No. 90/2016 Coll., on the assessment of conformity of specified products when making them available on the market, as amended, pursuant to House Press 644." [[10.20 hours]] I've started voting number 159 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 159. Of the 94th for 85, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank the Vice-President of the Government, the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, thank you to the rapporteur and I finish point 336. A colleague of Michálek, out of priority-rights points. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I deeply apologize to you, and in particular I apologize to the Minister and all the others who are patiently waiting here, however, given the crisis epidemiological situation where today we have 3,000 cases, we have Friday and we have an explosion of the Coronavirus case, there is a danger of overloading health care and shutting down the economy again. The number of patients is growing exponentially, while the test sites are not growing linearly, which means that the system can collapse within a few days, so we cannot afford a few more, three more days over the weekend of inactivity, and I wanted to ask for a break at our membership club meeting for 45 minutes so that we can propose concrete measures on what to do about it now that we can still do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u7	Forty-five minutes. That means we'd meet at 11.05. In that case, I'm declaring a break for the Pirate Club meeting by 11.05 pm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I greet you all. We'll continue after the break. It's 11:05. The President of the Pirates Club Jakub Michálek is reporting for the priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, let me thank you for your indulgence. And I think it's polite to report what we've come to. We decided at the Pirates Parliamentary Club that we are setting up a crisis crew of the MP who will prepare measures - virtually. some have already been processed - which we will present at the press conference at 14:00 today, so that the government will urgently start dealing with the situation with coronavirus, thus preventing the collapse of health care and the shutdown of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u10	Thank you. The President of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka reports with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u11	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, given the developments and yesterday's figures that have been published, I appreciate the fact that the Minister of Health has come to the House today, too. And it would probably be very good if he did, too, because here in the media space, there are various reports that he may be set up, or maybe a central crisis crew is not set up, a large part of the Members of the Chamber of Deputies are calling for him, the chieftains are calling for him, calling for the government. Now the information leaks that perhaps even the advice that the Prime Minister is running is discussing. Perhaps the Minister should tell us where the threshold for setting up a crisis crew is from the point of view of the number of infected. Is it 3,000, or is it 5,000 for you, or are you waiting for 7,000 or 10,000? Because the increases are really exponential. And I would really like the government not to put it off so that it takes the situation seriously, so that what goes on from the captains - and the captains are primarily members of the members and politicians of the ANO or the ČSSD movement today, so that serious measures are presented. I don't think it's appropriate to cause panic, on the other hand, to downplay it and say that we shouldn't pursue it, and we're supposed to discuss the law of gardening, that's certainly not the case either. We are ready, as I have declared repeatedly over the past few weeks, to send our deputy, doctor, MP Vítek Kaňkovský to the crisis staff. I think his functioning worked out well there. And I'm just going to remind the situation, besides the number that's ringing, over 3,000 positive yesterday, that's what reports come from people who stand in line for hours, and now they're saying they're going to wait for a few more hours because some part of the system collapsed into which the data from the tested ones are then inserted. But I just want to remind you that one infected person is about 4.6 contact, which regional hygiene workers must contact. On average. Maybe the Minister will fix me. Yesterday's number 3,130 of the infected is equal to 17,500 necessary contacts that need to be implemented during tracking and quarantine. And in the middle of the county sanitation station managed 7,500 of these calls and contacts per day. If the numbers are wrong, Minister, please correct me. That means we're at an extreme testing capacity, but we're in a hurry to track down and it's too late for those people to have information about being quarantined, because there's a lot of people who go there for preventative reasons to get tested, and that information is very important to them too. So it would be good to have some clear information here about the next procedure. The situation is quite serious, we can't downplay it, it can have fatal effects on education, etc. My colleague Vítek Kaňkovský said that if we get to the number 2,600 tested positive per day, this is the border that, with the onset of the development of the covid, is also the border for the subsequent capacity of health establishments. So I would very much like the Minister, the Prime Minister, to take a stand, not to refer us to other topics, and to tell not only us, but, above all, the people responsible in those regions, such as the authorities, but also as hospital directors, such as the directors of major races, what will be the next step. And I would also be interested in such things as how representatives of Czech nanotech companies, their concrete proposals, which were here not only from the point of view of delivery of the subpoena, but they were proposals which aimed to ensure better health equipment from the point of view of protective materials, UV filters, which would generally reduce the covido load, or other viruses, in those areas, etc. I have information from these people that it has been submitted to ministerial servants, but no further has been done systematically with these things. So I would very much like the Minister of Health to speak to the general public about the next steps that the government will take in the next few hours and days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u12	Thank you. I don't see anyone else logged in with priority rights. Mr. Health Minister reporting. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u13	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately I did not expect this point to be included because we have been debating this situation, I think, for quite a long time on Wednesday, so I was surprised yesterday and with colleagues -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u14	I'm just gonna interrupt you. It's not an entry point. It is merely a discussion within the framework of priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u15	Oh, sorry. Okay. Anyway, of course the situation isn't going well, I already said that on Wednesday. The fact is, according to these models, they're even higher than we expected a few days ago, so we're probably going to have to respond to that with other measures. I wouldn't want to say them here from the counter right now, but what's important is that we certainly need to address the question primarily in the capital of Prague, the issue of protection for hospitals and social services providers, so we will implement certain regime measures within these facilities. The situation is definitely the worst in Prague from our point of view even in terms of e.g. the intervention of vulnerable groups, etc., so it is now a great task for us to deal with the situation in Prague urgently, although of course we also monitor other regions. I think this will also be reflected in the published updated traffic light, which we will publish this afternoon and where all citizens will actually see how the situation is developing and where the risk of spreading the disease and the community spread of the disease is greatest. [[11.10 hours]] I think this will also be reflected in the published updated traffic light, which we will publish this afternoon and where all citizens will actually see how the situation is developing and where the risk of spreading the disease and the community spread of the disease is greatest. As far as the numbers are concerned, we also need to look at the number of tests. Here I have information about, even though it is always happening, that yesterday there was a record number of tested people, highly over 20,000, somewhere around 22,000 tests, so that the increase may not be so significant, because we simply have increased the number of tests, so even if we actually have two 3,000 positive cases, we will see a percentage of how this is going to develop. But I don't want to downplay that, I'm just saying that yesterday we had a record number of tested cases, and we're definitely going to publish these data. As far as tracking is concerned, as I mentioned on Wednesday, training for other people entering the sanitary service is already taking place this week to help track. Some have already joined these days who have been trained, so we are dealing with this so that we really keep increasing the capacity. What is important from my point of view, and I would like to say that we really need to view this as a priority, and I also mentioned it on Wednesday, is the question of preparing hospitals. The preparation of hospitals, the preparation of capacities, we are working very hard on this with colleagues, with Professor Černý as head of professional society, but also with others. We're communicating with the county. I consider this to be an absolute priority at the moment, so that hospitals are clearly prepared for this, so that clear scenarios are prepared, so that hospitals can actually implement them in, say, worst-case scenario, limiting, for example, elective care, excluding other beds needed, etc. So that's our top priority now, which we work together with our colleagues, so that we can be prepared for a wave of a higher number of hospitalized ones. At this point, there is not yet any overload in the capacity of hospitalization care, but we must be prepared for this, so we clearly have those scenarios and implement them in cooperation with experts. This is also true for the medical emergency service, which is connected to the information system of infectious diseases - ISIN, from which they can draw information about the free capacities in individual hospitals, so that it is clear which patient is to be directed to. So I'm sure all these things are working very hard. The scripts are on the table and we'll be ready for these events. I hope that the anti-epidemiological measures that we have put in place and which we continue to implement will lead to the flattening of the epidemiological curve. It doesn't look like it yet, of course, that's what we have to say. But once again, I would like to ask all citizens to really respect the anti-epidemiological measures that have been set up, which, even today, some of them, are coming into effect, because without complying with the basic rules, we are not really able to cope with the epidemiological situation and to flatten the curve. So much for that, I guess. Believe that we are doing this very intensively every day, and with experts we deal with this, with epidemiologists, with clinical experts, with laboratory experts, and we will, of course, inform the public about this at regular press conferences, yesterday you could actually see one of those press conferences, which I think was very open, very transparent. And we want to continue this communication with the public because I think he has the right to know the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u16	Well, thank you, Minister. Mr. President Jurečka and Mr. Vice-President of the ODS Club Marek Benda are also registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u17	Thank you, Minister, for getting out. However, I wanted to ask if the numbers I said here in terms of the numbers tested, in terms of the numbers contacted and the fact that the tracking capacity in the last few days has completely ceased to cope with the situation, whether you can confirm it or disprove whether I was wrong or wrong. Then I want to ask you again and again when, as Minister of Health, a responsible member of the government, the line is when you will finally want the Central Crisis Staff to be activated. You really didn't answer that, a lot of people care. A large part of the Members have called for this, even though a few votes have not been passed. And then I want to ask you, I'm getting written by field people now, and maybe it's already in the media space that they're not taking people for sampling at the moment because they've collapsed the system of registering a clever quarantine, so they can't register them for the collection because the system of smart quarantine doesn't work. And please, nicely, try to say specifically, aside from the general declarations that you're working on it, that you're going to strengthen the capacity from the side, I don't know, the army, from the other branches of the state, or where these people are going to get married. Because it's got to be a big increase in people who can help in contacting these people and tracking them. So if you can specify that. And otherwise, of course, I wish that we all remain negative, but remain positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u18	Thank you. Vice-President of ODS Club Marek Benda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u19	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have presented here this morning one of our initiatives, which I am giving, say, free of charge. In my opinion, the problem is that today we have a shortage of places where we can even take samples for tests and that it would be very worthwhile - and yesterday, as far as I know, with all the votes and the Prague Council - to extend it to pharmacies that will be able and willing to do so. I think it would be a relatively simple measure, legislatively it is when so prepared, I will make it available, we are ready to support it in some very short time. I consider this to be good not only in relation to Prague, but especially in relation to non-Prague regions, where the pharmacy is in much more places than any hospitals are able to take samples. I would very much like the Ministry of Health to think about this and, if necessary, in some accelerated regime, allow this to happen. I would consider this to be useful and expanding test capacities across the country, especially if there are any more rapid tests, it could make everything much faster and undoubtedly in pharmacies mostly employed by people who have some basic medical, pharmaceutical education, which means that they could do so without any major problems. It would not be an obligation, but whoever is able to do so, who has the space for it, could do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u20	Thank you. The Minister of Health has applied for the floor with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u21	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm here to try to respond to what has been said. As far as the tracking capacity is concerned, I was talking about it. Of course, we use the army, we use the medications, we use the students of other medical disciplines, we use customs officials, so currently around 200 other people are being trained, some of whom have already joined, some of whom are entering the tracking process these days. We're ready to raise those capacities as much as we need to. So we really deal with this every day in this regard, and every day we train new people to help health services increase. There are also some private entities who are ready to provide their capacities, for example, to trained operators and the like, so this is happening and will take place because the increases are now actually significant. As far as the question of collapse or malfunction is concerned, the failure of the electronic demand system, that is true, I have the information from my colleagues today. We're very active about this. It's not certain whether it's a mistake or a cyber attack, so right now, colleagues are working very hard to restore the system. Unfortunately, we can't rule out the other option either. So much for that. Otherwise, of course, people who come to the sampling point will be taken away and there is no problem in this regard. On the issue of the Central Crisis Staff, this will be discussed by the government on Monday, so it will be decided on Monday, so I wouldn't want to anticipate until then. It will be at the government's meeting, and the government will stand up to it, and it will certainly present that position. So much for that. I'm sure we can work this out. We perceive the demand of the regions as well, in fact the Regional Association was meeting yesterday, so on this basis, after some debate at the Council of Government for Health Risks, which we led today, the government will focus on it on Monday, i.e. setting up a central crisis staff. I hope these are the basic answers to Mr Jurečka's questions. As for Mr Benda and the question of involving pharmacies in the removal, it is certainly an interesting idea, even though it is not quite so simple, although it may seem so, to do the right swab from the rhinophagus, you know that it is not pleasant, who has undergone it, and to make the swab right, it requires some practice. But thank you for the suggestion, I'm sure we'll check it out and analyze whether it's possible or not. We will contact the Czech Pharmacy Chamber. As for the number of sampling points, we currently have 123 sampling points in the Czech Republic. We're still increasing the numbers. The negotiations are currently under way for example in Prague to open three more sampling points, so let's say there are 21, 22 sampling points here, so we are still responding to the situation and we are setting up new sampling points. When we look at the comparison with spring, the numbers are absolutely incomparable, both in terms of sampling points and, of course, in terms of real tests, which I think is visible on the data we publish. So much for me. I hope I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u22	Thank you. President Jurečka with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u23	Thank you. Minister, my very last simple question. Will you, as Minister of Health, be the person responsible for the entire health area throughout the Czech Republic, the protection of public health, propose the activation and establishment of the Central Crisis Staff on Monday? Because such a general floscule about the government discussing it and so on, I don't think it's fair to the captains, to the people, to the professional public that works in that system. So tell me, are you gonna design it or not gonna design it? You're the Minister of Health, you have an opinion. Will you vote in favour? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u24	Minister with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u25	But they're not floscules. It's for the government to decide. I think it's correct for the debate to take place on the government and then for us to present it to the public on Monday. I don't think it's just fair to say any opinions around here. I think there should be a government debate on all aspects of how this Central Crisis Staff is to be built, who is to be represented there, and on Monday the government will decide. So I would really leave this to the government right now. The government will decide, and then we'll definitely present it to the public. I don't see any twisting or anything like that. I think it's fair to discuss it first on the government's platform, and then to convey some consensual common position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u26	Thank you. Mr Miroslav Kalousek with priority rights and will be prepared with priority rights by Mr Luzar. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u27	Enough, Minister, please. This is too serious a discussion for us not to have an adult debate here. I agree that no one but the government can decide this, but the government must propose it and defend its member. You're the Minister of Health, we're in this situation right now, and we think we have every right from the Minister of Health to hear whether he'll propose to the government to set up a crisis crew and defend him or not. Can you answer nicely, or are you so cowardly that you can't even say that?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u28	Member Luzar. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would not like this debate to fall into line in arguments. It began with the words stated by colleagues from the Pirate Party that the Czech Republic is in huge danger of a collapse of health care, that there is a risk of a collapse of collection points. I would like to say here that if this information is and is true, we are in a crisis. But I am not convinced that this information is true, that there is a risk of a breakdown in health care. And who can decide that? Well, the Minister of Health, the government. I disagree with the Minister of Health here. As a KSČM we strongly advocate that decisions be made where the decision is to be made, not here in this space, but in the area of government, and not until Monday, but perhaps today, if the crisis situation actually occurs. I heard here from the Minister's mouth that there may have been a cyber security breach. When words like that come out of his mouth here on a microphone, what's the other reason but to call a crisis crew of the government to handle it? And not Monday, today, because for three days citizens will live in uncertainty about what's really going on. Therefore, if anyone is to act on the basis of any relevant data, it is not this Chamber of Deputies, which has the right only to propose to the government, but an executive body, that is, the government as a whole should adopt a clear radical solution. Is the situation in the Czech Republic so serious and is the safety and health of citizens at risk? And we don't have an answer. [[11.30 hours]] So I would call here if there should be a call for the government to come before the citizens today and disprove or confirm the things that have been said here by the pirát. Because it is absolutely irresponsible to shout out that there is a lack of healthcare capacity and that there is a risk of a breakdown in health care, and that there is no basis for this. And I ask the government today to decide whether the situation in the Czech Republic is so serious that it requires a crisis crew or a Central Crisis Staff, or whether the government thinks it doesn't require this condition. This should be a final appeal, and this House should, if you wish, contribute at least by allowing this government to react. But I say again, we want a clear answer for the KSČM and we want a clear answer if it is necessary for the Central Crisis Staff to be called today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-18-ps2017-058-04-002-336.u30	Thank you. I don't see anyone else logged in with priority rights, so we're going to discuss a point.
